ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.59 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on Italy's position in the framework of the common European defence strategy and on the deployment of the Italian military contingent in Libya, to which Senator Pinotti will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions about Italy's position in the framework of the common European defence strategy. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u6	AMATI (PD). Mr President, Madam Minister, the construction of a common European defence is a very topical issue, highlighting the close connection between internal security issues for individual Member States and security issues at Union and global level. The European region is more unstable and less secure than in the past: crises within and outside the borders of the European Union are impacting directly on the lives of European citizens, whose demand for greater security is renewed with increasing force. The threats to be addressed are complex in their nature and vast geographically, and none of the European States have the necessary forces and resources to implement effective law enforcement. To this end, it appears necessary to adopt a flexible and articulated approach also in terms of coordination of diplomatic, military, economic, financial and informational instruments, also sharing the modalities and strategies for their implementation. The need for enhanced cooperation and a common plan on European defence is becoming increasingly urgent. There is no longer time for uncertainty and a coordinated response is needed to exploit the potential of European forces in a synergistic way. Minister, the Government has recently sent the report on the overall strategy for the European Union's foreign and security policy to the Chambers and, therefore, we ask you to report on the national expectations and the Italian contribution to the possible developments of the European defence strategy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u9	MARTON (M5S). Madam Minister, I would like to ask the first question as a citizen, even before being a Member of Parliament: can we plan a common European defence when Europe has not yet achieved that unity and those objectives set out in the founding treaties, when we have not yet reached a social Europe, a Europe that improves the lives of its citizens? How can we trust, entrust our security and give national sovereignty in defending our borders to a Europe still contaminated by territorial interests, in which we use an austerity policy in an instrumental way to benefit countries at the expense of others (see Germany)? We are a non-nuclearist country by constitution, we have committed ourselves with so much as a nuclear non-proliferation treaty not to produce, hold and use nuclear weapons. How could we be consistent with this principle by joining in a common defence with countries such as France and Germany, which produce nuclear weapons? Who guarantees us that we too will not be obliged to pursue policies of nuclear re-armament, within the framework of a common defence policy with other partners? How does this common defence affect our laws, our values and our foreign policy choices? We are already within NATO, which, despite losing its raison d'être, binds us around the world to wage wars. Besides, who are our partners? With the Brexit also the scenario changes. By losing London, the European Union loses one of the two military powers with a seat on the UN Security Council. France remains - it is true - with its national intentions and with a foreign policy that is often not shared by our partners, especially with us. How would decision-making work? Many nodes remain in the background, which should be dissolved immediately with a serious parliamentary debate and should be done before expressing international enthusiasm or triumphalist attitudes. When are we gonna do this?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u12	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Madam Minister, the construction of a common European defence took the first steps in Bratislava last September. The meeting was a first step towards the concrete implementation of the plan set out in the Treaties and the overall strategy of the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy on how, of course, to strengthen European defence cooperation. As part of the process of concrete implementation of the defence policy, Madam Minister, you are going to present an Italian proposal to the European Parliament on this matter. I therefore ask you within the Italian paper what the role of Italy is. Is Italy guaranteed a key role in the defence strategy of the Mediterranean basin, also considered the primary role of our country in the management of migratory flows? Finally, the withdrawal of Britain from Community bodies will probably have different impacts on European defence and security. What can be the repercussions for Italy in the context of the common defence policy arising from the exit of Britain from the European Union?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u15	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam Minister, I would like to know whether the Government does not consider the sighting of two Russian bombers on the skies of Brittany or nearby an act that shows a serious deterioration in relations with Russia; whether it does not consider this to be in any way a reaction to the pressure of NATO's weapons and exercises at the borders with Russia; whether it considers that this cold war tension - the newspapers write - between Europe and Russia does not divert us from the common objective, namely the battle against terrorism and ISIS in Syria, where the Russian allies carry out deprecable actions such as the bombing of hospitals and civilians; but we consider there allied an al-Nusra organization that here we say we are terrorist as al-Qaeda, of which it is also an affiliate. I wonder whether the government is not going to start a debate on this in Parliament too, perhaps with a special session on foreign policy, since the world framework is clearly changing and tensions are multiplying.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u18	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam Minister, since both diplomacy and Italian defence seem to believe in the prospects of the so-called European defence, which has even been spoken of since the beginning of the 1950s, although little has been realized concretely; because the spread of national interests of the main countries of the European Union is evident in many theaters, since the perception of the threat has characteristics profoundly different from country to country; for it is also evident that competition in extremely sensitive theatres such as the Mediterranean and the Balkans, but above all - as Mr Mineo has explained - is problematic at the borders of the Russian Federation, I would ask how the Minister images can promote effective European integration in the field of defence that does not deprive our country of its military sovereignty, but above all the ability to assert its interests also in areas where there is no effective convergence with our country's partners.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u21	Tarquinio (CoR). Minister, it seems paradoxical to me to discuss the common European army; it failed in 1952 for the opposition of the various European Parliaments. Today it becomes ridiculous, a waste of time compared to a Europe that risks imploding within itself for many other reasons. This is also a sign of a European crisis. It seems to me, therefore, that time has been wasted. It is necessary, in fact, to think of strengthening our military forces, certainly not with atomic weapons, because I believe that they are being treated very badly (then on Libya I will say something else). We must defend what is possible. We are a pacifist nation, which does not love war, but every nation has the right to defend itself. NATO's umbrella will also disappear. Have you seen the UK's decision to leave the body that judges war crimes and military actions; have you read it? It means to have free hands, it means that various countries will have free hands. I do not know what awaits us from here to a few years because, unfortunately, if something serious has been done by the European Union, it has been to prevent the usual disruptions within Europe that have caused world disasters and wars. That's the real thing, but now it's all blowing away. Are we talking about the European army when there are walls and barbed wires? What are we talking about? Why are we not talking about all this and why is the Italian Government pursuing a useless path instead of thinking - trying to look at ourselves first - that Italy has the right to have a normal army, that does not depend on others? We have very high technology, which we often sell; we have men and intelligence. It is also necessary to review, if possible, the problem of having not the so-called naja, but something more: an army, of course, more numerous, because the times we fear may come could be very heavy. Hence the request of a Government that must be much more lucid and more attentive to how the world evolves. It seems to me that we are totally outside, beyond the fact that an army of this kind, at this moment, would be in conflict with NATO. Let us prepare ourselves because the United States too will completely abandon Europe, so either we will be able to defend our borders, our legitimate interests, or we will be outside. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Defence, Senator Pinotti, has the power to respond jointly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u22	Mr President, I have listened carefully to the questions; I have seen that there are also discordant opinions within the questions themselves, but I believe that we are dealing here with an issue which, apart from differences of opinion, is certainly central to the debate that is taking place today in Europe. It is true that we are not talking about European defence today; in fact, immediately after the Second World War the founding fathers of Europe had begun to talk about this issue, and we also know why there have been setbacks, never for the responsibility of Italy, which has always had a European attitude on this issue. Today, however, this issue comes back on track and there is a new focus and also a new tension on the part of several European states to assess the possibility of building a common path. Even in the Bratislava debate, not everyone felt the same way: there were nations, such as France and Germany, with which Italy immediately dialogued, very much inclined to make progress; there were others, like some Eastern countries, more worried however that there were escapes forward. Therefore, the debate is open, but it is a construction site where I think it would be very wrong not to make the Italian voice heard. I fully agree with the intervention and demand of Senator Amati, while I would like to say to Senator Tarquinio that no one has ever spoken - at least I have never, others yes, but not in Italy - of the European army; no one is thinking of dismantling the national armed forces in order to build a European army. We are talking about a European defence, which is different: it means, that is, not to abandon what we have, but to make synergistic and to put together what we have, because, as you say, it does not mean that the United States will always be present in the theatres of crisis for security. It is right, therefore, that Europe should have a synergistic capacity to intervene, not in contrast to NATO. Moreover, there is virtually an almost complete overlap: not all of them, but many of the European Union's states are in NATO and vice versa. It would therefore be a mistake to imagine it as something in contrast, because it is certainly complementary. For two and a half years, that is, since I held the position of Minister of Defence, European defence meetings have always been held with the Secretary-General of NATO. And it is clear that a Europe that knows how to implement shared strategies even within NATO can have a certain weight, with its own voice and with its own capacity, compared to each individual country. You know that we are talking about this because concrete facts are taking place: the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy has presented a comprehensive European strategy on defence and security issues and this acceleration is certainly also due to the shock of Brexit. The United Kingdom is certainly a very important country in terms of defence and the British wanted to say right away, at a bilateral meeting with me, but also in Bratislava (where the British Minister was present), that the United Kingdom decided to leave the European Union, but not Europe. With regard to the issues of defence, in the meeting that I had a few days after Brexit, the British Minister intended to say that his country intends to continue all the ongoing collaborations, including the presence in the European mission EUNAVFOR Med, on which it wants to invest more by putting another ship. This is to say that we must and can continue to speak with the United Kingdom on this issue, but certainly now Europe is called upon to make such reasonings so that at the end of this path the United Kingdom will still be outside the European Union. With regard to the emphasis made by Senator Bianconi, who wondered how much European defence will hold to mind the issue of security that comes to us from the Mediterranean in which we are immersed, I must say that is certainly the main scenario in which Europe will have to move its strategy and understand its interventions. What is being discussed in concrete terms other than the European army and the dismantling of national defences? Already today, Defense always acts in an interdependent way; we act in organisations such as NATO, the UN and the European Union and it is very difficult for there to be interventions that do not have a large group of organisations; the only example at this time is that of the hospital in Libya, but because it is a very specific intervention explicitly required of Italy. However, in the missions we always operate within international organizations. Strengthening at European level the ability to react at operational level (because there is no doubt that so far we have seen many delays) is a necessity that increases the possibilities of security and does not affect, Senator Divine, national sovereignty. It is clear that every nation will decide, as already happens in the various missions: we participate in missions of NATO and the European Union within coalitions, but it is always the country that decides whether and at what level to participate, there are no transfers of sovereignty. The proposal that we presented at the Bratislava Summit and that the Members of the European Parliament have asked me to go and explain - and I shall therefore go forward - is simple, but it can be effective and has found a broad consensus in the debate in Bratislava. Italy proposes that a genuine European defence strategy be defined at the political and institutional level as a plan for implementing the security and defence aspects contained in the overall European strategy. In fact, without a clear definition of the objectives to be achieved it becomes difficult to prepare the correct instruments of action. There is also a strengthening of the defence dimension, because you know that there is not even a formal place where defence ministers meet: the forum is an informal forum. Even within the European Parliament, it is only a subcommittee that is concerned with defence. So it is clear that if we want to strengthen, the European political level must also be encouraged. What can be done, however, at the operational level? Meanwhile, the decisions already taken at the 2013 and 2015 European Councils, which have not yet been implemented, on the development of joint missions and on the capacity to implement them, must be implemented quickly. Secondly, a permanent centre must be set up to plan and manage, at strategic and unitary level, all operations of the European Union's missions. For example, today, the center of the mission European union naval force Mediterranean (EUNAVFOR Med), that is the place where it is thought and planned, is located in Italy, near the operating command of interforce summit (COI). We therefore think it is right that, for European missions, a place should always be codified where these activities can be planned, sharing a path for common military training and training, sharing the forces and capabilities of the Member States, in order to achieve greater integration of our instruments of action. The European Treaties already allow us, in accordance with Articles 42 and 46 of the Treaty on European Union, permanent structured cooperation. This means that it is not necessarily necessary for all 28 countries of the Union to agree, but if some agree and want to pool capacities, they can do so. Let me give you a concrete example, which took place during the Italian Presidency of the European Semester. [[Call the president back.]] We have put together nine European countries for air transport: each European nation does not have such a capacity, in case it should make a very wide mobilization, to have all the necessary air carriers. By signing this Treaty we have not lost our capacity, but we have increased it, because if we need it, we will be able to ask all the other signatory States to provide us with their carriers and the same thing the other States can do to us. In conclusion, there is also a whole part about industry, on which we have presented an important non-paper, because we think that the ability to be autonomous, at European level, at industrial level, in such important areas is crucial to managing security independently. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u23	You have one more minute: I invite you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u24	Mr Pinotti, Minister for Defence. So, from this point of view, we have put forward proposals on technological research and tax incentives for European projects that have been transposed. I would therefore have no problems or concerns. Our armed forces are highly esteemed in the world because they are capable, but it is certain that for the challenges ahead - as Senator Amati also said - we can only imagine an answer that is of European dimension. Whatever challenge we are talking about, terrorism or even migration, it is impossible for each State alone to respond directly. I forgot to answer the question asked by Senator Mineo, because he came a little out of the subject that had been assigned. Senator Mineo, you know that Italy has always acted and will continue to do so, because you do not believe that the cold war climate is useful and because we know that Russia is fundamental to resolving certain crises, such as the Syrian crisis, which is dramatic. Having said that, we are undoubtedly witnessing an escalation. But what we have always done and will continue to do is try to bring everyone back to dialogue tables. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They have the right to answer questions for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u27	AMATI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the clarification she has given. We are absolutely aware of the difficulty of this operation, so important and long in time, that it has sincerely marked so many difficulties in the past. However, I am equally convinced that if we do not act together on such complex issues, we will hardly be able to have an effective force. So, I hope that our government can achieve the most.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u30	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, Minister, you have been able to answer even Senator Mineo, who has gone off the subject, but you have given no answer to any of my questions: you have managed to dribble them in an incredible way. It seems to me that you are operating at European level in a context in which you are not interested in defence itself, but in the Italian war industry. He said that with France and Germany there is an incredible communion of intent. I have the impression that you have made a sort of balance between costs and benefits in terms of industrial returns, but you have never and never put the rights of European citizens before everything. I regret this and hope that in the near future I will be able to answer the questions I have asked you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u33	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answers you have given. In my opinion, you have a very clear concrete vision of the geopolitical challenges we face. The world has totally changed and is in great evolution. We do not know what will happen in America shortly and what will be the consequences for European defence. Thank you for your attention and, above all, for your concrete vision of defence policies in Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u36	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that you consider the task of sewing with Russia to be crucial and that you consider the role that Russia can play with us in Syria to be very important. However, I would like to say to you, first of all, that this is not out of the question, nor can the crisis with Russia be out of the question when it comes to European defence. Secondly, I would have liked to know what the government will do to alleviate these tensions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u39	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, we would not like to appear as the advocates of European defence because we realize that if we have not been able to combine anything for more than sixty years, there will be a reason. We are, in fact, in natural competition on the defence front. You have touched on the industry in which we produce aircraft and helicopters, which we sell in competition with European partners. If we were to choose a unitary defence system, we would have to decide which weapons to choose and who will have to close. As far as membership of NATO is concerned, I would remind you that it has made a disaster in the Mediterranean: it has freed North Africa from dictators, but it has left a total destabilisation. It seems that Syria is about to do the same thing. Russia is buffering and fighting on that front. We have completely different interests; so, thinking of a common defence system, it is good to put forces together, but it must be said that there are national interests that cannot be overcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u42	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, Minister, sincerely your answer completely skips the political problem that the European Union is going through. It seems anachronistic to me to talk about a common defence policy, since we are not talking about an army. Minister, let us not lie: the French, the British and the Americans, but especially the French, when they speak neither with NATO nor with Europe. This is the fact, which is already present before and which today is even more so. Do we want to pretend we don't see him? We'll talk about it later when we deal with Libya. Keep not seeing. That's not possible! The first real problem is not to embark on this road: or we really create a united Europe - the United States of Europe did not manage to do it, and I think we will no longer be able to see the reality of the nationalisms that are exploding everywhere and in any case beyond our problems - or we are out. Let's think about us. I'll ask you a question about the rules of engagement. You have to tell me in detail what our military can do in Libya.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u43	Let us now turn to questions about the deployment of the Italian military contingent in Libya, to which the Minister of Defence, Senator Pinotti, will reply. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u46	Mr Manassero (PD). Mr President, Minister, the situation in Libya is increasingly worrying, because the seriousness of the crisis affects a strategic area for the balance of the Mediterranean and has very serious consequences on the flow of migrants arriving in Italy, a commitment that our country also carries heavily in Europe. The military operations initiated by the forces of General Khalifa Haftar in the area of the oil crescent, where the main plants of the international and Italian companies arise, risk having a destabilising effect on the process of stabilisation and peace in Libya. As you have been punctually illustrated in the Defence Commission, today our armed forces are engaged in Libya in the Hippocrates mission, aimed at carrying out a hospital garrison in support of the Libyan forces, as well as by formal request of the Prime Minister al-Sarraj that our country supports, a localized intervention on the territory of Misurata. I would therefore ask you to update the state of implementation of the mission and also to confirm its purpose. As parliamentarians of the territory of Cuneo, I must tell you that together with Mr Chiara Gribaudo and Mr Mino Taricco we follow with attention and concern a story that affects the lives of our families and communities. On September 19, Bruno Cacace, a resident of Borgo San Dalmazzo in the province of Cuneo, and Danilo Calonego, of the province of Belluno, employed by the company Conicos di Mondovì, were kidnapped in Libya. I would ask you, Minister, to understand the delicacy of the situation if there are any updates.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u49	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you whether you believe that the Italian Parliament has the right to know the limits of intervention and the rules of engagement of the military contingent in defence of personnel and the hospital in Misrata. Moreover, considering the presence of our military in Libya and the collaboration between the services of the two countries, do you not believe that the Government must commit itself to obtaining the UN resolutions and the consent of the Government of Tripoli is to start the second part of phase 2 of EUNAVFOR Med, that it previews the possibility to stop, inspect and confiscate boats for the traffic of human beings also in the Libyan territorial waters, than to open phase 3 in order to neutralize the boats and the logistic structures of the smugglers?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u52	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, by deploying us in Misrata a national military contingent that is currently the largest armed contribution of a Western country to the stabilisation of Libya, Italy has made a very clear choice of field not only against the Islamic State, but also against the forces that support General Haftar and therefore Egypt and, if we want, to a lesser extent also France. In fact, they would be engaged alongside Tobruk contingents of military advisors both Emiratini and Egyptians. Given that General Haftar recently went to Moscow to ask Russia for military supplies, which is not yet known whether and to what extent they will be granted, the situation certainly exposes the Italian troops to the risk of actively taking part in a civil war with very high internationalization potential. I therefore ask you, Minister, how the Government intends to react if the troops under General Haftar intend to attack Western Libya now under the control of the Government of Libyan National Agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u55	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Minister, on 13 September last, the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Defence informed the relevant parliamentary committees of their decision to send about 300 soldiers to the Libyan city of Misrata, responding to the demands of the Libyan Government for humanitarian action consistent with the UN resolution. In particular, it appears that Italy would have sent about 65 doctors and military paramedics, setting up a field hospital at the airport of Misrata, to provide assistance and care to the Libyan forces engaged in the war at ISIS. Italian doctors would be supported by 135 logistics personnel and protected by 100 Folgore paratroopers. We ask you, Minister, if it confirms the scope of the quota sent last September, if among the hypotheses for managing the Libyan crisis in the coming months there is also the sending of additional military contingents of our country, for humanitarian purposes or for possible military operations, and what proposals are being studied to give a genuinely European political perspective to future interventions in Libya, considering the substantial unevenness of political assessments and support among European partners in that very delicate crisis zone.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u58	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to know whether the news that the Government of al-Sarraj exists almost exclusively in the city of Tripoli is true. The militias of Misrata are very annoyed by the demands of that Government and push for an autonomous action. General Haftar has taken control of the oil wells. I would like to know whether, under such conditions, our presence in Libya is not without the necessary security reasons and is not convenient. Please do not reply by saying that in Libya we protect only one hospital, because the newspapers are full of his statements and statements from the American ambassador to Italy, generals and observers who continuously link this small presence to the possibility of a real intervention in Libya. Somewhere, therefore, we are talking about this; in Parliament no and above all we are not talking about the incredible and dangerous conditions of Libya at the present time.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u61	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Minister and greet the honourable citizens who listen to us from the outside. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you a very simple question: can you explain to us in a precise and precise way the authorization passages or the votes that Parliament has taken to send the Italian military to Libya? I would like to ask you specifically, first of all, who voted and when 40 special forces were sent to Libya in March; secondly, who voted for the use of the Sigonella base for the Americans to bomb in Libya; finally, who voted for the famous Hippocrates mission, which allows 300 military to go to Libya. I ask you all this as an exponent of the 5 Star Movement, but above all it is the citizens outside who want to know whether Italy is at war or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u64	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, Minister, in saying that I fully agree with what the Government in Libya has done - I do not agree with everything else, but I do - I ask a precise question. Our soldiers are there. I wonder why, since we have the legitimate government of al-Sarraj, when we talked about humanitarian and military missions (of which I am convinced and which I believe necessary), we were not asked even if we could be allowed to patrol with our military that part of the Libyan coast from which thousands and thousands of migrants leave. We've had tens of thousands more landings in the last few hours. It sounds like a joke to everyone, but when we're no longer able to rule local communities, I don't know who's gonna cry and who's gonna pay for what's going on. It would therefore be appropriate to do so. The French are there. Mr Haftar today made a very dangerous statement: he said that Italy should leave the agreement with al-Sarraj, because they, from Cyrenaica, are preventing the departure of various people. Then we have to figure out what we're doing. Our position in terms of international politics is more legitimate, because I understand that the UN has legitimized the Government of al-Sarraj: this is the reality and I fully understand it. Our position must be clear and Senator Santangelo is right, albeit from different positions, to say so. I am even in favour of sending more quotas. Imagine that Italy does not exist or that in the European chessboard, and therefore the Middle East, we are not there, it means being out of the world. We want to be a Switzerland and we are not, even if Switzerland is militarily much more equipped than we are. That's the real thing. How long are we gonna last? Does this country exist or not? I repeat: this is the real fact. With regard to the rules of engagement, do our military have the guarantee that they will not have to die before they can defend themselves? That is the question I ask you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Defence, Senator Pinotti, has the power to respond jointly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u65	Mr President, I apologise for not mentioning Senator Marton earlier, but I have answered both on Brexit and on national sovereignty, and on the subject of NATO. If you ask if I am not interested in rights, I think that more security means more rights for European citizens. I hope with this I have also answered his last question (to all the others I had already answered). I am now going to respond to the issue of Libya. You have already mentioned in your speeches that since 4 August, as I have also told the Foreign and Defence Commissions, following UN Resolution 2259, the Government led by al-Sarraj has been identified as the only legitimate one in Libya, and all the United Nations Member States have been called upon to give prompt assistance to this Government in its fight against the so-called Islamic State. On August 8, President Al-Sarraj wrote a letter to President Renzi asking to establish a military field hospital. We immediately took action, taking place before the reconnaissance, and on 13 September, after a parliamentary hearing of Minister Gentiloni and myself - I do not know if Senator Santangelo was present - votes were taken by which not only the majority forces supporting this Government, but also many other political forces, supported us with force and determination. Therefore, there have been votes in Parliament in the relevant committees, as provided for in the so-called Ruffino resolution, which regulates - as you know - matters relating to missions, not only, but also as provided for in the new framework law on international missions, which provides for such passages. These are the votes that have been taken: I do not know if you were present, but Parliament voted. The Italian contingent - and I reply to Senator Mineo - operates only in the context for which the intervention was requested. Specifically - to respond to Senators Bianconi and Manassero - the contingent will consist of: a rate for the real health function, composed of 65 doctors and nurses, as you have mentioned; a second rate composed of 135 units for the function of general logistic support that will serve to the maintenance of the means and the equipment, the communications, the administrative management, the organization and management of the activities and all the services necessary for the daily life of the staff; a third rate composed of 100 units dedicated to the protection of the contingent, both in the phase of realization of the hospital from field and in its operation. Since we are aware that there are still many frailties within the Libyan government, as has been mentioned in some interventions, and there is a situation of tension present with General Haftar, along with these men there are a C-27J and a ship of Safe Sea, overlooking the coasts of Libya, because, if there were to be situations of difficulty, obviously we must bring our staff in safety. We hope that there is no need for this. For now we are operating quietly and there is no difficulty. The deployment was launched on September 14 by trip from Italy to Libya, employing both naval and air carriers. On 18 September last, the first rate was reached in full operation, with emergency surgical capacity and twelve beds; moreover, six Italian military doctors are operating in the hospital of Misrata in support of other civil doctors for some specialties that were not present. To date 165 medical advices have been provided, 13 nursing advices, 29 surgical medications, 40 surgeries. To date there are a number of doctors (the numbers I have already given them to you previously). It is expected that the field hospital will reach full operation between 15 and 20 October next. At that point additional abilities will be available such as: neurosurgery, maxillofacial and vascular surgery and hand, and 50 beds. On the other hand, let us turn to the most political issue. Obviously, the need for a European political perspective towards Libya is as much as Italy wants. You know that formally there has always been a unity. With regard to the recognition of the Al-Sarraj Government - I am referring to support, but also to the condemnation of certain actions - there has always been a unity that has seen Minister Gentiloni, together with the other Foreign Ministers, both of the United States and of the major European States, support the line indicated by the United Nations resolution. There is still work to be done - let us not hide it - but it seems to us that, from this point of view, the picture, still very fragile and difficult, is proceeding - this is also the message given by Italy - towards the achievement of the ability to be more inclusive towards that part - I am referring to the government of Tobruk and General Haftar - which continues to say that it does not recognize itself in this Government. This is a complicated and difficult path, which, however, is making progress. With regard to Senator Pelino's question, there is an interministerial coordination table to address, together with the local authorities, the migration issues in which the Ministry of the Interior participates and also an official liaison of the Defense that interlogues with the Libyan authorities (because of course, you have all mentioned it, the issue of departures of migrants and boatmen from Libya for Italy is a problem). As far as the rules of engagement are concerned, these are obviously aimed at the self-defense of the contingent, as is usually the case in these cases according to the rules in force also for the missions of the United Nations having humanitarian purposes. On the subject of migrants we record two steps that we consider positive. The fact that the Libyan authorities are willing to dialogue with representatives of the Italian Defense, Ministry of Interior and Intelligence to see how to deal with the issue is an important signal. The other important signal comes from the new tasks of EUNAVFOR Med. It is true, Senator Pelino, that phases 2B and 3 (i.e. those that expect to be able to destroy the nets of the scafisti directly in Libya) need a UN resolution and the request of the Libyan Government. This request to go to Libya was not there. Moreover, this cannot be decided by the Italian Government, because it is a European mission that the decision must take place at European level. However, two important new demands have been made from Libya. The first is to monitor illegal arms trafficking that violates the embargo, while the second is to train the Coast Guard and the Libyan Navy to patrol the coasts. Very recently Admiral Credendino has announced that the training activity will start from the end of October (the precise date he has given is that of 24 October): 80 units will be trained on ships (it is an Italian ship) and 500 on land (in Malta and Greece). This training will last fourteen weeks and its conclusion should allow the delivery of ten Italian patrol boats (six for the Civil Guard and four for the military), which will allow the Libyan Government to assume the task of controlling the coast and the waters immediately adjacent. I now come to answer Senator Divine. Obviously, the Government will work, as always, in the context of the international community to preserve both peace and the integrity of Libya. The Italian position is as follows: it would be a terrible mistake for Libyans (and for all) a division of Libya, as had been feared in the past. This is a risk in which we have always said that we have great concern. With regard to the story of our two abducted compatriots, mentioned by Senator Manassero, you know that the Copasir recently audited the director of AISE. These are situations on which maximum confidentiality must be maintained. What I can assure the senator, who is also of that territory, is that the various sectors of the state that have to deal with the matter are doing everything possible. Of course, we are not talking about the issue because it is not useful to do so, but - I repeat - there is the greatest commitment on the part of all the sectors of the State to deal with these problems. I have already spoken about the vote. On the special forces I wanted to remind Senator Santangelo that the use of special forces for situations of particular danger, in which the necessity is identified, was regulated by a parliamentary amendment. It was therefore not a proposal from the Government but an amendment that was voted by the Parliament itself (both the Senate and the House, because I believe it was an amendment to the Mission Decree) and that provides for implementing arrangements that you know refer to the Copasir. Therefore, from this point of view, all the requests you have made to me have been put to the vote in Parliament; not the vote on the use of the bases because it is a prerogative of the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u68	Mr Manassero (PD). I would like to thank the Minister for everything, but above all for the commitment he has made on the matter that I have represented. I also thank you for the details on the current situation of the mission in Libya. I stress the importance of the most political aspect you have mentioned: the work that is constantly being done to deal with in a common way - because the mission is not only of our country - a situation that, as you have said, is extremely fragile. Undoubtedly, the stability of the area, peace, the security of economic activity and workers must be sought, but the importance of this issue of the flow of migrants, which is so much worrying us and on which we must work not only from the humanitarian point of view, but also in the perspective, gives the sense of all this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u71	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, but precisely because you have observed that there is still much to be done about UN resolutions, I hope that our Government will pursue this path. In fact, we must not forget that Italy feels more than other European countries the weight of what is happening on the Libyan coasts and, therefore, this second phase of EUNAVFOR Med should be fully taken into account. I therefore hope once again to raise awareness, even with my question, of a more incisive action by the Italian Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u74	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam Minister, you have been clear in giving us the answers, but I must reiterate that our concern remains, also because we are the only military contingent: of all partners no one has yet moved towards Libya. In Libya there is still a situation where not all the European and surrounding countries unanimously recognize the Government of national agreement of President al-Sarraj. Perhaps the action we have taken in Iraq to protect an Italian interest, a company that will operate or operate on the Mosul dam, would have been more justified. Well, this magnanimity of ours should have brought something in return from Libya, given the risk we're taking. We have seen in this last week departures of 6,000-10,000 people a day; at least that the Libyans controlled in return these departures and embarks, that we know then how many problems they give, not to the Defense, but to the system of the Interior.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u77	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. The UN resolution and the votes of the relevant Commissions are the umbrella that guarantees this military and especially humanitarian operation. We believe that the medical and paramedic military staff are among the best and, therefore, in a Libyan health system, where everything has jumped, will certainly work very well; to them a great thank you because they make us very proud.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u80	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam Minister, I'm sorry, but I have to say I'm dissatisfied. I am well aware that for now we are only defending one hospital and that the quota has been sent on the basis of parliamentary votes on international missions. If, however, God forbid, any of ours were attacked, we would find ourselves involved in a conflict of which, as this response shows, we do not know the real size of the forces on the ground. We only console ourselves with the fact that the UN has recognized the Government of Tripoli, while Misrata is already something else and Haftar has conquered the oil wells. A country with its own honor should foresee and not be faced with an emergency. I repeat: God forbid!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u83	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam Minister, I will not respond to your provocations, the answers must be given to the citizens outside. We sent 40 special forces soldiers through an escapism that the government did (an amendment of the majority); you gave the use to the Americans of Sigonella through the prerogatives of the government. You voted in the Commission, an assigned affair - hence a PD report - in haste forgetting what is provided for in Articles 78 and 11 of the Constitution; to those, even if you are of the PD, you must refer as long as there is the Constitution. Finally, he referred to the framework law that will enter into force from 2017. Madam Minister, what you ignore is really embarrassing for a Minister of Defence. [[Exchange of comments between Minister Pinotti and Senator Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u86	Tarquinio (CoR). Madam Minister, I sincerely expected the answer you gave me on the rules of engagement; it is always the same, and on the other hand it is not only you: even the generals present in Lebanon have given the same answer, with such embarrassment; that is, they do not have the courage to tell the truth. The truth is that our soldiers are often not in a position to defend themselves. That's the real thing. First we kill them and then we reason; always this diplomacy. Shall we take a lesson? When will this country realize that we have been left alone in relation to so many issues? When will we understand that some problems - they told us in the face - or solve them ourselves or no one turns out to us? Demagogy, pacifism, is all easy; but the problems remain. You have to have the courage to be a nation, if we are. And that means a lot of things; it means paying a lot of prices as well. These words no longer exist. Anyone's subjects or is this Italy not capable of being Italy? Within the limits that belong to it, our humanity has always distinguished us in every part of the world; it is not possible to be anyone. Wait, what? The moment we are overwhelmed the troubles are only ours and they have already proved to leave us alone. We must be able to solve the problems, we must be able to pay the prices and know that our men must be defended and have the right to defend themselves, not to offend. We must understand it; if this awareness is not there, poor Italy!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u87	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-695.ana.u88	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday, 11 October, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) I would also remind you that at 4.30 p.m. in the Senate Chamber there will be a solemn commemoration, in the presence of the President of the Republic, the Senator for Life, President emeritus of the Republic Carlo Azeglio Ciampi. The sitting was closed at 16.59 p.m.
