ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u4	A delegation of the French Senate is present in the gallery, led by the President of the Parliamentary Group of Friendship France-Italy, François Zocchetto. Welcome to the Senate of the Italian Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1949, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 1168. The rapporteurs, Senators Sangalli and Casson, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Sangalli.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u6	Mr President, the measure is part of the Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union. It will then enter into the substance of the legal measure. The draft law, already approved by the House, as you have reminded us, brings the ratification and enforcement of the Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union. The measure also contains a delegation to the Government for the reform of Book XI of the Code of Criminal Procedure and other concomitant regulatory changes. To illustrate these measures to adapt the legal order, on which the Commission has decided to introduce amendments, I leave, of course, the presentation to my colleague, Mr Casson, rapporteur for the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs. I would like to make a few brief comments on the Commission's profiles of interest. First of all, I would like to remind you that with our work we are trying to catch up on the delay in ratification by our country of the Brussels Convention, which has been stigmatized several times in Europe, and that in some circumstances it has been a brake on the work of our judiciary. The Convention responds to the need to strengthen cooperation between the countries of the Union in the field of investigation and trial, in order to ensure more effective action to combat crime. [[Brusio]] I wonder if maybe he's interested in fighting crime.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u7	You're right, Senator Sangalli. Colleagues, I invite you to follow Senator Sangalli's report with greater attention and respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u8	Mr Sangalli, rapporteur. The aim is to simplify the procedures for requesting judicial assistance by introducing specific forms and techniques of cooperation (i.e. through video conferencing, joint investigation teams, interceptions and so on). The Convention, ratified by almost all of the 28 Member States of the Union, consists of a preamble and thirty articles, divided into five titles. The provisions of Title II (Articles 8 to 16) governing requests for specific forms of legal assistance are particularly important. Articles 10 and 11 govern the use of the hearing of witnesses and experts, including a videoconference hearing. On the other hand, hearings of accused persons may be carried out only under certain conditions, agreed by the Member States concerned, and subject to the consent of the accused. Article 12 provides that, in the context of investigations into extradition offences, supervised deliveries may be carried out at the request of a Member State. Article 13 provides that two or more Member States may set up a joint investigation team for the conduct of investigations, in particular in the case of complex investigations and require coordinated and concerted action. Title V of the Convention lays down, inter alia, the arrangements for the accession of new members of the European Union and the effectiveness of certain rules also vis-à-vis Iceland and Norway. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Convention was approved when the matter was covered by the so-called 'third Community pillar' with special procedures, essentially intergovernmental. With the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon in 2009, the scope of criminal judicial cooperation has entered into full competence of Community procedures. The issues covered by the Convention are now governed by Community rules, and it is therefore very urgent for our country to comply with progress by ratifying the Brussels Convention. The draft ratification law consists of seven articles concerning the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the delegations for the reform of the internal system, the clause of financial invariance and the entry into force. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Casson.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u9	Mr President, I am asking for a more detailed written report on the subject and article by article, because it is a rather complex draft law, which came from the House of Members on 3 June 2015, and which intervenes, on the one hand, to implement, in addition to authorising, the ratification of the Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union, made in Brussels back in 2000, but, on the other hand, it also intervenes in the field of code and criminal law, with particular reference to matters relating to judicial assistance and active and passive extradition. In particular, the bill that comes to us from the Chamber of Deputies absorbs the previous bill deposited to the Senate, the Senate Act 1168.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u10	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u11	CASSON, Rapporteur. The draft law in our examination consists of seven articles, the first two, already illustrated by the co-rapporteur, refer to the ratification and enforcement order of the Convention, Articles 3, 4 and 5 concern delegations for the reform of the internal system, the final articles, 6 and 7 refer to the issue of financial invariance and the last article on the entry into force of the bill. As far as Articles 3, 4 and 5 are concerned, I must say that the two Commissions have worked very thoroughly for a long time, with important and profound changes to the text reached by the Chamber of Deputies, with particular reference to certain fundamental principles, which had been partly left out, and above all with the will and intent, which we believe to have been accomplished, to specify more clearly the delegations to the Government, which in some cases were merely envisaged and did not fall within the minimum required - so as to see the two Commissions joined by the Senate - with regard to the criteria and guiding principles in order to be able to exercise the delegation. Article 3, first of all, delegates the Government to issue one or more legislative decrees to implement the Convention, identifying specific guiding principles and criteria. In particular, in paragraph 1, legislative decrees are expected to intervene in order to improve judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the States party to the Convention and to ensure that the judicial assistance of Italy towards those States is implemented as quickly and effectively as possible, in constant respect of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, as well as the fundamental principles, which are repeatedly specified and cited and which also concern our internal law. It should be pointed out, however, that, precisely for the purposes of the application of the Community Directive, the reference to the rank of primary sources is always that of the European nature of these rules. Following the adoption in the Commissions of an amendment by the rapporteur, it is envisaged, in particular, that in the exercise of the delegation - from letter (e) which has been rewritten - the principle of reciprocity should be respected. On this subject, we have repeatedly considered it, because it had been somewhat ignored by the text received from the Chamber of Deputies and I have to say that there has been a very good work done here in the Senate, both with regard to the examination of the draft law which has been brought to the Commissions and with regard to the amendments tabled by the 14th European Parliament. The Commission, which is responsible for this matter, has given specific indications, precisely in order to improve, with a view to coordination with the European legal system, the rules that we are going to approve. In Article 4, which constitutes the heart of the draft law under consideration, reference is made to a delegation to the Government for the reform of an entire book of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is the book XI, i.e. basically the rules from Article 696 of the Code of Criminal Procedure onward. In this respect, work has been done to coordinate and clarify very specific delegations. Article 4, as received by the Chamber of Deputies, did not contain, as a guiding principle and criterion for the exercise of the delegation from the same envisaged, a forecast similar to that of the current Article 696 of the criminal procedure, in relation to the prevalence of the conventions of general international law in the matter in question. This was reported, in particular also on indication of the 14th The Commission, precisely because this omission had caused considerable concern in the context of the debate, both because the prevalence of conventional rules of general international law, in the terms indicated in the new Article 696 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, constitutes a consolidated principle in the matter under consideration, and because the inclusion of a guiding principle and criterion on the point specifically considered could be the natural forum in which to address in an express way the issue of the location of the European Union's legislative sources in the overall context under consideration, inter alia in accordance with the Commission's expressly competent merit had pointed out to us. And here there has been a constant call in particular to the principle and guarantees of reciprocity, as regards both the Member States of the European Union and the non-EU States. There have been changes following the various letters in Article 4. In particular, point (c) clarifies the areas of the Minister of Justice's power of intervention, in relations with both the States of the European Union and with States other than those of the European Union, also dictating a diversified discipline, which has been summarised in the amendments approved by the Commissions and submitted to the Senate Assembly today. Article 4 (1) (a), numbers 8 and 9 also extends the application of the rules on the execution of requests for legal assistance, as they are compatible with requests made by a Member State or other Member States of the European Union in proceedings for the application of sanctions, including administrative sanctions. This is a particular feature which has been discussed and which has been confirmed precisely because of the value it can have in relations between States, taking specifically into account the diversity of national legal systems. As regards the forecasts of the subsequent numbers 10, 11 and 12 of point (a) of paragraph 1 of Article 4, reference is made to the possibility of forming joint investigation teams. On this point, despite the submission of a number of amendments, it was felt that it was not necessary to intervene in depth, precisely because recently the Government adopted, again under the authority of this Parliament, specific legislation, very recent, to regulate the matter of joint investigation teams. So it seemed inappropriate to change just how recently Parliament and the Government, as a whole, had decided to adopt. With regard more specifically to the matter of extradition, referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1, letter b), the Commissions, unlike the previous letter, did not consider that they had to change in depth the establishment of the bill received from the Chamber of Deputies, which aims to differentiate the areas of exercise of the competitors power of political authority and judicial authority, so as to avoid the overlapping of assessments related to the same parameters. However, some changes have been made. First, in paragraph 1 (b), number 1, it is said that the political authority is entrusted with the examination of all the factual circumstances attributable to the sphere of the typically political assessments, referring to the impact of extradition on the essential interests of the State, providing the power of the Minister of Justice not to give rise to the request for extradition only if extradition could compromise the sovereignty, security or other essential interests of the State. In the following number 2, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is expected to make the granting of extradition subject to conditions and to refuse in predetermined cases the extradition of the citizen, except as provided for in international agreements. Number 3, following the approval by the Commissions of an amendment tabled by the co-rapporteurs, provides for an explicit judicial guarantee; in this regard, the Court of Appeal is indicated as a court competent in the field of extradiction. This is perhaps a superfluous indication in the Government's intentions, but it was not included in the delegation law and it was considered appropriate to specify also the court, therefore the judicial guarantee, both for the case of the countries that are part of the European Union, and for the case of countries that are not part of it. Let me turn quickly to Article 5 (I shall then submit a slightly more detailed report to the documents). Article 5, in particular, introduces amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure on extradition for foreign purposes. The text approved by the Chamber of Deputies provided for amendments only to Articles 708 and 714. However, the Senate Justice and Foreign Commissions have approved an amendment by the Government that also amends Article 698 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In addition to changing the heading, the amendment sought to recall the protection of fundamental rights in the field of extradition to foreign countries. The second paragraph of this Article has been amended. Therefore, if the fact for which extradition is required is punished with the death penalty under the law of the foreign State, for the purpose of granting extradition, the judicial authority shall be given the power to ascertain that an irrevocable decision has been taken committing a penalty other than the death penalty; or, if this has been imposed, that it has already commuted it into a different penalty. The current rule, however, still provides that extradition may be granted after the foreign State has given assurances, deemed sufficient by both the political authority and the judicial authority, that the death penalty will not be imposed. We have also seen recent cases in this area. It was considered more appropriate to indicate in the Commission that a more stringent rule should be adopted. In short, this is the work done, but the report is much more detailed. We have presented a series of coordination rules, which have obviously already been presented in the text before the Senate. As rapporteurs, we have also added a number of amendments which are, in substance, a necessary and compulsory coordination between the rules adopted in the Commission and the text, precisely in order to make reading easier and easier to apply to legal practitioners in the various areas of competence. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u12	There is a representation of students and teachers of the State Gymnasium High School "Gaetano De Bottis" in Torre del Greco, in the province of Naples, to whom we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u13	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u14	Mr President, we are here to discuss the authorisation to ratify and implement the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between Member States of the European Union, which was held in Brussels on 29 May 2000. It is desirable that there should be ratification of a Convention aimed at improving relations between Member States of the European Union. Mr President, I guess you didn't miss us in 2016. If we wait another month, ladies and gentlemen, it will be exactly sixteen years of delay. In the meantime, other conventions have been signed. And the same legal framework of sixteen years ago is no longer the same, in Italy and in other countries of Europe. Therefore, more rapid ratification would have been much more appropriate. So there is not much to rejoice about. I remember a joke Renzi made yesterday about the jobs act. Many of you have skinned your hands when you said it should have been done sooner. Apart from the fact, incidentally, that the new jobs in the last year are all related to 13 billion tax reductions, and certainly not to jobs act. I wonder, however, how hypocritical it was to applaud a joke that gives inability to those who ruled the country for thirteen of the last twenty years, that is to say, those who applauded the President of the Council yesterday. Returning to ratification, however, the government's step back should be appreciated. On the contrary, I could define it from my point of view as a step forward, since it was decided to accept the demands of the 5 Star Movement and then also of Senator Tremonti, presented to the Commission and made his own by the rapporteur, to introduce the principle of reciprocity in relations between the States of the European Union and with the other States. This, of course, with reference to the effects of this Convention. That is a good thing, because it was a serious lack. But it was a serious lack that we had already abundantly reported to the House. If our reports had already been received by the House, we could finally approve this ratification measure today. Anyway, as they say, better late than never. Of course, we cannot fail to consider that if there were no perfect bicameralism (the so-called perfect bicameralism), i.e. if the most useless and harmful constitutional reform in the history of the Republic were in force, this correction to a bill of wrong ratification (wrong not because we say so, but because you say it, the rapporteur says it, the Government says it and almost the entire Commission, that is to say, is unanimously wrong), it could not have been done, with the result that Parliament would have seen the adoption and publication in the Official Journal of a law unanimously deemed wrong. The same speech could be made for so many other measures, probably dozens only in the last month. In summary, the Government asks, even at the request of the 5 Star Movement, for the modification of a measure deemed wrong, or better perfectable, already approved in the Chamber. In all probability the Senate, with a large majority, will converge on this approach, therefore thanks to the existence of the perfect bicameralism, without which a wrong law would have been passed; however, it is exactly that perfect bicameralism for which overcoming the same Senate, at least this majority, voted. Mr President, I leave to you and your colleagues any further reflection on this total inconsistency and hypocrisy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u15	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u16	Mr President, the ratification of the Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters signed in Brussels in 2000 is late in Parliament; it has become a matter of shared competence from the third pillar of the 1992 Maastricht Treaty (as the rapporteur recalled) as enshrined in the subsequent Lisbon Treaty of 2009 for the construction of a single area of freedom, security and justice. The so-called traditional judicial cooperation in criminal matters was based on several international instruments characterised by the principle of demand, which another sovereign State could decide not to follow; it was an intergovernmental system that did not create certainty, slow and complex. That is why the 1999 Tampere Council sanctioned the principle of mutual recognition as a cornerstone of judicial cooperation between the Member States of the European Union, both in civil and criminal matters, based on mutual trust in the different national justice systems and on the principle of equivalence. This programme would have accompanied the years following the adoption of the Lisbon Treaty, identifying a transitional period of five years in order to prepare and adapt the internal systems for this transition. The mutual recognition of final decisions in criminal matters should also have gone hand in hand with a certain degree of harmonisation through common minimum standards between the Member States; this updating in our system means, above all, revising the eleventh book of the Code of Criminal Procedure, entitled "Judicial relations with foreign authorities" in the fields of extradiction, international law and the effects of foreign criminal judgments. The Code of Criminal Procedure was established in 1988 and is already relatively outdated, as amended by more than twenty years of constitutional jurisprudence. And in this direction, the implementation of European law has played and is playing a key role. In this context, the delegation for the implementation of the Convention is called upon to respect the framework decisions and directives adopted in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and to coordinate with the rules already adopted for the adaptation of the internal law and - as the rapporteur recalled - to respect the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in particular on the basis of Article 9 of Protocol No 36 annexed to the Treaties. The power of the Minister of Justice to assess whether to pursue the implementation of the request for legal assistance should therefore not apply to the Member States of the Union, leaving that competence to the prosecution authorities. The entire delegation necessarily recalls the respect of the European archive in police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which since 1 December 2014 involves the subjecting of Italy to infringement procedures. Precisely for this reason, with the law of European delegation for 2014, approved last July, it delegated itself to the Government to implement seven framework decisions: on joint investigation teams; on the implementation in the European Union of measures to block goods or to seize evidence; on the mutual recognition of financial penalties; on sentences and suspension decisions; on the strengthening of the procedural rights of persons; on alternative measures to precautionary detention; on the prevention and resolution of conflicts related to the exercise of jurisdiction; on the hearing of witnesses and experts on the European order of criminal investigation. The reference to the 2002 Framework Decision on the European arrest warrant and its implementing measures could certainly not be missing. This framework decision, in fact, as you know, overturns the classic extraditional mechanisms, reducing the role of the Executive with the related powers of impulse and veto and enhancing, on the other hand, the direct relations between judicial authorities. In this context, however, even before examining the different aspects and consequences of the principle of mutual recognition, it would seem appropriate to address the issue of information, exchange and access to decisions issued by the different Member States. In view of the fact that there is no single European register of judgments that can be used for this purpose, the recent establishment of ECRIS, i.e. a computer system that speeds up the acquisition of information from national criminal records, is essential in order to address, moreover, the various issues related to it, such as the competence for access, data protection and the degree of homogeneity of the data introduced. Recognizing a decision means first of all implementing it, without the need for any other conversion procedure in the case of a Member State of the European Union; it means taking it into account in connection with the ne bis in idem principle, or the notion of recurrence and the assessment of the danger of the crime, up to, in some cases, the assessment of the conviction as an aggravating circumstance. It is a cultural and political transition, even before legal: the transition from mutual assistance to mutual recognition, behind an undoubted acceleration of these years of government with the various legislative decrees implementing European decisions on judicial cooperation (and this must be acknowledged). Acceleration also linked to the tragic events of international terrorism, which is also necessary to complete the plan of progressive and irreversible European unification with the transfer of national sovereignty in this area as well. So from the third pillar of the Maastricht Treaty of intergovernmental cooperation to the 2000 Convention, to the desired single European prosecutor in criminal matters. This harmonisation makes Book X and XI of the Code of Criminal Procedure appear more than outdated. That is why the ratification of the Brussels Convention of 2000 and the updating of our legal system, in line with Article 67 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which requires the Union to facilitate access to justice, in order to build a genuine common judicial area, certainly safer, but above all more European. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u17	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u18	I call the rapporteur, Senator Casson.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u19	Mr President, I will use very little time just to acknowledge and say that the work within the Joint Commissions has been carried out by everyone in a spirit of cooperation precisely because we wanted to achieve a positive and efficient text on international relations in criminal matters, both for the part relating to criminal judicial assistance in the strict sense, and for the part relating to active and passive extraditions. Above all, the work carried out by the 14a was very useful. Commission, which was also summarized in Mr Ginetti's speech. I would merely add that we have tabled four amendments, within the pre-determined timetable, which basically constitute coordination rules and that, when the time comes, they may be illustrated (probably after the 5th Commission has given its opinion).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u20	Since the rapporteur, Senator Sangalli, does not intend to speak in his reply, I have the right to speak to the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to thank the Justice and Foreign Affairs Committees who have done important work on this measure. In fact, several amendments have been proposed and approved in this context which have solved some critical issues that the measure presented, largely determined by the fact that the draft law delegates relies on the technique of the novella and does not aim to rewrite the entire field of procedural discipline. This technique has given rise to some misunderstandings which the amendments adopted in the Commission have escaped. This was due to the failure to foresee, among the principles and guiding criteria, the general prevalence of conventions and international law, which was remedied by an amendment which made it clear that the principle of the prevalence of conventions continues to be the one governing the matter. And, as the rapporteur has rightly said, also with regard to the absence of the provision of the condition of reciprocity and, therefore, the power of the Minister not to give way to the questioning when the requesting State does not give adequate guarantees of reciprocity and the failure to provide for the judicial guarantee in the matter of extradition, another amendment has been approved. Today we can therefore dismiss an important bill that entrusts to the Government the task of remedying the inadequacy of the existing procedural forms, especially in the matter of judicial assistance, procedural forms that are no longer able to respond to the requests for simplification of international cooperation. Here I would just like to point out, on the ground of the discipline of cooperation for probative purposes, that the guiding idea is to differentiate the system of rules according to whether they are at stake in relations with the States of the European Union or with non-EU states. In the European judicial area, which is characterised by mutual trust in the democratic nature of national systems, the need for a double scrutiny (political and judicial) on the existence, in concrete terms, of the conditions of judicial assistance and opts for a differentiated model capable of ensuring the substantial depoliticisation of the system of judicial assistance focused on the direct transmission of the letters to the competent judicial authority of enforcement. In relations with third countries, however, double scrutiny is maintained, distinguishing the powers of political and judicial authorities and avoiding unnecessary overlaps. It is thus provided that the Minister of Justice may not pursue the execution of the application for judicial assistance solely for reasons of protection of the sovereignty, security and other essential interests of the State. The judicial authority, on the other hand, has the power to refuse or suspend the execution of the request for legal assistance, whenever any of the grounds laid down by law are used, and in particular where the acts requested are prohibited by law or contrary to fundamental principles of the legal order of the State; or if there are grounds for believing that considerations relating to race, religion, sex, nationality, language, political opinions or other personal or social conditions may affect the conduct of the trial. It is also necessary to simplify procedures as much as possible, shifting jurisdiction from the court of appeal, not suitable to govern investigative matters and requirements entrusted to the ordinary competence of different bodies, to the dialectic between the prosecutor and the judge for the preliminary investigations competent. In particular, if the request has as its object probative acquisitions that prescind, according to the domestic law, from the necessary intervention of the judge, it is prescribed that the prosecutor of the Republic is the executing judicial authority, thus overcoming a nineteenth-century model of assistance; instead, if the requested acts must be carried out before the judge or can not take place without the authorization of the judge, it is expected that the prosecutor of the Republic must question without delay the judge for the preliminary investigations of the court of the chief town of the district. Ultimately, this is a very long-awaited piece of legislation, especially because of the terrorist emergency that calls for a strengthening of cooperation relations. The text of the bill, I repeat, has been improved and refined by an excellent work of the Commissions, which has perhaps also remedied some excessive genericity of the guiding criteria. I hope that the House will hesitate, with a quick examination, to examine the goodness of the work that has been done by the Commission as a whole. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u22	Since the opinion of the 5th Commission has not been received, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Petrocelli asked for an urgent statement on document XXII, No 23, establishing a parliamentary committee of inquiry into ENI S.p.A. Pursuant to Rule 77 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the debate on this request will be placed on the agenda of tomorrow's afternoon sitting, Thursday 21 April. The vote will be taken by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u26	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I denounce a bad management of culture and, specifically, of the typical cinema of the Democratic Party. My city, as you know, is administered by your PD Council. On 31 December 2015, Alberto Barbera's term of office as director expired after twelve years. The rules on transparency and the regulations of the Municipality and the Region concerning appointments in the participants required to proceed to the search of the new director by means of a public notice. Public ban is a keyword that you hear less and less in this nation. However, in order to save Barbera (VAT advisor), on December 22, 2015, the College of founders of the Museum decided to seek an additional management director and appoint Barbera artistic director, thus clearly violating the statute of the Museum. Therefore, the Museum's budget is supplemented by the salary of a managing director and against Barbera's salary remains unchanged (140,000 euros per year plus VAT) despite being his job (already eight months a year) greatly reduced. In March, Braccialarghe wrote an e-mail (in the face of political interference) requiring that research be directed not to a director, but to a management manager. Since private founding partners do not fall into the trap, it is decided to postpone everything until after the elections. On December 28, 2015 (three days before its expiry), Barbera made a "manovrina" of 21 increases in level and salary, including the appointment of three new managers (another usual activity for you: the appointments just before the renewals), including that for Angela Savoldi, her assistant, also her, like Barbera, with double assignment, Turin and Venice, which receives yet another increase in salary. The maneuver involves an increase of 70,000 euros of fixed costs per year, while Barbera has delegations for a maximum of 50,000 euros of expenditure. It's obvious he's creating a hole. Although the Museum is a predominant foundation of public contributions (Comune and Regione in primis), and therefore subject to the regulations on public trusts, there is no accounting regulation, a formalized criterion for the assignment of works and the purchase of goods and services, a regulation for the research and recruitment of staff - gentlemen, you suck - an organizational or mansion of employees - another shame - a regulation for the assignment of duties to consultants, collaborators and firms, which are not rarely co-opted with completely questionable criteria, when not openly clientele. This led to the resignation of the following members of the Committee. I'm telling you because it's very interesting. In November 2014 he resigned Claudio Saracco, president of the Board of Auditors, who happens to go on purpose; in December 2014, Ugo Nespolo, president of the Foundation; in January 2015, Giovanni Desiderio, councilor appointed by the CRT Foundation; in June 2015, Stefania Raimondi, vice-president appointed by the Compagnia di São Paulo; in March 2016, Sergio Foà, vice-president appointed by the Compagnia di São Paulo. The situation in Turin sucks. If you think you're gonna win the election and propose this shit to us, I really hope you disappear from the administrations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u29	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last night, around 22.15, four chamorists in Secondigliano on two scooters exploded about 40 shots of Kalashnikov in the direction of the barracks of the Carabinieri of Secondi, hitting it also inside and devastating the cars of two carabinieri. This is an absolute gravity which must be taken into account. It is a fact that has no precedent in the history, even troubled, of Campania. There had never been a war-armed attack against a Carabinieri barracks in Campania. The 5 Star Movement invites the Government to keep the guard up immediately and to intervene before the irreparable happens. The 5 Star Movement is with the Carabinieri of Secondigliano and with all the carabinieri who do their duty in Campania every day at risk of their own skin. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u30	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-611.ana.u31	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 21 April, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.25 p.m.
