ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u4	The next item is the government statement on the terrorist attack in Dhaka. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have ten minutes available. I call the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's information is first and foremost an opportunity to pay a further tribute to Nadia Benedetti, Claudio Cappelli, Vincenzo D'Allestro, Claudia D'Antona, Simona Monti, Adele Puglisi, Maria Riboli, Cristian Rossi and Marco Tondat. [[The Assembly stands. Live, prolonged applause]] Nine of our fellow citizens, nine victims of terrorism, which Italy will not forget. Last Friday, at 9:10 p.m., our embassy was informed of the ongoing attack on Holey Artisan Bakery. Gian Galeazzo Boschetti, Claudia D'Antona's husband, called. Boschetti informed that, after temporarily moving away from the table towards the garden, he had seen four or five armed individuals break through the garden. Around 21.45, then half an hour later, another compatriot, Jacopo Bioni, a kitchen chef, came into contact with the embassy, who had reached the roof and from there the garden, moving away and finding refuge at a private house. Meanwhile, the first police intervention ended with a failure, the killing of two officers and the injury of about twenty other policemen for the effect of throwing grenades. Subsequently, Boschetti informed that from the position in which he was hiding in the garden, he saw two or three members of the terrorist commando guarding the area, both from the terrace of the second floor and from the room of the ground floor, where most of the hostages had been collected, and felt at irregular intervals bursts of machine guns. The next morning, at 7.42 a.m. on Saturday, July 2, the operation conducted by the army took place, with the deployment of fifteen armored vehicles, two of which broke through the fence network and the entrance wall of the premises. The intervention lasted about ten minutes for the break-in, while the operation as a whole, which also naturally involved the reclamation (with the explosion of explosives) of the theatre of the terrorist attack and the taking of hostages, lasted about forty minutes. The recognition of the victims (of the nine Italian victims, of the seven Japanese victims and of the others) took place on Saturday 2 July, at 18 local hours, in the military morgue. The recognition immediately confirmed that some victims had died of gunshots, while for the others the death was due to blows of macete inflicted on the neck, nape and face. A long night of horror and agony, therefore, during which the embassy was continuously in contact with the crisis unit and the latter with the families, whose presence in the restaurant had been established in the meantime and which, of course, continued to hope. The authors of this infamous massacre were educated young people, they belonged to middle-class families and some even of the Bangladeshi establishment, so disguising - and this is not the first time - easy sociological interpretations of the contemporary terrorist phenomenon we are facing. According to local authorities, they would be members of the Islamic group Jamaat-ul Mujahideen. Our first assessments, which we have also done with diplomatic and intelligence colleagues from other countries, still lead us to believe that the claims of the massacre made by Daesh in some sites of the so-called Caliphate are reliable. Ladies and gentlemen, this tragedy, I believe, proposes some assessments to our attention and to our debate. First of all, on the character of the threat, on the fact that we are facing a global threat, which goes from West Africa to South-East Asia, from the Gulf of Guinea to the Gulf of Bengal, which has different forms, Daesh, Al-Qaeda, several local jihadist groups, but which has a common denominator in the degeneration of fundamentalism terrorist of Islamist matrix and which also has in common the symbolic capacity of attraction of Daesh. Many people have wondered in these difficult days whether it is a threat directed directly towards us Italians; certainly in this case the victims were mainly, albeit not exclusively, Italian and Japanese. In other cases, targets were identified as unfaithful; Western, foreign, what mad and murderous terrorism calls unfaithful. And often the targets - we have to tell ourselves with just as much clarity - are in the pile; you shoot in the pile. The bloodiest massacre was three days ago in Baghdad, with the deaths of more than 200 people. It is then shot in the pile and shot in the pile even in countries with a Muslim majority. So, of course we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets, we're targets. It is also certain, however, that terrorism often strikes indiscriminately and also targets countries with an Islamic majority. I believe that this information should also be an opportunity to assess the characteristics of our response, the response of Italy, which must be, I believe, first and foremost a response of unity of the Government, of Parliament, of the institutions involved, of the social forces and of the world of culture. When they kill nine fellow countrymen, Italy responds unitedly. And this must be, I believe, a message that we give very clearly. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, AL-A, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), LN-Aut, CoR and Senator Cappelletti.]] The answer, as well as united, must be decided. We must say firmly, even if there is no need for abuse of words, that Daesh, that fundamentalist terrorism, even more so after this massacre, will have no respite on our part. Dacca tells us that the response to the terrorist threat is necessary and must be decided. It is said that with these attacks Daesh responds with terrorism to the defeats he is suffering on the ground. I say a very simple thing, namely that only the international mobilization for Daesh's final defeat on the ground can erase the symbolic attraction that today is the main engine that activates these attacks. We must be convinced of this, because if we interiorize almost a discourse of uncertainty or fear in continuing and leading to the bottom of the contrast to Daesh, imagining that a certain reluctance in the contrast to Daesh could save here and there, around the world, or in our national borders, we would be mistaken, because it is the existence of Daesh that produces the symbolic attraction that is the basis of these infamous actions. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), and AL-A groups.]] Organized cells or lone wolves, local groups or loose dogs: we do not know well this group of the five that attacked the restaurant in Dacca which of these categories belongs to. But all of them often carry out their criminal acts in the name of the call to this so-called Islamic State. So breaking down this symbol remains a fundamental objective of the Government, Parliament and Italy. Of course it is not enough to win on the military level and Italy is repeating it, as you know, for months in the framework of our international coalition and with our allies. It is not enough because we know that the fight against fundamentalist radicalisation will still be a long-term commitment. Defeating Daesh will be a decisive step, but not a definitive one, and it is here that I believe we must offer solidarity and ask for commitment to the governments of the countries of the Islamic majority and the Islamic community in Italy. To offer solidarity, because very often they are the targets and targets of terrorism, and Baghdad, to mention only the last massacre, reminds us of this. But also ask for commitment, because, as one of the leaders of the Arab world often repeats, King Abd Allah of Jordan: "It is up to us, to us Arabs, to us believers in the Islamic faith to beat these infidels." So he calls them King Abd Allah. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bianconi and Romani Paolo]] And I address myself from this House and in this spirit of solidarity and commitment also to the great, vast Muslim community that lives in peace in the vast majority of our country, asking you, also in Italy, to commit yourself openly, unitedly, against these terrorists who abuse your religion. By defacing her. Your mobilization and commitment will be decisive in the fight against radicalisation, isolation and the defeat of terrorism. I would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by returning to the memory of our fellow countrymen and by associating the figure of Cesare Tavella, another Italian, a cooperative who was also killed in Bangladesh last September with them. [[Applause.]] Our nine fellow countrymen weren't on vacation (there's nothing wrong with being on vacation, of course) and they weren't in a new Eldorado. They had chosen to work in Bangladesh, a country, especially in the textile sector, where these nine people worked, full of potential, but also of enormous contradictions. A country in which, in the textile sector in an obvious way, development potential and contradictions of poverty were intertwined and intertwined in a dramatic way. Just remember, as many have remembered in these groups, the collapse of the Rana Plaza in 2013. The collapse of a building under whose rubble 1129 people were found. Almost all of them, many of them, worked under conditions that were certainly not safe in textile factories of various kinds. Therefore, they had chosen a country and an area in which the interweaving of great potentials was evident, but also great difficulties and social contradictions. And they had made this choice in a country where for years they were evident, reported by the various international chancellors and diplomacies, increasing risks of instability. There had been some warning signs, which continue to be there. You will have seen that this morning there was again an attack, at the end of Ramadan, right in Bangladesh. There they had chosen to go to work. Some had done so in a spirit of enterprise, also having success in their work as entrepreneurs. Others simply did it to look for that job they did not find in our country. And we've heard that from their family members these last few days. Different people, but united, however, by spirit of initiative, creativity, ability to be with others, generosity, attachment to the family and our values. We have lost nine people with these qualities. Nine Italians. ( [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Misto, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, AL-A, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), LN-Aut and CoR and Senator Cappelletti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u6	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Government. Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u7	Mr President, on behalf of our Group we greatly appreciated this morning that the Minister initially described his information as a further opportunity for the Senate to pay tribute to the memory of our nine fellow citizens. The attack was particularly vile and, in the reconstruction that the Minister gave, particularly dramatic, considering that Boschetti from the garden was already in contact with our embassy. The attack, however, must lead us to make some considerations, not just chronicles. The first, Minister, whom you have rightly pointed out, concerns the recruitment of these terrorists. It seems to me that you have mentioned so many sociological stupidities about the formation of these "fighters" with suspicion, if not with insufferance. They come largely from the ruling classes, in some cases from the very establishment of a certain world. The claim, more than credible, came from the hateful Daesh. Certainly the war against these opponents must have an international and global character, as you rightly said about the threat. But we must be careful, because it is true that in defeat on the ground of war, guerrilla and terrorism there is a certain continuity and contiguity between the three challenging territories. It will be a decisive moment, but not a definitive moment, in the sense that winning this war implies, as you said, the solidarity and commitment of the vast Islamic communities living in peace in the West. Yeah, but it's too general and too generic that reference. It seems to us, from the words of the Egyptian President in the aftermath of the dramatic episode of Paris, the assassination of Charlie Hebdo, that we must ask for the commitment of these strange figures between the universalism of the faith and the fundamentalist and nationalistic exasperation. The President of Egypt on those Christmas holidays that preceded the Paris bombing by about ten days, addressed the Imam of the most important mosque in Cairo, Al-Azhar, the following words: "You cannot expect that for your interpretations of the Koran we have the whole world at war with us." It was an important, very important speech. To the shame of the Western press this speech came into circulation in our considerations only after the murderer of Paris. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] Therefore, there is a hood of hypocrisy in this broadening our speeches to the entire vast Islamic community, which wants to live in peace and which is threatened no less than us by this fundamentalist terrorism, and in this being then so slippery and inattentive about the role of the Imams. If I think of one of the most failing initiatives of the last ten years, failed in France and failed even in Italy when it was established, this is the Council for relations with Italian Islam located at the Ministry of the Interior. I had a courteous controversy with the Minister of the Interior of that time, my colleague and also my friend Pisanu, because it did not seem appropriate to appoint in this Council of Italians (written in the Communist Refoundation, but that was not the reason for my perplexity) who had changed their name to play this role. I have the impression that we must rethink many of our even institutional behaviors in the light of your considerations, Minister. If you want to use today's day to ask the Senate and the parliamentary arc for the maximum unity of intent and action, with a group like ours, placed in opposition, but never to the opposition of the international politics of your country, you break through an open door. We must, however, accentuate certain international links which we have neglected. Minister, when fundamentalist terrorism - I am talking about a few decades ago - had a single target, the State of Israel, that terrorism was equally hateful, but our country thought, with genuine shortsightedness in international relations, that it could co-habit, negotiate and neutralize with it in some way. Today you called this terrorism an Islamic; I would allow myself to give you a suggestion that comes from the history of this Assembly: Senator Benedetto Croce, after Matteotti's murder, no longer used the adjective "Fascist," but "Fascistic." For what it's worth, this is a "islamistic" fundamentalism, which must lead us to accentuate our aversion and adversity, even on the ground. I had the honour of accompanying the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission, Senator Casini, on a mission on the ground in Iraqi Kurdistan. The feeling is that there things are turning to the advantage of the coalition of which we honor to be part. But, precisely for this reason, it is to be put in the account - and unfortunately it has arrived - an increasingly hateful rise of this Islamist terrorism that, as you said, turns against the infidels. From this point of view, we do not lack loyalty to the memory of our fellow citizens if we too, in the face of all this, cannot fail to feel unfaithful, regardless of the nationality of the fallen. [[Applause from the CoR and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Volpi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u9	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, even after what has been read and seen, terror is added to the horror of the way things are. Even if it seems that it is never taken for everyone, we, as the North League, together with you, Minister, turn the memory to the families and extend it also to the 250 dead in Baghdad, to the dead in Paris, London. You have today launched an appeal for concrete reflection. Our positions are well known with regard to the danger on the internal front, to immigration and to the risks that even from that type of immigration can come. I would like to make two or three reflections, which are titles, because the times are what they are; I hope, on the contrary, that there will be an opportunity as soon as possible to find ourselves discussing these issues in depth. I believe that it is necessary to call it Islamist or Islamic terrorism, however, because it is a fact of awareness; it is for us all, for the Western community, but it must be, in a sense of stimulus, also for the communities on our territories that refer to that religion. Awareness becomes reality and reality becomes reaction and their reaction becomes essential to stem, at least on our territories, with their collaboration (which up to now perhaps has not been comprehensive and complete), this horror that strikes indiscriminately. You said this before, Minister: today we are not looking at strategic objectives; today it can be a pub, an airport or anything, because it is horror and terror. I'll give you a first cue. You are facing the commitment of the NATO summit in Warsaw. I and other colleagues from the Italian delegation have tried several times, even with the forum in Florence, to correct the strabismo that at this moment unfortunately affects this organization. When I hear about the proposal (which I think you can confirm) to send three reinforced battalions to the Baltic countries on the border with Russia, I interpret it in two ways: firstly as an unnecessary further provocation in a situation that certainly has not seen Russian terrorists around the world; secondly I think that perhaps those forces could be better employed in support of military action on the ground in the face of what is the horror of ISIS (let me call it ISIS and then tell you why). Mr Minister, in NATO, therefore, let us make it clear in the strongest possible way that there is a South front and that Russia is not currently on the agenda for an invasion of the Baltic States. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It's not irrelevant. As for the second step, it seems to me that last week - in case it corrects me, but it has certainly done so - a further reference was made to the positive opportunity to reopen negotiations with Turkey for its inclusion within our European community. Minister, you teach me that that country began to look at Europe again at the moment when it realized that the dream was falling caressed for a couple of years of a neo-Ottomanesimo, so much so that some actions have been obvious: Turkey was in fact trying to direct its area of influence both towards the historical Balkan peninsula, and towards the countries that look south. Turkey has had very opaque attitudes (you know that too) also by dealing in an unusual way with ISIS for oil supplies. In recent days some newspapers have found that there have been exchanges between Turkey and these countries: it has been discovered that there are military supplies to ISIS coming from Western countries and they are weapons given in payment to oil bought under the bank from Turkey. Allow me to say, Minister, that that country put us at risk of escalation when it shot down a Russian plane. I do not go into detail, but I think you have experienced, like us, the concern that Russia and Turkey should be in a situation of belligerence and that we ourselves, as allies in NATO, should be in a situation of war. Syria needs to find concrete solutions. There is also a concrete passage: we have seen how many actors that difficult situation takes place and we must not forget any of them. We certainly have Assad, but also Lebanon which is defended in the North by Hezbollah (which we in Europe do not recognize as a terrorist organization, but is so by the United States and other countries) and we have the Kurdish situation. I see you will return to a summit on Syria. Our concern, yours and the international community, will be to understand what the mediation solution with the Assad Presidency can be in the liberated areas. I do not want to go too far, so I conclude with a reasoning. I was telling you about ISIS and I know that this definition also implies particularities with respect to international perception. I speak of ISIS as a State; I do not want to recognize it as such, but they recognize themselves as a State and in that way act on the territories they control, because they pay salaries and have officials. Well, those salaries and those officials need funding and for that I told you that in their self-knowledge as a state there is a further step. Known news reports that in a few years from Saudi countries, including through sovereign funds, 100 billion dollars have come to terrorism and to ISIS; I repeat: 100 billion dollars. I shall conclude, Mr President, with some considerations that may seem harsh, but I think they fit in with the firm response of the Western community, not only in Italy, to this situation. We have to get past the time of the "turning" the other cheek. You said so yourself, but a certain type of mode is needed. I think we should at least let them know that there is also an eye for an eye. "Ira di Dio" is not an imprecation, but the name of the operation that put the Israelis in place after the massacre at the Munich Olympics. Those gentlemen who, perhaps in some building in London, are doing financial triangulations must know that in the morning, perhaps while they go to the office, something can happen. Some swamped Saudis turning on the car in the morning - I'm talking about people who use others (because they're not the ones who explode) for their own interests or other reasons using the evil stimuli of the bad teachers - could also light something else. I do not care if those who flank, finance and organize are in Brussels, Syria or on the outskirts of Paris; there is an upper plan - you know it better than I do - in which great interests are moving and which aims to finance these horrible realities. They must know that they cannot sleep in the same bed every night, because the Western community will be able to answer them firmly. Minister, we will never know these things, but they should be done. Perhaps we should start telling these evil and evil lords, who certainly do not even represent their own civilization. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u10	Senator Ferrara Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister, I had asked for your presence and we were right because that of other representatives, even more entitled, would risk presenting to this House a further show and other hands put in the pocket. We certainly do not need this. Italy and Parliament, through the delegation received from the voters, need to receive communications and information such as those provided by you. Instinctively, at the end of his speech, I had evaluated the part relating to the commemoration greater than that of reflection, almost as if it were too long to understand and short to react. Then, King Melius perpensa, I considered that the reaction part, after the first part of the commemoration, was nouned in saying clearly in this Assembly: Daesh will have no respite. That is the real meaning of your speech and that is what I want to grasp. The governments' duty to balance the politically correct with the need for reaction certainly leads to interventions such as its own. Popularism dies of populism. What has happened in the United Kingdom should perhaps be taught to all Western governments. Our country, inserted in the Western context, has a long tradition, beyond the sometimes excessive and complaining behaviors. Immediately after the Second World War, in fact, on the occasion of the most heinous acts against our citizens killed in the massacre in Kindu in 1961, even if in that case it was 13 aviators, the reaction was firm, politically correct and fundamental because expressed within a sector, determined as that of the UN. The reaction in Central Africa was such that in the following decades the Western world's view of Central Africa changed completely. The same thing happened, then - always to speak of heinous massacres - on the occasion of the horrendous and beastly killing of seven seafarers in Algeria. Even then, within the European community, an excellent action was carried out by the Italian Government; a reaction from the European community, and, if not the immediate solution, an understanding that determined a subsequent phase of relations between North Africa and Europe, which no longer recorded any such nefariousness. On the one hand, I am led to evaluate the intervention with attention and gratitude; on the other hand - I am addressing the majority in this case - I have a great concern, namely that the Government is not able to integrate itself, in its apicality, in a context of reasoning of the Western world, which recalls those who should be the allies of that world to an overall action that can lead to a definite and conclusive reaction of this incredible phase, in which we speak too much. We do not have a Marshall Plan, we do not have a reaction on the other hand, like the one so many times desired and for which you must act, on the one hand, with the necessary institutional confidentiality and, on the other hand, with the involvement, also this necessary in the democratic world, of Parliament and the people in order to receive their delegation. And what we want to give you is a tough delegation, which finally begins to conclude this report. This morning with Senator Giovanardi we wondered what the world would be today if, when Hitler invaded Poland, another Munich Pact had been signed, or if there had not been a reaction from the Western world to the Japanese invasion of the East. Our reaction to Islamic terrorism can no longer be assessed through the politically correct "-."In this case, there are reactions such as Brexit, Trump's success and the poor consideration that the Bedouin-Islamic world demonstrates in its action against the Western world. I want to evaluate his sentence; I repeat: "Daesh will have no truce," as if to say enough and to want to open up to a different season, in which understanding can only determine - I stress this once again - a harsh, definitive reaction. [[Applause from Senators Davico and Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u12	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u13	Mr President, Minister, the outcome of the autopsies on the bodies of our countrymen tortured and killed in Dhaka has added horror to horror, and the timely reconstruction of the massacre by Minister Gentiloni Silveri should lead everyone, in this very serious situation, to concentrate exclusively on the renewed mourning and defence of the national interest, in the now common awareness that the war in progress is also affecting us. On the part of the Government we expect a strict attitude to demand from the Bengali authorities the utmost clarity as to why there has been no efficient cooperation in the management of this tragic affair; but this is not a controversy, because it is not the time for controversy. Islamic terrorism is indeed a global threat and Italy is at the forefront as well as the whole West. A West that has made strategic mistakes in dealing with this asymmetrical war that Europe now calls a hybrid threat and is taking the necessary counter-measures for internal and external security with a counter-agenda that, however, provides - as always in this European Union - too long reaction times, because we are talking about mid-2017. The threat, however, is terrible and current and must be faced immediately with the most suitable means. Italy defended its national dignity after the assassination of Giulio Regeni, recalling the ambassador from Cairo and then suspending supplies for the F-16 to Egypt. However, without sacrificing the search for truth, it would be a dramatic mistake not to put an end to this negative escalation in relations with a strategic country in the fight against terrorism. Similarly, the anti-terrorist cooperation project between NATO and Russia, another crucial partner in this war, must be resumed immediately. In my opinion, three teachings emerge from the attack in Dhaka, such as those in Paris, Brussels, Orlando, Istanbul and Baghdad. Firstly, as you also mentioned, Minister, Islamic terrorism is not the product of hunger or social inequalities: it is not Daesh, it is not Al Qaeda and its sowers of death, almost all of them children of the high bourgeoisie of the Islamic countries or of families that have long been integrated in the West. Moreover, the equation of immigration equals terrorism is at least forced, even if it is possible to demand stricter control of our borders, which are also European ones, in the face of such migration. Secondly, Islamic terrorism indiscriminately affects not only Westerners and Christians, but also Muslims who do not accept violence and terror. However, the so-called moderate Islamic world can expect a much stronger and more convinced distance. Thirdly, ISIS is losing ground at military level in Syria, Iraq and Libya. The Caliphate decomposes and this causes him to adopt the original scheme of Al Qaeda: to sow terror among us in an attempt to create chaos and divide us. However, closing in on exasperated nationalisms that undermine the unity of democracies would be the wrong answer. Finally, I think it is necessary to reflect on the fact that while the offensive of Islamic terrorism is in full swing, the Republican candidate to the White House Donald Trump said that the United States should not have destabilised Iraq and that the world would be better if dictators like Saddam Hussein or Gaddafi were still in power. This is a superficial and inaccurate analysis, because conflicts in the Islamic world were not created by the West and ISIS was not born because of us. We must also reflect on the fact that Britain, with the Chilcot report, is accusing former Prime Minister Tony Blair precisely of the 2003 war in Iraq and just as the offensive of Islamic terrorism is at its peak. Perhaps this is a senseless sign of weakness or, perhaps, this is the true strength of the West: the strength of democracies that can be wrong, but then they know how to question themselves, unlike theocratic regimes. It is also by winning this cultural battle, which must involve the Muslim world, that one can be right about Islamic terrorism. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u14	Mr President, Minister, the attack on Dhaka is a further serious incident, part of a strategy of terror involving European and Western countries and, from a global point of view, those who in the Arab countries, Africa or other regional scenarios oppose the bloodthirsty strategy of ISIS. At the same time, the assassination of nine of our countrymen and of the other victims in Dhaka has some aspects that have never been known to date, which require further reflection. It is in fact essential to focus on the non-random nature of Italian victims as the primary objective of terrorist action in Dhaka, although (as you said, Minister) it is necessary to be clear that terrorist madness generally sees Westerners and foreigners as a target. It is essential to reflect on the fact that the attack of Dhaka associates a further way of attacking the multiple identities and techniques that are the distinctive feature of ISIS, its cells and its jihadist-inspired followers in the different geopolitical scenarios of crisis and in the most exposed regional areas. In other words, the dynamics and the perpetrators of the attack in Dhaka can, at the state of the information, constitute an even more complex reality than the terrorist challenge. It is a global scenario in which cells are present at the same time part of the terrorist organization of ISIS, local groups trained by ISIS, which refer to the objectives and the totalizing ideology of radical Islamism and, finally, local and completely autonomous kamikaze cells and kamikaze, which contribute to spreading and realizing the war of ISIS or, more generally, terrorist madness, but which cannot be assimilated to ISIS or other organized structures. This last hypothesis may be the most credited in the attack of Dhaka, but what is now fundamental to understand is that to the terrorist strategy of ISIS it is inevitable to associate nature, authors and techniques of terror multiple and different. For this reason, too, we share the commitment of the Government, the President of the Council and yours, Minister for Foreign Affairs, both at European level, and in the confrontation between the various international bodies, as well as in the relationship with Russia, with regard to the positions and policies that must be put in place in order to overcome the shortcomings and delays of the Western strategy towards ISIS. Unitary and global strategies are needed in response to the terrorism of ISIS or other realities that belong to radical Islamism, primarily by the European Union, the United States, Western countries, Russia, but also by the countries or communities that in the Arab world are the object of the war carried out by ISIS and by other realities that are or are identified in the jihadists. There can be no unilateral responses that refer to the different national interests and that, for this reason, individual countries consider more appropriate. From a strategic point of view, it has been and would be a partial, fragmented, weak vision without an effective vision. It is basically the scenario within which ISIS has developed, as an organism of terror and military subject that covers the borders and territories of Syria and Iraq. There are therefore no exclusively national strategies possible: either the response is of Europe, of an integrated Europe, which is subject to the link between NATO and Russia (as well as has been affirmed by the Government), or the strategy is unambiguous, without hesitation, global, not only military, unitary, or otherwise there are no margins and opportunities to successfully counter terrorist madness. Your communications, Minister, have set out these scenarios in a comprehensive and demanding way, without discounting us; and we share them. In the same way, we appreciate the sincere and touching memory of the victims who have struck and moved us all in this House; indeed, to be honest, almost everyone. I say this because I regret that a colleague did not feel that he should stand up and pay tribute to our fellow countrymen who were killed. These attitudes do not go in the direction of the unity of the national response to the terrorist threat. However, by putting aside any controversy (sincerely not the time), I thank you, Minister, for your information, which we share. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE ePD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u15	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u16	Minister, I have appreciated the meaning of your words this morning and also the fact that you in this House today, and unfortunately also on past occasions when we have been mourning dead in many places in the world, have been able to use measured words and have set up a political line hypothesis of our country, inspired by this level of difficulty and complexity. I also welcome the calls you have made several times to the need, even in my opinion, to respond unitedly, to give the sense of a national Parliament united around what is happening, unfortunately also to our fellow citizens, in various places in the world. Of course, I also join, as colleagues from other groups have done, and as my Group has done in recent days, through the fine words of Senator Mineo, to the closeness to the families of Italian people barbaricly killed in Dacca. I really believe - and I think it was right to say this too - that we must not deceive ourselves that this fight to defeat Daesh is short and quick. We need to know that the asymmetrical war we are talking about will probably continue even when, hopefully soon, Daesh's defeat will be accomplished. Of course, I also want to say with great force to this House and to you that we are really called upon to make an extraordinary effort, to make a huge, political, but also cultural commitment: to know that we must defeat Daesh, we must defeat terror and at the same time we must do so without distorting and changing our democracy. It is probably the most difficult thing we have to do in these hours because of course when episodes such as those of Dhaka happen, the instinct to respond militarily by raising the level of tension is inevitable. I believe, however, that the problem with which we will have to question ourselves in the months and years to come will develop precisely on this point. Battering Daesh means not giving up exactly what democracies in our countries have built over the years. For example, beating Daesh means not giving up, even for a moment, the idea that these democracies are based on solidarity and acceptance, words carved in the history of this Republic. It is also for this reason, Minister, that I wish to extend a heartfelt embrace from this House to the relatives of a young Nigerian man named Emmanuel, who was killed yesterday in front of his wife. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups]] Killed by racism and ignorance; killed, perhaps, even by too many words that then arm dramatic gestures. I therefore believe that the effort to be made is precisely this: in the face of such a strong and dramatic threat, we must safeguard those fundamental principles and values which have meant that these democracies have been an example of solidarity and a possibility of crossing the great issues of our time over the decades without war becoming the only possible horizon. Mr Minister, I would also like to say (and this is also what I believe is a serious and calm reflection that, however, puts at the centre of the debate some issues that we have probably not discussed in recent years) that in order to defeat Daesh we must ask ourselves more seriously than we have done about the causes that have caused it. I was very impressed by what I had read yesterday in the report of the British committee, and not because it was something I did not know. The pacifist movement has in fact said them many times over these years. The point is that he said them in an unheard way, in a lonely way. The point is that that Movement, which denounced as war and terrorism were feeding on each other, unfortunately has been left alone all these years. There was no proper reflection of politics on what was only in the squares, rather than in the parliamentary assemblies, there was the strength to say. I am very impressed to read that the British committee is very clear not only that the war in Iraq in 2003 was wrong, but also that that war was one of the causes through which fundamentalist terrorism was formed. It is too serious a matter not to become the main reflection that we should have in this House. I really think we must have the courage to say in these dramatic hours that if we want to defeat Daesh there are things more effective, more useful and more important than bombings. We must, for example, have the strength to say that in order to defeat Daesh we must do more to stop the flows of financing and selling weapons to those countries that in recent years have indirectly or directly supported Daesh. We must have the strength to say that we need to improve and structure our intelligence services more, for example by increasing supranational coordination. But we must have the strength to say that we will defeat Daesh if we can defeat him not only militarily, but above all culturally. I have said this a thousand times in this House: the commitment of the Islamic countries and the commitment of the Shiite powers are decisive. We must radically rethink the relationships, which have been there in recent years, with the main representatives of the Shiite world. The West has probably also made mistakes in judging that threat even more serious than that represented by the Sunni world. Well, a political strategy must be put in place. I believe, Minister, that you are right to say that we must do so together and that this Parliament must do so without a biased interest, but I think that we must proceed with a rigorous budget, without discounts, of what has happened in recent years. I believe that if we do this, we will be able to comply with the great effort that I tried to call to the beginning of this intervention: defeat Daesh, without changing, not even a millimeter, the democracy of our country and the civilization around which we have worked in recent years. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL, PD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u17	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u18	Mr President, I agree, on behalf of my Group, with the words of the Minister, whom I have found reasonable, serious, like his call for unity, because in the face of these dramatic events involving our fellow countrymen, there can be no room for free thoughts. This tragic, terrible story of Bangladesh shows us that no one is immune, neither outside nor on our national territory. Sometimes I worry a little 'when I hear politicians who very easily declare themselves calm and serene because our Secret Services work better than others. I recommend to all great caution, greater prudence; we trust in the Lord and of course also in the Forces of Order, but let us bear in mind that this is a global battle that does not allow anyone to express easy security. We must also say this to our fellow citizens: no one is above suspicion in the sense of being able to be quiet, neither outside the national territory nor in Italy. And outside the national territory there are no safe places, because when you hit a place like a Cambodian restaurant in Paris, explain to me what symbolism can have not a mosque, not a church, but a Cambodian restaurant in Paris: no one. This proves that there are no areas and areas where someone can be quiet. This is the world that we are living in and in which we must get used to living. Therefore, I believe that we must fight without a neighborhood not only at the Daesh, not only at ISIS, but at all those terrorist groups that are allying themselves in a global fight against civilization. Not against the Christian world, not against the West, woe to make this mistake: we do not make the mistake of thinking that there is a struggle for Christians or the West. If we were to make a macabre accounting of the fallen, perhaps we would realize that in all these attacks, think of the 200 dead in Baghdad, more Muslims have fallen than Christians. Here we try to undermine the foundations of peaceful coexistence between different civilizations and religions. Probably, if we wanted to do a great favor and a great courtesy to these individuals who improperly use Islam, we should say that there is a war of civilizations and religions: they would have obtained the result they want, which is exactly what they urge with all these acts of demonstration. Struggle without neighborhood, I said to everyone, from Daesh to Al Qaeda, from Boko Haram to Al Shabaab. Prevention, repression, mobilization and, allow me, awareness-raising. We also need to talk about this in schools and with our children. We must take pedagogical action, because we must be able to create a capacity (very subtle, let's say the truth), of indignation of public opinion and mobilization of consciences, even of our children and our young people. It is useless to turn off television in front of these facts. It is good, however, to discuss with them, and that the school world also undertakes to develop a common awareness. The appeal to the Italian Islamic community is right: more energy, more strength, more courage in condemnation, less shyness. We think that this Islamic community is a wealth; it is also our Islamic community, just as we have a Jewish community that is our Jewish community, united by centuries-old history and tradition to our country. The same goes for those children who come from those countries and who today symbolically support with us the colors of our national football team. We must ask the official representatives of this community to be less shy and we must work to ensure that there is an Italian school of the Imam, which in some way can train those who in turn have to form. We are obviously at a time of collective stupidity. I see, in fact, fighting against the opening of new mosques. Very well, we do not open any mosque and instead open hundreds of uncontrollable basements. Excuse me, but I prefer there is a mosque rather than hundreds of basements that no one is able to control, let alone police forces. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi]] That's to say that sometimes, with demagogy, you do a lot of damage. In conclusion, the thesis that difficult social extraction produces terrorists has been demolished. On the other hand, only those who did not want to see have not seen in recent years that the terrorist prince, Osama Bin Laden, was born in the vicinity of the Saudi royal family. And all his work is aimed at changing the balance of the Sunni world and Saudi Arabia, contesting the hegemony of the reigning monarchy of the Saūd. If this was valid for the terrorist prince, we certainly did not need to wait for Bangladesh to understand that there is a dramatic issue. Then go recruit some desperate in the Parisian banlieues, that certainly happens. But the phenomenon cannot be explained only with the easy sociology of need because, unfortunately, it is still much more complex. Finally, symbolically, to give this proof of unity, dear Senator De Cristofaro, since you have just mentioned Emmanuel, I too want to associate myself with his memory on behalf of our Parliamentary Group. Let us remember this boy, escaped Boko Haram, who sought serenity and tranquility in our Italy, who worked seriously and had his affections close to him and who found this terrible death to defend the decorum of his girlfriend. Our strength must be the condemnation, without shyness, of events of this kind. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD and Senator Bianconi]] Because it is the power of the superiority of a civilization that finds in the identity and roots of our country a fundamental symbolic element. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u19	Senator Petrocelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u20	Mr President, Minister, some of your words have remained with me and I have mentioned them: you have spoken of easy sociological interpretations, which have been mentioned just now by President Casini, who in this condition, in the attack on Dhaka, would have been for once perhaps finally denied. I agree with you on that. What I absolutely do not agree with is that in his speech there has been a romantic vision of the fight against terrorism, which does not correspond to the reality or even the necessary operations that our Government should first put in place for an effective fight against terrorism. A romantic vision that I noticed especially when you spoke of the symbolic attraction these groups have towards fringes of poor or less poor population. No, Minister, absolutely not; there would be no symbolic attraction to it if these groups did not receive rivers of money, or directly armaments, from Western governments or the Wahabite governments. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But what symbolic attraction would they have if they were with their bare hands? You have completely forgotten in your speech that rivers of "petrodollara" money - if I may allow myself to use this term - come to Daesh, to the other groups and to the crazy shrapnel that these days are showing how the global context of the international terrorist phenomenon is actually changing, because the threat is yes global, Minister, but we must not forget that in the fight against terrorism we must also consider the novelties that in this case are represented by more or less autonomous groups that are licensed to kill. In your speech, Minister, there are some very precise references to how it is necessary to isolate any government that directly or indirectly finances terrorist formations at every latitude, from the Middle East to the Far East, from North Africa to Central Africa, to Eastern Europe. How? With a series of sanctions that my Group has always proposed and that must be started and supported in a serious and tough way at national and European level. It is true that the position of moderate Islamic states is necessary; absolutely yes, but it is also true that coordination of intelligence forces is necessary. All right, but this is possible and can only be achieved if we abandon that romantic vision, if we forcefully press the accelerator on the need to denounce always and in any case the connivances between Western governments and those who are financed and with that money we obtain weapons, military technology and not only, to be used against our citizens. Mr President, Minister, we must have a global vision. In this global vision there are the 250 dead in Baghdad and our dead compatriots, but in his words I read a sort of indication, as to suggest that in that situation, because it happened in these days, our compatriots were indefensible. An indefensibility that at this point is not only metaphorical, because they are perhaps entrepreneurs who go to work in a country; there are hundreds of uncontrolled basements where minors work under conditions of exploitation. Mr Minister, let us remember this fact, which does not erase the respect we have for the Italian victims or any other victims in the attack on Dhaka. However, we must not forget that the logic of capital and profit in some situations leads our fellow countrymen to expose themselves. And those are the uncontrolled basements that I like to remember here now, dear President Casini, and not only those where the Islamics gather very often in Italy; those are also uncontrolled basements. The exhortation that I leave you, Minister, and the contribution that I wish to make on behalf of my Group is never to forget the picture as a whole and not to do so with visions of an absolutely romantic nature. Let's look at the facts. We cut the funds to those who materially finance terrorist formations, because we know who they are; our intelligence knows it and, above all, the intelligence of our allies knows it. These days - you may have deliberately forgotten this - there have been other signs: repeated attacks in the Sa'ūd house, Saudi Arabia, and one above all, in a police station. I leave this question to you, as a final reflection: who puts bombs in the house of the bombers? What is the global design? What is happening in international alliances? What moves, above all, a monarchy to keep the price of crude oil still at such low levels for its own interest, so as to trigger the hunger and greed of international companies? We must be careful, Minister, how we assess the condition and indefensibility of our fellow countrymen. Not only must we not make them indefensible materially, but we must ensure that they are defensible from all points of view, especially from the point of view of the correct, continuous, logical and coherent action of our Government and its Ministry, which in this and in other cases my Group and I have never seen. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Minzolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u22	Mr President, his name was Simona Monti, thirty-three years old, and he was expecting a child. Yet a person like you, who would have been spared even according to the war code of the most heinous organizations, was tortured, slaughtered with a machete, along with the child she had in her womb. I am talking about you, one of the nine Italians murdered in the terrorist attack in Dhaka, to point out to what brutality, to what cruelty, to what absence of humanity, ISIS terrorists arrive, drunk with faith in a mistaken and fundamentalist interpretation of their religion. Yet we are not talking about people who are unaware of ignorance, since the terrorists in question have attended the best schools in Bangladesh. Nor, let alone, is their gesture due to a state of poverty, a feeling of resentment towards a society in which they have been the object of deprivation and exploitation: quite the contrary, they are people who come from wealthy families, who are best placed in that world. I would like to make this premise - and I thank the Government for joining the request made by my Group - because perhaps it is time to tear the veil of hypocrisy with which the politically correct relates to these attacks that are consumed in dozens and dozens of locations around the globe. To say the last: a month ago 49 people were killed in a nightclub in Orlando; just over a week ago 45 people were murdered in Istanbul airport and now, just three days ago, what happened in Baghdad. Exactly, ISIS has found the right recipe to strike where it wants, to globalize terror. And he manages to do it in a way that is certainly more effective and merciless than the now demodé cousins of Al Qaeda. ISIS has become a network, an antenna that radiates hatred all over the globe; in an example that, through the web, collects proselytes in every corner of the world: are organized groups militarily or lone wolves, no matter, everything makes broth. The goal they pursue is that of always: to create an atmosphere of fear and invincibility. It doesn't matter if Dhaka's terrorists were connected more or less directly with ISIS, or not at all, as the authorities of that country claim. The real point is that that group of wretches followed its example, put into practice its proclamations, listened to the calls of Raqqa's beastly madness. They were the actors in that script studied in detail by the affluent minds of the Islamic State in Syria and Libya. They applied the dictates of that franchise of terror that was invented tens of thousands of miles away; dictates and principles that came through the web, through the footage of the Light Institute singing the deeds of ISIS and celebrating its power. Well, if you want to put an end to these mourning, if you don't want to extend the list of heinous crimes committed on the altar of a wrong religion, you have to turn off that antenna that radiates hatred. ISIS needs to lose that halo of power, of impunity that has been built. We must not be content with the military successes, but wipe out quickly, relax what remains of them in Iraq and Syria, creating the premises, if possible, of a great collaboration with the states of moderate Islam and giving a greater boost to a great international coalition in which the United States and Russia really cooperate. Terrorists must not survive more than they should, and the divisions of the international community must be involved. The priority is to put an end to this devastating experience in which terrorism has become a state: then we will be able to invest in culture as the Premier says; we will be able to deal more effectively with the problem of immigration, of refugees of war; we will be able to put order in those damned regions that do not find peace; we will be able to decide the fate of Assad, we will be able to give space to moderate Islam, which continues to fight too timidly with fanaticism, fundamentalism and violence. But everything passes - it is useless to hide it - by the end of ISIS, because in that world, unfortunately, only strength counts. Other speeches are a waste of time and lead to a new attack, a new drama. It is an objective that must be achieved immediately, because time is not an indifferent variable, because the more they spend the months and the more we witness the tail strokes of this organization, the more hatred takes place in some remote corner of the world, without our knowledge. This massacre has been going on for too long. I don't know if it was right to wipe out Saddam's or Gaddafi's regimes. I only know, however, that the international community has a bad habit of opening Pandora's box and letting it rot. I am also struck by a paradox: to strike at Saddam's and Gaddafi's regimes, which were dictatorships but represented sovereign states, the international community in both cases waged wars that lasted just over a month. Then there were the stabilisation periods, which still last, but in both cases the war lasted just over thirty days thanks to a deployment of spectacular forces. Instead, against the terrorism that has become a state, which conducts an asymmetrical war all over the world with the weapons of fear, hatred, torture and mass murder, the initiative of the international community seems slow and sometimes undecided and meanwhile the tentacles of that wrong way of interpreting Islam stretch towards other territories, write other pages of terror. After so long, perhaps the time has come for the international community to say very quickly enough or at least this is the task for which the Italian Government should work. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u23	He is registered to speak Senator Corsini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u24	Mr President, I take the floor on behalf of the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party, and I intend to express an unqualified sharing in the preamble, as well as a keen appreciation for the lucidity of the analyses and the passion of the Minister's intervention. First of all, we associate ourselves with the mourning, the pain for the victims, the suffering of the family and their loved ones, with a feeling of horror and together of human simplicity, of Christian piety and secular pity in the face of a carnage that is the last of a long series (in Paris, Brussels, Ankara, Orlando, Istanbul, Baghdad); a bloody and heinous crime, a cruel massacre perpetrated by fanatics moved by a radical and fundamentalist Islamist ideology. We are faced with the globalization of terror, with a new asymmetrical war, without a line of the front, however, in the time of the Internet and of the absolute, pervasive mediatization. After the recent defeats suffered by Daesh in the land of Sirak, the struggle extends south of the East. It is not merely an export, but it is also the presence of new insurgents. Well, in our opinion, the answer must be pursued by not causing us to be overwhelmed by the accumulation of emotions and resentments, even legitimate and understandable, or by a spirit of vengeance, but by relying on the moves of reason that pursues justice. First of all, who is our enemy? Olivier Roy, one of the most authoritative Islamologists, and with him scholars such as Renzo Guolo, Massimo Campanini, Paolo Branca, speaks of a radicalized Islam, that is, a line of political theology within which theology is the means and politics is the end. This is the ideology of intellectual classes and urban bourgeoisies, of which, moreover, genealogy is known, from Muhammad Abduh to Hasan al-Banna, the founder of Muslim brothers, to Sayyid Qutb: the theology of the uncreated Koran not susceptible to any interpretation, except that literal one, a sort of hostage of Allah, of a kidnapped god, the Muslim faith reduced to unifying ideology, totalitarian, reference of the Caliphate, organized forces, solitary wolves, foreign fighters, subjects mainly cultured in university environment and imbued with the teaching of fanatic preachers. Who, then, is the enemy for ISIS and Daesh? It is certainly the crusader and the unfaithful, but also the apostate, as apostate is Hossein Faraaz, who falls to defend Christian women, Muslim women and men. The enemy is the entire human civilization. There is also - Roy teaches us - a radicalism in Islamist declination that is based on widespread social bases. In this regard, I differ from the interpretation of colleagues whose approach I have largely supported. We cannot forget the third generations in Europe who live on the fringes of our suburbs, in ghetto districts, the disinherited masses, the miserable plebs in the East and in the Saharan and sub-Saharan Africa, which certainly become the basis for maneuvering and outbreak of extremist onset. The line between these two lines lies precisely in the policy of terror which has no territorial and social barriers and which is intertwined with regional conflicts, with historical contrasts, with the intra-Muslim civil war, between Sunnis and Shiites, responsible for the wrong choices of the West. There are also lines of fracture and division between spiritual and religious Islam and political Islam, in turn lacerated between reformists and radicals, between the modernization of Islam and an Islam in total conflict with modernity. The Caliphate thus becomes the metapolitical reference, the retrospective and reactionary utopia, the contemporary equivalent of Nazism. Well, what can be the answers? My sharing with the Minister almost overlaps. First of all, we must remain ourselves and promote and protect our values and our identity, which are called democracy, freedom, dignity, tolerance, rights, equality and secularism. Victory does not depend on the executioners, but on the victims as long as they do not descend on the terrain of barbarism privileged by our enemy. All our solidarity, therefore, with the Nigerian young man who was killed in Fermo by the murderous barbarism of an aggressor. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups and Senators Carraro and Dalla Tor]] Our response lies in the contribution that we can make, together with our Islamic friends, to the birth and development of a European Islam, an Islam that can share the values, principles and practices of European civil culture. The second answer lies in politics. We must precisely identify the enemy and distinguish friends and enemies. We must reappear the Atlantic front, dialogue with Putin's Russia, make it clear to some, monarchies and petromonarchies that the time of double play has expired, that there is no world or land in the middle of Daesh and ISIS. As a third line to be pursued, we must strengthen our security structures, intelligence, police, strengthen prevention mechanisms, react firmly and repression against every terrorist and criminal initiative. We must not, as democrats, be afraid of the word'repression'. [[Applause from Senator Sonego]] We must inflict, with targeted actions, blows aimed at undermining the aura of invincibility, symbolic attraction, Daesh's sources of funding. Finally, we must strengthen and consolidate the unity of our nation, of all democratic forces. Which also means resistance - so to speak - to that misleading temptation that unifies and identifies Muslim and terrorist, refugee and jihadist. This is a distorting prospect, because it is a matter of not being enemies to ourselves, thus allowing our dead, our martyrs, the innocent victims - witnesses of a laborious and enterprising Italy - to be able to rest in peace. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups and Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u25	I declare closed the discussion on the information of the Government. We would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u28	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak to remind the House of Emmanuel Chidi's 36-year-old murderer, Nigerian, asylum seeker, killed in Fermo by a vile and infamous racist attack. And I want to remind you of this murder here because, in order to defeat racism, we need to talk about it first. 11:07 a.m. (Followed by Mr Verducci). Racism is an intolerance that pervades our societies; the son, very often, of an alphabet of fear, of hatred, so very often they allow themselves to run terrible sentences, which then sediment and grow. Yesterday's episode of Fermo is not isolated, if only we are at the recent news, which speaks of aggressions in Parma, Florence. I want to remember the story of Emmanuel and his companion, Chinyery, of their love. To secure their love they fled their country, Nigeria, months ago, to try to save themselves from the murderous madness of Boko Haram's terrorism, which is reaping victims on victims in a bloody growing. Emmanuel and Chinyery crossed Niger, Libya and then, on a dinghy, the sea of Sicily. For the hardness of a terrible journey - we know - Chinyery, pregnant, lost her baby, once arrived in Lampedusa. From Lampedusa they then moved to Fermo, where they first tried to rebuild a new life, waiting for refugee status. Accepted by the community of Capodarco, they were illegitimately married - in an act of almost civil disobedience - by Don Vinicio Albanesi on January 6 of this year in the church of San Marco di Fermo. The new life was dramatically interrupted, with a beastly mode, two afternoons ago, when Emmanuel and Chinyery were crossing one of the city's central streets, a few meters from the main square, and were apostrophated hard by two of our fellow citizens, one of whom repeatedly told Chinyery to be a monkey. In the face of Emmanuel's protests, the answer was an unceasing attack: with a pole unraveled Emmanuel was massacred, repeatedly struck even after losing consciousness, and the violence also fell on his companion Chinyery. After many hours of coma, Emmanuel died yesterday in Fermo Hospital. Madam President, I think that the aggression that has taken place calls into question all of us and above all those who have political and institutional responsibilities. Too often we pretend not to see, exploit and use the language of hatred, fear, ridicule and disrespect. How many cases of feminicide in our country? How many cases of assault on homosexuals in our country? How many racist assault cases in our country? We cannot operate any removal in the face of this tragedy, and hatred and barbarism will not pass. Yesterday the community reacted by organizing a spontaneous torchlight. Madam President, the usual rites will not be enough. We really need a reaction like the one that followed the murder of Jerry Masslo, which took place in 1989 at Villa Literno. At that time I was a boy and I remember well the united reaction of Italian society and all political forces, which also resulted in a very strong legislative initiative. The blows inflicted on Emmanuel and Chinyery are shots inflicted on the entire community of the firm and Italian. We really need to react firmly to what has happened, mobilize all of us in Fermo and make us live concretely and not only chat about those values of our Constitution, which we say here we want to defend, but which we then too often develop outside, in terms of mutual respect, solidarity and understanding for those who flee from despair, war and terrorism. Madam President, I believe that this House should make this very warning. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups and Senators Dalla Tor and Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u29	Senator Bencini, did you intend to speak at the end of the session on this subject? [[Comments of Senator Crosio]] I think it is right to allow those who asked to speak at the end of the sitting to do so now that the matter has been raised. [[Comments of Senators Crosio and Giovanardi.]] The President may allow him to speak at this stage on an issue which is of particular importance and which therefore deserves to be dealt with during the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u32	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak on this subject at the end of the sitting. I believe that Senator Verducci has fully explained what has happened. I would just like to add that - in my opinion - it was a further feminicide because she was offended by a woman and made herself a widow; a woman who decided to donate the organs of her dead husband, who will go to Italians. It is - in my opinion - a great gesture of love. Sorry for the concussion, but I feel involved because it was my job. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]] I worked in the O.R. and, therefore, often found myself having to talk to relatives of the deceased asking them to donate organs that, in cases of violent deaths, are healthy and serve to give life to other people. This woman has been asked to do so and seems to have agreed. So Emmanuel's organs will give life to other people and live in them. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups and Senator Dalla Tor.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u35	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I do not know what happened yesterday. Then we will learn and deepen what has happened. It may be very true that a bastard did a terrible thing, but I find it unpleasant... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Fornaro (PD). There's a limit! Shut up! CARDINALI (PD). Shut up! Shame on you! GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). A lunatic, a coward, a violent... [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] If you'll excuse me... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u36	Senator Giovanardi, I gave you the floor to join the memorial. If you don't know what we're talking about, I don't think...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u37	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Excuse me, I am still free to speak in this Parliament... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Senator Giovanardi keeps talking. Comments from PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Get him out!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u38	Senator Giovanardi, you don't have the floor on the order of business. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] Senator Giovanardi, please stop. I'll call you back to order. You don't have the floor. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] Senator Giovanardi, I'll call you back for the second time. VOICES FROM THE PD AND M5S CATEGORIES. Get out! Get out! Get out! [[Comments from Senator Giovanardi.]] Senator Giovanardi! SANTANGELO (M5S). You're a worm! CARDINALI (PD). You're a racist!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u41	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, this morning we commemorated... [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u42	Colleagues, let Senator Carraro speak. Please, Senator Giovanardi, stop, or I'll have to push you away.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u43	Please, Senator Carraro. Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). This morning we commemorated Italians who were murdered while they were working. The debate that followed the statements of Minister Gentiloni Silveri showed that the country is compact in defending its values. Then a gesture was recalled, to define which there are no words, a gesture of cowardice, which led to the death of a person; and then serious crimes were mentioned. I believe that we all have only one duty: to do our job seriously and to try to respond to people's need to remain united on the fundamental values of the rights of women and men in our country. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Mixed Groups]] For the rest, we have time to divide ourselves, to argue and to emphasize our political differences, that there are and must be, otherwise there would be no democracy anymore. But it is one thing to divide ourselves on the things that divide us and another thing is to know that we belong to a democratic state, that respects men and women of any race, any religion and any belief. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u46	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, first of all - alas - I am not used to it and I am unable - I admit - to run a parliamentary Chamber. I ask you, however, to have a little more of a pulse towards everything we have witnessed so far. I should also like to say that the opening of a debate like this was perhaps not appropriate. But you are the President right now and I respect your decision. Seen and considered that we started talking about what happened, I say, Senator Giovanardi, that I know what happened yesterday, because I learned it from the media: a murderer killed a person. A murderer - I repeat killer - took the life of a person who came to our country, definitely fleeing from a war. This killer must not get away with it, Madam President; this killer is white, but he could also be black, red, yellow, green; he could come from Mars, Fermo, Pavia or who knows what other place in the universe. He's a murderer. Consequently, what we are asking for in this House and which we have been asking for for months, perhaps for years, is that there are three words: certainty of punishment. In Italy there is no certainty of punishment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Liuzzi and Puglia]] And, therefore, in Italy everyone can do what he wants: wake up in the morning and kill a person, so much he knows that nothing happens and nothing happens to him. This is not only the episode of racism that must be condemned, because people judge themselves not by the color of the skin, but by what they have inside, by what they carry and by what they know how to say and do. At the same time, however, with respect to this episode I want to condemn as many, because here we are filling our mouths. Institutions fill their mouths. Finally, we can say how racist and bad Italians are. In these hours the media finally found the killer to throw the cross on and they can talk about poor immigrants, poor people who arrive on the other side of the continent, while we Italians are bad and racist. But I want to remember a boy, an accountant from Velletri, killed point-blank by a gentleman, a murderer, who arrives somewhere else and, therefore, from an outsider. His name was Francesco Pennacchi; no one speaks of Francesco. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] No one in this House has ever spent a word on him. No one in this House has ever spent a word on that couple of pensioners killed by a murderer who came out of the asylum-seekers' reception centre (CARA) in Mineo and killed them and stole their clothes, everything. No one's ever spent a word on them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] No one's ever spent a word on Mr. Kabobo's victims. Nobody! In fact, someone said: "Poor boy, in your country this is how you do it." MIRABELLI (PD). What are you talking about? Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Is that how it's done? And you're leaving! You gotta get out of here! [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u47	Colleagues, let everyone talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u48	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). No one in this House has spent a word... [[Protests from the PD Group.]] President, stand up for your role! Arrigoni (LN-Aut). He was the one who used it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You keep talking and I'm doing my job. I have already called my colleagues to my left to allow them to speak. Continue your intervention. [[Senator Crosio's protests.]] Senator Crosio! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I'm not Senator Giovanardi getting his feet on his head. You enforce your role! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I enforce my role. You, if you want, go on, or you're out of surgery. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). No one has spent a word on the Milan trainmaster whose arm the Latinos have cut off, simply because he asked for the train ticket, because he asked for the train ticket! And, then, before you fill your mouths, think about what's going on in our country because of you! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u49	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law No 10-362-388-395-849-874-B, already approved by the Senate in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Senators Manconi and others, Casson and others, Barani, De Petris and De Cristofaro, Buccarella and others, Torrisi, and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the crime of torture is necessary. Alas, it is not obvious to repeat and emphasize this. Why, ladies and gentlemen? It's simple: it's missing in our code. In so many legislatures it has been tried to include the crime of torture, but all attempts have been failed, legislature after legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have a responsibility together not to miss this important date. The crime of torture is necessary because it is useful to strike particular conducts. Colleagues, our code covers the threat, the violence, the injuries, the murder - serious conduct - with severe penalties. But we do not have a rule capable of affecting the typical crime of torture which, compared to those very serious behaviors, has an accentuated and particular disvalue that deserves the intervention of the legislator. Ladies and gentlemen, the crime of torture is necessary because it responds to the decision to accede to international conventions, first of all to the New York Convention of 10 December 1984, which solemnly calls on all States to provide for the crime of torture, referring to Article 6 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Article 7 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In addition, we are also distant from when, in the European Convention of Strasbourg of 26 November 1987, the institutions and procedures to be adopted by the Member States in order to monitor cases of violation of human rights and torture were defined. Then there is another very topical reason. The introduction of this crime makes our authority grow in the face of the case that already the Senate, with a very strong choice, faced, and yesterday the Chamber did it: I refer to the case of Regens, which commits us all to have a coherent behavior, able to say that our country has all the cards in order. We also have a vast spread of torture in several countries. This morning we recalled the torture of the torture that our Italians had to endure in Dhaka. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this time we must not miss a precious opportunity which qualifies Parliament's work, which takes account of the legislative work to which we are all called beyond the function we have, both by majority and by opposition. Yesterday, in general discussion, the characteristics of the crime of torture emerged. I very much appreciated the intervention of Senator Manconi, President of the Commission to protect human rights here in the Senate, who explained well the characteristics of the crime of torture: he demeans the person, degrades the human condition, wounds and annihilates his dignity, produces inexhaustible suffering and has various punitive purposes, because he often resorts to it to extort information. That is why we must give our consent to the introduction of the torture offence. We, as a Democratic Party, have spent a great deal of time on achieving a balance between the attention to the protection of human rights, which is also being loudly demanded of us in these hours by so many associations, by so many experts and citizens, and the need to ensure the viability of our forces of order. No one has ever thought of weakening its function or inhibiting the democratic use of force. Don't worry. No judgment. No disdain. On the contrary, to put at their service an additional tool to ensure that even their important work can flow along the tracks of maximum correctness and maximum protection of the inviolable rights of people. I think this balance has been achieved. That is why we call on the whole House to vote on this measure. The choice has been made to conceive the structure of the crime as a common crime. This has also been a balanced choice, because torture can be consumed by different subjects. On the skin of our country we have experienced this maturation and the choices that we are now preparing to make. Think of the mafias, the so-called death chambers, where people have been taken and have suffered horrors on their psyche and body. In the end, many of these were also dissolved in acid. Let's think about little Di Matteo. We also think of other forms of crime that we have experienced. Let's think about the cases of which films have also been screened, such as some nursing homes and some kindergartens. That's why we made the choice to consider it a common offense. Of course, we have not shunned ourselves, just as international conventions require us, to anticipate some aggravating factors for the public officer and public service officer. It is a good and fruitful balance, in my view, which can put us in a position to vote and dismiss this measure. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, in this parliamentary term we can write a positive page and be proud of a Parliament that has made choices, has covered a limit and has been able to give a good authority at this particular moment to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u51	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u52	I call the rapporteur, Senator D'Ascola.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u53	Madam President, I would like to reply, given the sensitivity of the subject and the need to clarify matters which may seem to be justified. For this reason, the House must reflect on the points that I shall be able to make here at some point. In the meantime, some criticisms were already apparent from the amendments. When you read the amendments, you understand who proposed them. These criticisms are essentially divided into a sort of double opposition to the text. In one verse, it is said that the crime of torture, as we have thought and written it, would restrict too much the area of criminality. In other words, we would demand a tougher case and an extension of the circle of criminality. On the other hand, it is said that with this rule too dilated (that's why I was talking about criticism of a completely opposite sign) we put the police forces in a condition of difficulty. It is precisely the extreme divergence of the two criticisms that demonstrates the balanced nature of the text that I have already allowed myself to claim in the introductory report. As I am unable to respond to every amendment, because time would not be enough, I have, in a certain sense, classified the proposed amendments by general groups and categories and I will give an answer to them, but I will give an important warning: law is not an ideological category at the extreme, it is not a category of spirit. A standard fits into a system and it would be completely inconsistent to write a rule that does not take account of the system within which it is intended to operate. It is said that, in order to restrict the scope of the rule, we should have introduced a deliberate malpractice, i.e. the adverb "voluntarily": it is a component that is used with a certain frequency in the proposed amendments. The "voluntarily" is certainly superfluous; all crimes are arson and therefore are voluntary. There is no doubt and it would be - I would say - a technical mistake rather embarrassing. As for the choice of the "intentionally" here I say one thing, however obvious: there are certain crimes that, due to their objective structure, imply conducts that are typically intentional, I would say strongly characterized on the side of the dole. Is it conceivable that those who perform repeated violence and serious threats to a person deprived of personal freedom, who cause those results, do so by fault or do it distractedly, by imprudence, imprudence or negligence? It is clear that the introduction of qualifications of the subjective component is completely superfluous, I would say that this would be a blatant mistake. It also stresses the need to introduce various causes of non-criminality: it is said to be the legitimate use of arms, the need to make use not only of weapons, but of any other means of coercion in order to repel violence or to overcome resistance. Well, these are components of criminal historians in our criminal system. It is clear that these criminals must not and cannot be included within the norm, as they operate independently automatically. Therefore, if the public official has acted in the exercise, precisely, of a legal obligation that characterizes the exercise of his duties in the performance of legitimate orders and moreover non-unionable (not within too much detail of the matter), this public official will not be punishable. The legislator inserts in the general part a whole series of institutions that automatically and without any need for recall apply to the special part. Basically it is said (but this is an opposite criticism): "You have written "violence or threats," however, "reiterate" - one violence or one threat should suffice here." This choice cannot be taken with absolute certainty, because if we had done so, we could not have explained the penalty difference that constitutes the interval that separates private violence or a threat (from a year to three years of imprisonment) from a much more serious crime that reaches ten, twelve years of imprisonment. If only one violence or one threat had been considered sufficient to classify the crime of torture, we would have done nothing but superimpose it with pre-existing crimes: the threat in its non-aggravated or aggravated forms, private violence and other crimes that are contestable. Here we must have the conviction, which is also the result of a trivial finding, that when we talk about torture we intervene on a ground where the rules already exist, different rules that must be contested in competition. It was to be typicalized the form of the murder of torture, but certainly it could not be typicalized by building it on existing norms. Then, of course, case law and doctrine would have played a very easy role in saying that Parliament is inattentive about the system and that it is not culturally coordinated with what we have to do on the contrary. Then it is said that it should be inserted "to have practiced servities" or "to act with cruelty". The cruelty is already there, so I would say that there is a certain distraction on the text: the sufferings are implicated by violence and the rules cannot serve on the surface, on the repetitions, which complicate the process of application. He then criticized the verifiable psychic trauma. I have to take a step back: we could not neglect those psychic injuries, that psychic disease - to use a term more appropriate to language, because injury means, in fact, disease - that had a content of a psychic nature. If, as a result of torture, of any kind, some had suffered a psychic trauma but not a personal injury, it would have been odd a provision which had, on the contrary, provided for punishment only for a physical illness. However, it is clear - and, in a certain sense, the norm is aware but, I might say, even emphatic - that the psychic trauma must be verified, as normally happens in every process. This is a moment of dialogue with a different discipline, which is psychiatry; modern psychiatry has indisputable tools, shared worldwide, for the verification of psychic traumas. It is not that, in this case, we are thinking about the categories of impossible or abstraction. The Thermal Rorschach and the MMPI, just to make some trivial references, are instruments tested by world psychiatry to verify the trauma. However, a good judge - but I would say, every judge - before the declaration of having suffered a psychic trauma inevitably resorts to a verification, which is carried out through the conferral of a psychiatric office. I have also seen that penalty which unfortunately arrives - and I regret to stress it, with a double meaning: unfortunately for the victim, mainly but unfortunately also for the accused, who suffers the consequences - because of the torture to which death results, which is punished with the penalty of thirty years of imprisonment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you should quickly start to conclude. Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. I'm done, then. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me. There was a mistake in the minutation: you can continue, Senator D'Ascola. Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. The sentence comes to thirty years, in case of unwanted death, and of life imprisonment, in case of intentional death. The solution could not be different. In fact, in our order, the crime of kidnapping of a person to whom death, whether wanted or not, is punished in a completely identical way; we could not differentiate two cases, which obviously had to be treated in the same way. We have built, I believe, a balanced rule on the prohibition of rejections, expulsions, extraditions, when there is a real danger that the rejected person will be subjected to torture. In this case, it is claimed, by the norm, that the judgment is personalized. It must be said that a certain person actually runs the risk of being tortured. This individualization of the verification of the risk of torture is, however, mediated by a further evaluation, but ancillary, secondary, by virtue of which it is said that account is also taken of systematic violations of human rights, in case that subject was rejected towards a country where human rights are systematically violated. In addition, we have ruled out the possibility that certain generous immunity of all kinds if it is investigated in the country of origin, i.e. it has already been condemned for torture and I do not believe that this circumstance can be rebuked. Finally, I should like to conclude by saying that I find, frankly, that there is no basis for controversy about the exclusive or even privateistic nature of the crime. Because building the crime in an equivalent way as a crime of the private but also as a crime of the public official means widening its scope. We could not remain insensitive to cases of violence, about which Senator Lumia spoke, which take place in contexts in which subjective qualifications of a publicist type (both that of the public officer, and that of the person responsible for the public service) are obviously not found. It is clear that we have given greater punitive emphasis to the torture carried out by publicist subjects, because they are subjects with respect to which it is right to demand a greater fiscality of fidelity than the obligations incumbent on their functions, but it was unthinkable to leave out the many hypotheses attributable to this text that take place in private contexts. The explanation and reply to the amendments, but also the expression of the opinions that Mr Buemi will take into account, moreover, the openings that we have considered necessary to work for the quality of the amendments and for the goodness of the arguments that were at their base; so that the text is not characterized by a sort of resistance at all costs by those who wrote it, in the sense that it was considered not to accept the many reasonable advices; I repeat that Senator Buemi will take this into account, because we felt that some important indications had to accept them. It is for this reason that I allow myself for the third time - and I apologise for the repetition - to say that this is indeed a balanced text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me for the misunderstanding about the timing. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to respond to the intense debate that has taken place in this branch of Parliament on the introduction of the crime of torture into our system, with the awareness of the historical passage that this represents for our country, both from the point of view of the need to introduce into our legal system a crime that was not foreseen, and for the context that it has produced. I would also like to remind you that the present is one of the obligations that our State has had to fulfil over the years and in this case I would like to give an accurate account of what our country has achieved in terms of preventing torture and adherence to other ways of recalling international treaties. 11.50 a.m. (Follows BEST State Secretary for Justice). So it is not simply an adaptation of a codistic character, but the completion of a path that, as has been authoritatively mentioned here, began many years ago. It is therefore - and important words have been echoed just this morning during the previous debates - that we should give the utmost attention to what our Constitution provides and prescribes in terms of the protection of human rights and the prohibition of torture as well as any cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment. In this respect, I would like to point out that the prohibition is provided for both in the Rome Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in Article 3, and in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, in Article 7. Already the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 10 December 1948 put the prohibition, although with limitations of considerable importance (moral, public order) to this case. Finally, the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Penalties or Treatments, signed in New York on 10 December 1984, has been in force since 26 June 1987. The reference to dates does not seem superfluous or merely noteworthy because I would like to make it clear, from our point of view, that this debate and the adoption of this Convention have been produced in a context - in the mid-1980s - in which there were still many dictatorships at international level. The regime of the dirty war of the Argentine dictatorship had just ended; there were dictatorial regimes in many countries, including in Europe, and there was apartheid in South Africa. The fact that it has been ratified after three years means that only after that time has the 20th country's consent been obtained to make the Convention operational. The fact that in our country with a legislative process led to ratification on 3 November 1988 and then to the real adoption on 11 February 1989, when this authorization was then handed over to the United Nations, I think it must make us reflect not only on today's delays, but also on the difficulty that led to the adoption of this rule. It is also important to point out in detail what Article 1 provides for the notion of torture so that we can be useful in our task of law-making. Any act by which acute physical or mental pain or suffering is inflicted on a person, in particular in order to obtain from that person or from a third person information or confession, to punish it for an act which she or a third person has committed or is suspected of having committed, to intimidate or to exert pressure on her or to intimidate or to exert pressure on a third person, or for any other reason based on any form of discrimination, where such pain or suffering is inflicted by a public official or any other person acting on an official basis, or under his or her incitement, or with his express or tacit consent. This serves to say that what we introduce in our code cannot be included in the cases of offences already foreseen of violence and threat. The Convention is, as far as we are concerned, a founding point of our legal civilization and of the entire assembly of civil countries. The idea that we can assume what is already present within our code as sufficient to punish the crime of torture must be removed, in our opinion, from a discussion that would otherwise appear misleading. It is for this reason that, despite the fact that our country has fulfilled its obligations to submit to the periodic checks of the committees and agencies that preside over the control of the activities, also in the exercise of the public functions, which provide for the possibility of conduct similar to torture, the core of the Convention requires us to legislate. In particular, Articles 1 and 4 in conjunction propose this type of initiative. I will only discuss the amendments in the discussions on the various options represented during the general discussion with the Government's opinion. My task here is to indicate the fundamental core around which this hypothesis of crime is built. The issue, therefore, is also to take into account developments, not only legislation but also conventions, which were then the subject of a subsequent intention by the United Nations. The ratification of the so-called OPCAT, the UN Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and any other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment, which is from 2002, has been authorized by Parliament - think a bit - by Law No. 195 of 2012, with a delay of ten years, with its execution order. The Protocol provides for the national prevention mechanism, which was to be designated or created within one year on the date of entry into force. It is clear that the adoption of the Optional Protocol has not changed, however, the legislative framework within which we have moved. This optional protocol represents a valuable summary of the contribution made not only institutional and governmental bodies but also non-governmental organisations to the preparatory work. This is to give the sense that on this issue and on the sensitivity in the protection of human rights there must always be a fruitful and articulated confrontation with those civil society organisations and not only with the judicial terms, which have contributed so much to raising awareness around these issues. It is for this reason - I would like to remind you - that, also on the basis of precise and systematic references of the international jurisdiction, the National Guarantor of the Inmates was established in our country, with the law 21 February 2014, n. 10. The Council of Europe itself, in which torture is prohibited by Article 3 of the 1950 European Convention on Human Rights and the 1987 European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman and Degrading Penalty or Treatment, has been further implemented by two protocols in 1993. Italy is part of all these instruments and the control body of the European Convention for the Prevention of Torture, the CPT, acts with systematic missions also of control within our country. It is therefore a question of highlighting the regulatory gaps, which are covered here by the specific introduction of the crime, in such a way that there is a specific criminal case. The fact that it has - let me say this - an extension to the private regime also seems to me to be a strengthening of those guarantees which also represent the constitutional obligations to which we must respond. Until now there was no determination of the penalty; this law establishes, and must necessarily be established, a relationship in such a way that the crimes that are condemned can be typed. The same discourse - and perhaps among the most important ones, also due to the appeal that came from judgments of the Supreme Court and the EDU - concerns the limitation of the crime, which up to now, being related to criminal cases explicitly provided by the legislator, was too short compared to those that are foreseen as injury and abuse of office, in Articles 608, 572 and 582 of the penal code. In this sense, the introduction of the crime also sounds this aspect, allowing the prescription not to intervene on a criminal case so hateful. This is just as important as the reference to non-extradition or expulsion to countries where people are at risk of torture. This too represents not only an ambition, but also a deep conviction of our Government regarding its obligations to defend those civil rights that represent the living matter of our country's material Constitution with respect to its presence in the international assembly. I would also like to remind you here of the precise commitments made following judgments, such as that of the so-called Cestaro case. In the so-called Diaz judgment, the Court of Cassation found that, in the absence of an ad hoc offence in the Italian legal order, the violence in question had been prosecuted as personal injury, simple or aggravated, in relation to which, pursuant to Article 157 of the Criminal Code, the limitation had taken place in the course of the proceedings. The applicants could therefore appeal to the Court of Strasbourg for infringement of Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which recognises the right to a fair trial. The lack of remedies precisely because of the lack of such a crime in national law gives us not only an ethical and political responsibility, but also a legal responsibility for the obligations to be fulfilled. So this is not only an almost twenty-year legacy in the application of a convention, but also a strong demand of our jurisdiction for citizens' right to justice to be guaranteed through our legislative action. It was thus also in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights that the elements of infringement were specified, in particular with reference to Article 3, in the matter of prohibition of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment. In this regard, I would like to quote the text of the judgment of the European Court of Strasbourg: The Court considers it necessary that the Italian legal order should be endowed with the legal instruments appropriate to penalise the persons responsible for the acts of torture or other ill-treatment in relation to Article 3 and to prevent the latter from benefiting from measures contrary to the case law of the Court of Justice. I quote only by name, for reasons of brevity and also of fairness to the European Court of Human Rights itself, the pending trials, which concern the Bolzano case and that of the Asti prison. As far as we are concerned, they are elements to be taken into account when taking our political and legislative decision. For this reason, I would also like to point out that the extension of the application of the rule on subjective and objective matters in the case of officials represents a more precise description of the criminal case. It is for this reason that a specific charge has been introduced with regard to police officers and officers, i.e. to ensure - it is our interest and, first of all, the Government - that those who work in full consciousness, according to their duties of office, must be protected and those who abuse their duties must instead be sanctioned. This is why it is important to give the sense of a full capacity for intervention of our Government and our State in prosecuting this crime. Nor should we underestimate the lack of recognition of any conditions of immunity which, within our legal system, can be considered valid in order to oppose the indictment of the crime of torture. This is also important if we are faced with situations in which foreign citizens are involved, with both functional and diplomatic immunity. That is the point of introducing a torture offence. There is our desire to fill the gaps in national law and to establish a rule of closure in the legal system, in relation to the guarantees of all citizens. That is the point of our initiative in full support of Parliament's will to introduce the crime of torture. The explicit prediction of the crime of torture, in addition to what concerns us in the event of an international obligation, tells us that we must reason on the limits of force and the prerogatives of the exercise of force, in such a way that public functions are protected and the inviolable rights of citizens are protected. These are events and rights that must be guaranteed, so that there can be no omission and no capacity for misunderstanding. In this case, the legislator puts himself at the service of jurisdiction, so as to define a more comprehensive, more comprehensive and more functional framework for the pursuit of constitutional obligations and the precise political and civil duties that this House and this Parliament propose. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u55	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u58	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, after listening to the speeches of the rapporteur and the Government, there is even more uncertainty about this measure and what will then be the real reverberation it will have on the guardians of the order. That is why, in accordance with Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, I would ask that we do not proceed to the examination of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u61	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I am in favour of the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles. Indeed, doubts have increased as a result of the debate. I'd like to draw Senator Cappelletti's attention... president. Senator Giovanardi, you speak, then colleagues will listen to you. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). I believe that, in a frank and honest confrontation, one must consider whether the things said are done because they ignore the facts or by bad faith. Yesterday Senator Cappelletti indicated as a case of torture the case of Federico Aldrovandi, saying that there is no doubt that there was torture. I've brought the sentence here, which I respect and which I'm going to read. [[Comments of Senator Castaldi]] Because I think the Senate has to decide...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u62	You're talking about the proposal not to go through the articles, Senator Giovanardi, and you're motivating your position. I would remind you that your speech is on this subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u63	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). The sudden death of Federico Aldrovandi had been motivated by the prosecutor's counsel, that is, the prosecution, for an excited delirium syndrome, due to the ketamine and the drugs that had been taken. On the other hand, the expert report came to different conclusions and the judgment says: It is not reasonably imaginable that four experienced agents such as today's defendants were not aware of the risk of a restriction asphyxiation in the situation in which they found themselves operating, so that it constituted a danger of which the same had to take into account, being known, in particular for those who follow personal defense courses, that any form of pressure on the back and trunk of the subject in a prone position and with the face crushed on the ground, restricting the capacity of expansion of the chest, causes respiratory difficulties. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] So the position they held him in for malice determined the conviction for manslaughter. We must then agree on what happens in cases such as these, manslaughter and not arson. Senator Cappelletti cited Cucchi, Uva, Bianzino and Aldrovandi as cases of torture. You will remember that there was a Committee of Inquiry in the Senate, chaired by Senator Ignazio Marino, with a report filed in the proceedings of Senator Albertina Soliani, who denied any relationship between any beatings and the death of Stefano Cucchi (this is in the proceedings of the Senate). I would therefore like to understand better, and for this reason I support the call for the measure to be brought back to the Commission. Here we speak insistently of crimes that are manslaughterous, where there is no malice, which fall within the professional risk of every policeman or policeman intervening to stop people drunk or drugged or to respond to the request for action by citizens. Well, according to the interpretations that have been given here for the cases cited, including the Uva, in which the carabinieri and the police were acquitted with full formula, we would talk about torture. Four prosecutors called for absolution and were acquitted with full formula. These cases are still referred to as torture cases. It is clear that everything depends on the reading that is given to rules that are still ambiguous. Let us think, for example, of the psychic disturbance that has been established. The rapporteur rightly argues that it will then be the experts who will determine whether or not this psychic disturbance has occurred. Yes, but in the meantime the accusation is that of torture, which is a crime that, in the cases mentioned by my colleague Cappelletti, would cover life imprisonment. The accused and also the ones convicted of manslaughter, negligence or malpractice. I remembered the Preiti case yesterday. According to this interpretation, when the Carabinieri in front of Palazzo Chigi immobilized him, holding him on the ground and put the handcuffs behind his back, if Preiti's heart attack had intervened, as in that case, those Carabinieri, if you call this kind of attitude tortured, would have ended up in life. Well, I understand the concern of citizens and law enforcement. A rethink to better write these norms is necessary because we have seen, heard and have been explicitly said things that are obviously a prejudice to the Forces of order and not a serene assessment of the risks, the dangers and the need to hit the dole. The Savi brothers should be in jail and life seven times for what they've done and so carabinieri and unfaithful cops stained with arson crimes. But when my colleague, Mr Parisi, recalled that a prosecutor said that the Cucchi case is like the Reni case, we must be outraged. Everyone should be indignant with comparisons of this kind with respect to a beastly torture of which Regeni has been victim and has been killed and the cases we are talking about. Of course, if you confuse the two floors you have to be concerned as citizens and as Forces of Order. [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u64	I would remind you that the proposal put forward is not to move on to the examination of the articles, not to a return to the Commission of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u67	THE COURT (PD). Mr President, I would like to express the opposition of the Group of the Party of European Socialists to the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, even on the grounds which have been put forward for this request. It is not up to Parliament to determine in what specific case there has been, whether there will be torture or not. This is a matter for the judiciary, which will do so, as it has already done at national and European level, in the face of sad and well-known events in our country. It is up to us to adopt a general rule without going into the merits of the individual facts of the news. The season of ad personam laws in this country has definitely set. [[Comments from FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups.]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Etruria! THE COURT (PD). We make the laws for all and do not bring into play the credibility of the Forces of Order, which is something that is very dear to us and it is precisely to provide the Forces of Order, that in their almost totality have an attitude of great correctness and as servants of the State, an additional instrument to guarantee the transparency and legitimacy of their action, that we are going to propose today the approval of this provision. [[Applause from the PD Group]] SCOMA (FI-PdL XVII). You go do this job!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u68	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the debate on the Rules of Procedure. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). President, of course, after the Senator Giovanardi's meeting, much has changed, but I do ask for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Interventions are interventions, meetings are done elsewhere. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 10-362-388-395-849-874-B
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u71	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I shall withdraw the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u72	We proceed to the examination of the articles, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies, as proposed by the Commission. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u73	Mr President (with your consent, as you are the first signatory), I would like to announce the withdrawal of the 1,200th amendment and the continuation of the other amendments so that we can have the opportunity to discuss these rules further. The Commission has certainly done a very positive job, so thank you as a whole, but in particular I would like to thank the Senators Palma and Caliendo for the work they have done. However, there is still some doubt about the text of this measure. In particular, the danger is as follows: anyone (and certainly us who are guarantors of the rights of the citizen against any abuse by the State and persons who on behalf of the State have to carry out certain tasks) believes that serious ill-treatment and torture against persons subject to restrictions of their freedom can be condemned in every respect in the most serious way. And the necessary measures must be taken to ensure that this behavior is punished. That is why there is the withdrawal of the 1,200th deletion of the article which would be the deletion of the whole measure. However, what is happening very often in this House must be avoided: that it starts with hateful behavior, which must certainly and severely be punished, but that then the definition and the case are gradually extended, and that it ends with hitting, with the same measure, even completely different measures. There is one thing to add, namely that thanks to the action taken in the Commission we have returned to a text similar to that originally approved by the Senate, which is therefore addressed to everyone. Let us remember that with the text approved by what many would like to be the only House, the most heinous, systematic tortures, which by all could be recognized as serious tortures, would not have been affected by this crime provided it had not been a public officer. Therefore, remaining at the fiction, Hannibal Lecter or, passing on to the sad reality, the "Canaro" would not have been affected by this measure, because it was essentially reserved for the Forces of Order. This is a twist that has been avoided, but it must be remembered that the Forces of Order unfortunately do not always have to do with gentlemen, because they often have to deal with criminals - and this should not surprise - who know very well the tools through which attempt artificially to accuse those who are involved in their difficult surveillance of serious crimes, that with this measure will become even more serious. That is why there are several amendments, which will then be highlighted during the debate, which specifies, for example, that in any case the suffering that can be imposed during the legitimate exercise and in compliance with the law of the public force in demonstrations of public order are exempted. What is quite different is the beating given to a person in prison or arrested compared to the beating inflicted in contrast or in response to attacks suffered during activities of maintenance of public order. When a public order service is carried out, orders shall be carried out and no action shall be taken. In carrying out the order of eviction of violent demonstrators, in fact, it can happen to hit, even repeatedly, a person. We must not confuse those who do their duty with those who, by abusing their role, commit very serious crimes that we all condemn.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u74	Mr President, first of all, I think that a clarification is necessary. On such delicate topics, I find it a sign of little sensitivity to divide into stadium positions, cheering for one position rather than another. And I greatly appreciated the intervention of the President of the Commission in his attempt to strike a balance between the various bodies that are at the root of this measure. On the basis of the President of the Commission's speech, I agree with him that, when we talk about law, law is not a category of spirit. That is precisely why, however, in relation to the amendments we have tabled, we believe that these rules are not so tautological. The element that concerns many of the amendments that we have tabled, such as the one on the question of voluntaryness to be added to the action of cruelty, is very often referred to (and I believe this is the fundamental reason) especially by the UN Convention when, in Article 1, it defines torture as any act by which they are intentionally inflicted on a person severe, physical or mental pain or suffering. Therefore, our insistence is in wanting to reiterate several points, because the amendments concern above all this element, the fact that voluntaryness is that distinctive element through which torture is highlighted the dole. Therefore, the call in these amendments for us is also essential for the final adoption of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u75	Mr President, Amendment 1,262 refers to Article 613-b: 'Incitement of the public official to commit torture'. The amendment, quite simply, aims to increase the edittal penalty provided for in the measure from six months to three years. I have read the text of Article 613-b: The official or the person in charge of a public service who, in the performance of his duties or service, instigates another official or other public service to commit the crime of torture, if the incitement is not accepted or if the incitement is accepted but the crime is not committed, shall be punished with imprisonment from six months to three years. Now the crime of incitement to criminals, provided for by the penal code in Article 414 for any kind of crime, provides for a sentence from one to five years of imprisonment. It is a little difficult to understand why those who incite to commit a crime, such as any other crime, punished with penalties even lower than those we expect for torture (a theft, robbery, any other crime), must be subject to a minimum penalty of one year, while the official public who incites a colleague to torture someone must be punished with a minimum penalty of six months and a maximum of three. I therefore believe that it is to be supported by amendment 1,262 which leads to the edittal window in the case of one to six years of employment, i.e. increased by one more year to the maximum, which, among other things - let us remember - could allow at investigative level the availability of telephone interceptions by the judicial authority, which can often be useful. I believe that, beyond any demagogy or unreasonableness, this is an amendment that takes stock of situations and says that the public officer who instigates torture should be punished in at least the same way as the private citizen who instigates any other crime. It would otherwise be difficult to explain - or until now I have had no explanation - why the penalty should be from six months to three years. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u76	Mr President, in particular on the content of amendment 1,300 (text 2) which we are calling for the deletion of the word'reiterate', I have seen that there are similar amendments tabled by other groups. In fact, yesterday my colleague, Senator Uras, has already explained in his speech in general debate why we are considering the text that we are discussing this morning, unfortunately, after the work of the Senate Justice Commission, which has fallen behind the one fired by the House a few months ago. At the time of the adoption of the measure in the Senate last reading we have already highlighted a very strong element of doubt that in that case made us vote in favour of the measure, but it remained for us the great doubt of introducing this crime in the Italian law, not imagining it as a crime of its own, but as a common crime and, therefore, in some way contrary to the Convention of the UN of 1984 and also to what happens in many legal systems of other countries. Well, that was already a very perplexing point of view and it is clear that from our point of view it would be very wrong if we were to remain in the text what we consider to be even significant deteriorations compared to the work done in the Justice Commission in the House and then in the House a few months ago. We think that it would have been much more correct to refer to the physical or psychological sufferings referred to in the text of the UN Convention; to speak today of re-iterrate violence and verifiable psychic trauma seems to us a way of making the case of torture less identifiable, and that is why we have tabled this amendment which, precisely, provides for the elimination of the word: "reiterate".
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u77	Mr President, I would like to ask if it is possible to subscribe to the amendments of the senators proposing both the elimination of the term "reiterate" and the introduction of the words "inhuman or degrading human dignity": I refer to Senator Casson's amendments 1,213, 1,214 of Senators Buccarella and Cappelletti and to Amendment 1,300 (text 2) just illustrated by Mr De Cristofaro who, in the new wording, requires the elimination of the term "reiterate". In essence, my sub-amendment 1.254/200 calls for the words: "in a specific way" to be replaced by the following: "in any way" to be replaced. It seems to me that it has already been widely illustrated, that the drafting of this bill is already filled with a thousand cautions regarding the determination of the conditions under which these acts which we call torture take place. It seems to me that the term 'in any way' can constitute an adequate compensation for a far too careful definition of the previous part, in which we try to define further the attitude, the style, the will of those who commit these acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u78	Mr President, if we read the text, there is an abysmal difference from what the Undersecretary has read. International legislation says what torture is: when you take a person and submit it - as it is in the collective imagination and in the films - to a whole series of violence to make them confess something or to make them say something, and everyone imagines all the techniques that are used. What, however, is torture according to this text? I read it again to be aware of what we are voting for. Torture is "anyone with (...) serious threats (...) causes (...)" a verifiable psychic trauma; it is called "torture" the serious threat. But not only that. The colleague of the 5 Star Movement said that the penalty must be aggravated for the public official or public service officer who incites another public officer to threaten; and the crime takes place even if the incitement is not accepted, that is, if the incitement is accepted but the crime is not committed. So let's introduce a rule that concerns threats of the type "look that if you don't confess we throw away the key", "be careful that you end up in jail", "be careful 'ndranghetista, camorrista under my control and under interrogation ": it is a threat; if the magistrate tells those who ask to present to the questioned the consequences of his behavior, the risk of ending up in jail thirty years, there is a threat. It is established, therefore, that the threat is torture and that it is punished with these penalties and that one person who incites another to threaten, even if the threat is not done, is condemned the same. I would like to know what is the relevance of this sense of torture and the torture that we want to introduce into our system, that we all have in mind, that is, a very serious thing, that a person who is being held in custody, or kidnapped by a private individual or in the hands of the Forces of Order or the judiciary, suffers certain behaviors. Let's go back to the psychic field. For you, the threat can lead to psychic pressures that - the rapporteur tells us - must then be examined by medical science to see if the actual psychic disturbance that is denounced is true or not true. I imagine that, with this text, any exponent of organized crime ('ndrangheta, camorra or mafia) who will be arrested first will make a complaint for being threatened or treated in a rough way; then at the trial we will see, since these subjects have lawyers and experienced people in these things. We open the way to a definition of torture that is totally different from what people imagine to be torture. I am not talking about theoretical things: it is enough that you take the text and read it for how it was written to realize that what we introduce into the order is a thing aimed at making citizens unarmed in the face of violence and criminals and to put in trouble any exponent of the Forces of Order who has to do a control. In fact, if an officer happens to have to intervene, under these conditions, to block or stop a violent tell me if he can feel protected by these rules.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u81	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to remind everyone that this measure has been approved by this House by a large majority; it has then been amended in the House and the Justice Commission has reconstituted the text voted by the Senate. I wonder whether it is not appropriate to leave only the amendment of the rapporteurs 1.254, which goes along the same lines as the Commission, and to withdraw all the other amendments. In fact, if we have chosen a line, voted by a large majority in this House, I believe that today we cannot deny it by voting on amendments which add or modify small expressions. The text, as it stands, also sheds light on what have been said in the general debate, because it reconstructs, as the rapporteur, Mr D'Ascola, the choice of the Commission and this House: a common offence against the public officials. I think this is the wisest choice, if you want to do it, otherwise we will vote, after which we will see, because obviously if the text voted by the Senate were changed, there probably wouldn't be the same majority that was produced at first reading. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u82	The authors of amendments have the power to confirm or withdraw them, so if they have confirmed them they will have felt that they could do so. The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u83	Mr President, in line with the comments made by the rapporteur, Mr D'Ascola, I would like to say very briefly that opinions are aimed at achieving greater systemic consistency, avoiding redundant concepts and achieving greater conceptual cleanliness of the rule. The spirit is what has already led us in the Commission to assess the substance in a very convergent way. Respecting and appreciating the contribution of all my colleagues, who have gone through the debate in the Commission and in this House and the proposals for amendments that have been tabled, I call for the withdrawal of all the amendments, otherwise I am opposed to the exceptions that I am going to specify. I am in favour of amendment 1,204.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u84	Senator, there is an identical amendment to Senator Centinario's first signature which is also previous.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u85	[[Comments.]] Senator Buemi, do you support Amendments 1,300 (text 2) and 1,204? Mr Buemi, rapporteur. Mr President, I apologise, let me express my views, and then you will interpret them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please also state the number of pages, because a reference to amendment 1,300 (text 2) has been added to the file by hand. Mr Buemi, rapporteur. Let me talk to you, Mr. President. The opinion was in favour of Amendments Nos 1,204 and 1,205 with the following rewording: Without prejudice to the exclusion of the word "reiterate" the following formula remains: "with violence or serious threats." The opinion was also in favour of Amendments Nos 1,300 (text 2), 1,224, 1,225 and 1,226, 1,232. With regard to amendment1.254, we propose a rewording. We ask you to expunge the word "concretely" and keep the words "in an appropriate way". For amendment 1,255 we make the same proposal for rewording. As far as Amendment 1,262 is concerned, I would like to say to Mr Buccarella that this is different from the most serious situation. So, in this sense, I confirm the call for withdrawal otherwise the opinion is against because we are talking about two different things. My colleague, with his amendment, evoked a more serious sanction, but more serious than a more serious one. I'm gonna stop here for now.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u86	Senator Buemi, in order to give a favourable opinion on amendment 1,205 you proposed a rewording with the deletion of the word "reiterate". Therefore, the words would remain: "with violence or serious threats." As this is relevant, I would like to point this out to my colleagues. The opinion was in favour without the word "reiterate".
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u87	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with what the rapporteur has just said.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u90	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I rise to withdraw the amendments, with the exception of those for which a favourable opinion has been expressed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The other amendments tabled by Senator Di Maggio are therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u93	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am very surprised. (Senator Caliendo approaches the bench of the Commissions.) I wish Senator Caliendo would listen to me, even if you tell them, he doesn't give a damn! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caliendo, we follow the order of business. The surgery is done from the microphone. Then you will have the opportunity to clarify in the short way. Tell us, too, so we all hear. Please, Senator Palma. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I am very surprised at the views expressed by the rapporteur. It is clearly in his powers and we take note of it. But I would like to say something very clear to all the senators in this House. This measure, likewise to others, was launched in the Commission with the votes of the Forza Italia party and with a strong contribution to the drafting of the text by the members of the Commission for Justice of Forza Italia. So it happened in the drafting of the first text approved by the Senate and this happened also for the drafting of the text that modified that of the House and that is presented today to the Senate. The action of Forza Italia, which has never been obstructive in the Committee on Justice or in this House, has been enforced in several and many measures that have passed by a very large majority here in this House. I would like to be clear on this point. The fact that Forza Italia's participation in the Commission's work is being distorted by a new majority and that favourable opinions are being given, for example, to the amendments of the members of the 5 Star Movement should make the members of the New Right Centre reflect. It must be clear, then, from a political point of view: if the agreements reached in the Commission are then overturned in this House, we can only take note of them and, of course, senators, draw the necessary political consequences from them. This is tantamount to saying that, given the awareness that will assist the members of the Commission in trying to make some technical changes when these are necessary, the Forza Italia Group will no longer enter into any agreement with the majority in the Commission, with all that follows with regard to multiple and different measures. In the Commission this measure was adopted almost unanimously, but we voted on a text which provided for the minimum sentence of three years, which now aims to increase to four, and which also provided for the word'reiterate', which now, on the basis of an amendment, is being objectively eliminated. Colleagues, the word'reiterate' is now intended to be deleted. It was - in our opinion - important in the light of a change in the House, which basically imagined that it could regulate a torture offence even in the presence of a single threat and one violence, so obviously confusing - I do not know with what knowledge of the law - the crime of torture with other crimes that went against personal safety. When we discussed in the Commission the possibility of returning to the text which provided for threats and violence - this was the original text that was fired from the Senate - it was said, that in the light of that amendment of the House, it was necessary to fortify the concept that a single violence and a single threat were not sufficient to carry out and implement the crime of torture. After that, that is what we wanted to say very frankly to the Assembly: change the text or, with the approval of the New Right Center, do all the new majorities you want with the 5 Star Movement Group. MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Shut up! Shut up, provocateur! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Luigi Marino! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Sit down! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Luigi Marino, I do not see why you, who are always a moderate person, should take such attitudes. Please take your seats. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Sit down! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, I've arranged to call Senator Luigi Marino back. Continue your intervention. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I do what I have to do, but I can't be interrupted all the time by those who go from one side to the other. [[Applause from Senator Marin.]] Then, be it clear to everyone, we will go on with this as with all the other measures: the Group of Forza Italia no longer intends to be the subject of such bullies. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u96	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to speak because we need to clarify the terms of the matter. On the other hand, any senator can do so only if he reads the text of the torture crime in the left column of the file at our disposal. The term "reiterate" never existed at that stage; that is, the Justice Commission, presided over by Senator Palma, dismissed, with the agreement of the Forza Italia component, the text of the torture crime without including the term "reiterate", as everyone can learn by reading the norm that appears in the left column. [[Applause from Senator Cappelletti]] Then, it was introduced in later times (even for a speech of mine), but there is to be observed that this term has posed certain doubts - because we must take account of the issues in content and serious terms, not only for the sake of the advertising of the facts - and we have considered that the term "reiterate" foreshadowed the risk of a sort of habitual crime, namely that it should occur repeatedly over time, and that the plural "violence" or "threat" was sufficient to affirm what I had already said, that is, the need for more conduct of violence or threat. Well, for the elimination of the reiterate, amendments have been tabled by the opposition - and this does not seem to me to be a scandal, of course - but that elimination does not result from an agreement with the opposition - which could have been there, I repeat - but from a reflection of the rapporteurs, which we take into account. We eliminated it because it cannot become a habitual crime, otherwise it responds to torture who tortures every day, and we felt that this was a risk that should not be taken. It is also said that the minimum sentence has been raised from three to four years. This variation has its own precise technical requirement, because - otherwise - the duration of the sentence in the case of serious personal injury with torture would have been shorter than the one foreseen for the crime of serious personal injury without torture. It was, therefore, a precise technical error, which we have resolved ourselves, without informing anyone, as it is appropriate to do when the work takes place seriously. Then there are those who protest, saying that this weakens the police. We have responded by accepting the amendment tabled by Mr Di Maggio, which states that the official is never punishable if he has acted within the duties or powers of the office he holds or the service he provides. This statement is emphatic and, all things considered, could not exist, because it is clear that those who torture work outside the powers and duties that are attributed to them. There would be no doubt that a rule of public law could be envisaged which states that an officer may torture someone. Nevertheless, we have raised the problem - that is to say, to give account to the House and explain the reflections - that there may be suffering inevitably linked to the execution of coercive activities typical of the official and that there may be cases where someone complains that he has been tortured for the exercise of a public power and for the fulfilment of a duty connected with the public sphere. The expression contained in Senator Di Maggio's amendment, which we have agreed with, is intended essentially to say that when action is taken within and within the limits of powers and duties, no one must fear the intervention of the judicial authority. As far as the disturbance is concerned, I should like to speak on this subject and advise you at least to read the measure. In the provision it is written not psychic disturbance, but "trauma". The term "trauma" has a precise medical-legal meaning: it is a term not from a pink novel, but present in the psychiatric literature and verifiable, certifiable through the investigations proper to psychiatric science (here is an inevitable postponement). I considered it necessary to intervene to say that, the rest are polemics. [[Applause from the PD Group]] PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). It's not polemics, it's political!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u97	Amendment 1,200 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,201. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u100	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we wish to speak in an explanation of vote on all the amendments. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I believe that the Rules of Procedure give me the right to speak and without excessive trouble and provocation. If anyone wants a moment of notoriety by provoking, do so, but for me it is completely indifferent. In the logic that we are now beginning to represent, the more you interrupt me and the more we waste time. From a parliamentary point of view, when a political group stiffens, the Senators of the majority group, or pseudo-majority, simply have to shut up and have the patience to listen. Mr President, I listened to Mr D'Ascola's speech after my speech, who said things that are also legally acceptable. But I did not raise a question of substance with regard to the amendments. I had posed a political problem and this problem was very simple: why did not what is happening in this House happen in the Commission and why were these problems not raised in the Commission, in view of the peaceful cooperation that was developing? That's the problem. Then, if the terms "infringement of duties," "reiterate" and so on are better or worse terms to me matter little, because we had all the time in the Commission to address these issues. It seems to us quite unusual that, after the agreement in the Commission, the whole thing should be changed. Amendment 1,200 is deleted. We had imagined that we could withdraw all the amendments to Article 1 in a spirit of serene cooperation, but, in the light of what has happened, we confirm and support them. We do not agree with an Article 1 text such as that which will result after the adoption of the amendments on which a favourable opinion has been expressed. As I said before, if it is true - and I thank the rapporteur, Mr D'Ascola, for reminding the House more of this - that in the first text the term "reiterate" was not there, I explained well why the term "reiterate" was inserted in the new text, precisely in the light of the change and ideological reasoning that was the presupposition of the change that took place in the House. For us the term "reiterate" is absolutely fundamental, as is absolutely fundamental the penalty, which must be delimited in a general enclosure of reasonableness, with reference to the sanctioning system of our code. I really cannot understand why it is so important to go from a minimum of three years to a minimum of four years, when in reality we all know that the thing that counts is a maximum of ten years. We must move to a minimum of four years because, through the abbreviated judgment and the possible granting of generics, however, we must stand on a ceiling of sentence of more than two years and thus be sure to secure the prison for those who commit such a crime? But, my lords, you must finish by raising the minimum of penalties and thus clearly demonstrate your distrust of the actions of the magistrates. Raising the minimum of penalties means only this: dear magistrates, you, when you quantify the penalty that you are actually imposing, always quantify the penalty too low and force us legislators to intervene to increase it, because we no longer trust you. But forget one thing, absolutely fundamental in the sanctioning system: the minimum penalties not particularly high - and I am surprised that the left the real one, represented here, does not take sides on this position - serve the judge in concretely to impose a reasonable penalty against a crime so hateful, but that can be minimal compared to the other types of crime and other types of fact that can realize the same crime. You've done this operation on a lot of crime cases. I'll give you an example. As I recall, for corruption by act contrary to the duties of our own office we have established a penalty that at least is seven or eight years old. We have explained this to you here in this House: that is to say that, for example, if it were ever to be decided that an urban policeman who wants to give you a fine because you drive with a mobile phone (the result is the reduction of two or three driving points), has been corrupted with a gift of 50 euros in cash, to that urban policeman, who has certainly committed a crime of corruption for 50 euros, you are inflicting a penalty in at least eight years. The same is true of road murder, and now it is also the case of torture. There are tortures that deserve not ten years, but probably much more; but there are torture offences that need to be punished as torture, but that require a different kind of sanctioning attitude. In the light of what the text is about to look like, you understand very well that we are not prepared to support the launch of a text which, from our point of view, presents anomalies both in terms of sanctions and in terms of the reconstruction of the fact by the judicial authority. It is clear that when writing with violence or threats, at least two behaviors are referred to, i.e. no reference is made to a slap but at least to two slaps. But when we inserted "reiterate" we imagined something that did not have a minimum temporal dimension, but that had a temporal dimension extended over time, because only if extended over time the threats and violence can lead to that psychic disturbance to which it was previously referred, as well as can lead to the realization of the crime of torture. In view of these arguments, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of amendment 1,201, at the first signature of Senator Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u103	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, in the penal code, Article 612 already provides for a threat offence. The serious threat is ex officio punishable, so there is no need for a lawsuit either. We now introduce serious threats, exactly as serious as those referred to in Article 612, which, if they cause, not physical trauma but psychic trauma, involve a sentence for the official public from five to twelve years. Question: Do you think - I said it before - some arrest for 'ndrangheta, camorra, mafia, organized crime, some criminal will not report, perhaps using some famous lawyer (like lawyer Anselmo, very good at these things), that he has suffered a serious psychic trauma because of the threats received? We approve a rule that tortures the threat, not even repeated. A subject may say that a psychic trauma has resulted from it, and the rapporteur says that psychologists are called in the process to check whether the psychic trauma is really there or not. But this happens in the trial; meanwhile the policeman, the policeman or the magistrate is charged with torture, because this is the crime that we criminalize: those who make one or two serious threats are liable to the accusation of torture result in psychic trauma. Apart from the fact that afterward we also say that the incitement to the threat is enough to receive another punishment so heavy. Amendment 1,201 goes back to the physical sufferings, which are so determinable, and eliminates this alea of the psychic sufferings, which, linked to the threat, becomes an irresponsible sword of Damocles, of which there is no trace in international conventions. But where does it say, in international conventions, that an officer can end up under trial for torture for a serious threat that causes psychic trauma? This is an invention by the Italian Parliament. Not by chance, why does the expression "reiterate" disappear? Because the rapporteur said that a balance had been found. For me it was unsatisfactory, but for Forza Italia it was satisfactory because it thought that the text arrived at this House, between pushes and counter-pushed and with respect to the incredible things written to the House, was still an acceptable compromise. The rapporteur then accepted all the amendments which unbalance the Commission's compromise in the negative sense, eliminating both the expression "reiterate" and "concretely" in the sense that the effects of actions, threats or violence must be concretely verifiable. It has therefore unbalanced everything on the positions of the 5 Star Movement or SEL, that is, on the groups that we know very well, because they have said it and repeated it, they mean as torture also the manslaughter attitudes, and not only the arson ones. And they continue to repeat that in this House, criminalising in advance any police or police action in defence of citizens. This causes police and police officers to take great caution when they have to intervene. I know that they will not act like this, because 99.9% of policemen and policemen have a sense of duty, but there may be someone who, at this point, feels it is better to turn on the other side when intervening, to stop a drunk, an addict, a violent, one who is raping thus putting a life at risk. This is because he knows that if something intervenes and happens, he will certainly receive a complaint the next day and will be put on trial, suffering consequences. His photo will be posted on Facebook and will be said: here is the killer, whether he is convicted or acquitted. Even when they are acquitted, in fact, they are criminalized by a certain area that considers policemen and carabinieri, in principle, enemies to be destroyed. With this rule, and not by voting on this amendment, we are opening the way to these consequences, whose first victims will not be so many policemen and policemen but the citizens, even more defenceless in the face of violence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u105	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u106	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, dissent stems from the fact that I hope that there will be resistance, albeit in limine. And I repeat the invitation I made earlier to withdraw all the amendments. I believe it is necessary, in fact, together with the whole Group of Forza Italia, to introduce a law on torture. However, we also believe that there is a reason for mutual trust in what we are going to do. Perhaps it will also be because of my propensity to seek agreements to have a legislative product that can be shared by large majorities. From this point of view, I would like to point out that when the Forza Italia Group only wanted to propose a small change to the first measure emptying prisons, the President of the Commission, who also belonged to Forza Italia, voted against the party's indication, precisely because we must maintain the balance between what is done in the Commission and what is done in this House. President Zanda called us back last week asking for an account of the work of the Justice Commission. Generally, the Justice Commission, President Zanda, works and finds an agreed solution. But when I go to the rapporteurs and ask if they agree to withdraw all the amendments and say yes and, at the same time, express opinions that upset the text that we have agreed on, it is clear that a situation is created that does not allow us to vote. I then wonder if it is a majority rule to be able to do these operations. However, I had asked not to withdraw the only amendment by the rapporteurs which was in line with the logic introduced in the Commission. Well, that too has been changed with the rapporteur's opinion. When it is said that this is actually appropriate, it was precisely that logic; it is enough to go and see our intervention in the Commission, not "our" understood as by Forza Italia, but by the Democratic Party. So I wonder what's the logic? What happened? Is there a desire to aggregate someone in the majority for whom this logic of voting has changed? For this reason, Mr President, I am abstaining on this amendment, although I share some ideas, in the hope that there will be a general rethinking, possibly suspending the work of this House for a moment, so that we can find a solution and not because we need to have our vote. In fact, if you really want to introduce the crime of torture in our country, know that laws have a different capacity for influence, understanding and conviction on citizens if they have strong parliamentary support. Maybe you don't care and you just need a majority vote. This is wrong. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u108	About what? You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u109	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). In agreement with the Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma has already spoken in consensus, then there was a dissenting intervention, there is no need for a third hypothesis.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u112	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we, as the Group of the North Legacy, share the concerns raised by my fellow Members about the work being carried out today and especially about the opinions expressed on the amendments, especially those who want to remove the word'reiterate'. It surprises us, too, because we do not understand what may have been the path that has led to a different assessment of these amendments today. The inclusion of the term "reiterate" was the result of a reflection made in the Commission, not dictated by blows and majority votes, as will happen now on these amendments, but the result of a careful examination done by the Commission in order to draw up a text that provides for a different crime compared to other criminal cases. The very configuration of the torture offence is not easy. That reproduced in this text follows those provided for by international conventions. The "reiterate" is inherent, because the conduct that integrates a hypothesis of torture, even thinking it in the natural law, in a criminal hypothesis that can be imperceptible, requires the presence of "reiterate conducted", because violence or individual threats - as Senator Palma rightly pointed out earlier - could also be nouned in one or two threats. A hypothesis of torture cannot consist of two threats. But regardless of the substance, since we have had years to study this measure and the time for debate has been there, we do not understand why we can now arrive at this House with this amendment, which not only affects the constituent elements of the crime, but also the penalty. We discussed the penalty itself; we can also see it simply by comparing the texts, the one that came out of the Senate at first reading, that of the Chamber and that of the current one, from whose comparison it emerges that it has been voluntarily decided to provide for a sentence of imprisonment from three to ten years. We do not understand the justification for which the limit of the sentence should now be raised. That is why we, as a North-League Group, are voting in favour of Amendment No 1,201, signed by Senators Gasparri and Malan, because at least this wording provides for the constitutive cases of a torture hypothesis, which at least differs and at this point can be ascertained. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u115	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to call on the rapporteurs to consider, and possibly to imagine suspending the examination of this measure, in order to try to find solutions that see, on such a delicate crime, the maximum unity of Parliament. In this connection, Mr D'Ascola, I would like to ask you to focus your attention on Article 2, to which no amendments have been proposed. Senator D'Ascola, Article 2 provides for the amendment of Article 191 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, inserting paragraph 2-a, which provides for the unusability of statements or information obtained by torture; but there is no provision of any rule or rule of coordination between the conduct of the proceedings in which the declarations are made or the information and the conduct of the torture is assumed. This means, President D'Ascola, that if a trial is being held and certain statements are to be used for the purpose of ascertaining the facts and the affirmation of responsibility, these statements can only be used if the hypothesis of the torture offence is not taken into account, in the sense that they have not been made under torture. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to suspend the process in which statements must be used to await the outcome of the torture trial. You, Mr D'Ascola, and we can imagine how many complaints of allegations extorted under torture will be made for the sole purpose of being suspended the procedure in which statements are to be used? I believe that this aspect, Mr D'Ascola, is important and only you rapporteurs can possibly correct it. The suspension of the work for which I ask you to apply to the Senate has a dual purpose. The first, first, is to correct this aspect further, which I have pointed out to you, which does not seem to me to be small. We are talking about an extremely important issue: with the reports of torture, we could see all the trials in which these statements are to be used paralyzed. But the request also has a political purpose and in this I come back to what Senator Palma and Senator Stefani said. We are trying to ensure that what has been done in the Commission is repeated in this House and that majorities are not changed, because these agreements, while achieving convergence on the one hand, could lead to divergence. For these reasons I insist that the rapporteurs request that this measure be suspended.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u116	There are many requests for action on this subject, and there are already several on topics not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u119	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, your last speech facilitates me in what I would like to say. We have also listened to Senator Falanga, who represents a relevant Group from the point of view of the numerical consistency of the majority, and I believe that the wisest thing, on which we also ask the other Groups to agree, is to postpone the debate on this subject until the next sitting, so I imagine next week, because, as you have already said, the timing is not even compatible with the requests for intervention on this individual amendment. Therefore, the proposal that I would like to make on behalf of the Forza Italia Group is now to suspend the debate on this subject and resume it later, in the hope that a better understanding can be found than the tones we have heard.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u120	I have made requests to the House to speak on the debate in question, and there are also six more on the so-called end-of-session speeches. I do not know if the rapporteurs want to make a proposal, but in fact this is the progress of the work without me doing anything other than my duties. I do not know whether the rapporteurs, I repeat, want to accept the repeated demands.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u123	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, my speech is more political than technical, as it is neither a judge nor a lawyer. I agree with the proposal by Senators Falanga and D'Alì to postpone the continuation of the draft law under consideration. We fully agree with Amendment No 1,201. After about a week of a similar affair, what I am surprised is why we do not realize that, after a work done in the Commission (as I have heard from Senators Caliendo and Palma), with such lightness, almost as amateurs in error, the rapporteurs have expressed a favourable opinion on amendments that would have led to this type of debate. This has an incredible effect and I wonder if we are aware of the consequences of a political climate in which we are told to get along and, as was said about the intervention of Mr Gentiloni Silveri, to be united. Holy Virgin, you have joined the Commission, you work hard and then you accept amendments that would have upset a more or less general agreement already entered into! Politically it is a serious act and it is absurd that we repeat it cyclically, because when we want to make political logic prevail or to punish something, someone or some political force, in the end chaos is born. I therefore support the request made by Senators Falanga and D'Alì when I personally (and perhaps also for the Conservatives and Reformists Group) reiterate a vote in favour of Amendment 1,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u126	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to refer to the remarks and requests made by Senator Falanga, who, from his point of view, explained the need to take time to review and possibly amend the content of Article 2 of the measure, that of statements or information obtained through torture. We must perhaps remind our colleagues, the House and the Presidency that Article 2 has not been amended in the House, it has already had double approval and therefore, even if we wish, we could no longer intervene in the amendment. On the substance, on the request to resume the examination of the measure next Tuesday, I am personally in favour of the idea of the concentration of the debate on a measure on a single day, so that we have an overall view of what has been said and not broken in several days, but on this we are going back to the decision of the Presidency. Finally, Mr President, allow me to express a word of solidarity to the members of the Forces of Order who, once again, are seen, despite them, the object and subject of exploitation, on the one hand or on the other, when, in our opinion in this House, we should stand firm on the reasonable and pragmatic assessments of the goodness of a text, without yielding to the temptation to pull jackets, wink or, otherwise, to almost intimidate the members of the Forces of Order, whose closeness by the 5 Star Movement has always been the subject of political actions of defence, starting with their working conditions and the instruments they are endowed with. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u128	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u129	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am not dissenting on the basis of your amendment, President, and Senator Malan, of which all of us in the Group, including Senator Caliendo, understand the reasons. And I also disagree a bit with Senator Palma whose intervention, frankly, I found too measured and moderate. And a moderate by definition tells you that. Honestly, I'm hallucinating. Senator Palma was the President of the Justice Commission and closes agreements on behalf of parliamentary groups in the Commission. Today, almost with a "senatoristatesereni" (serene senators), recalling "enricostaisereno" (serene senators), clearly expresses the figure of the government and the behaviour in the Chamber of the Democratic Party and the abusive majority that supports it. We cannot make agreements; the opposition cannot help to write measures and then arrives in this House to abolish or cancel the work done. This is frankly not acceptable. We are contributing to the work with sensible amendments such as those we are discussing. Last week, if I recall correctly, we were asked to vote on the amendment that those who manufacture or hold nuclear devices in our country are sentenced to a minimum of six years' imprisonment. Senator Palma explained to us, again last week, that the six years are not such for various reasons that he knows thanks to his career as a magistrate. When we talk about such arguments, I believe that if a senator of fake majority or fake opposition stands up - for the positions of other groups that define ambiguous is a euphemism - for what he carries on his shoulders he should be listened to by everyone with the utmost attention. When some Democratic Party magistrate gets up to intervene on such issues, I listen to him with respect. I wish that, when Senators Palma or Caliendo intervene, we would all listen to them with the respect that is due to their personal history. I don't honestly hear from them polemics. Senators Palma and Caliendo did well before reminding other senators that we are talking about politics here. A former Minister or Undersecretary of Government does not seek the time to have three minutes of notoriety, having already done so much in life. Here we try to improve some measures. And it has been done in the Commission, but obviously for this Government - I address your representative - it is not important to improve things. And we have seen that the President-in-Office of the Council has also decided to say that the measure on school - to name one - was good for television broadcasting. He did it at Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di The work in the Commission, which is also done by colleagues in the PD, who are struggling and whose embarrassment is obvious, is cancelled. We present the amendments and then everything ends - I say it to the representative of the Government - generally with the phrase "we put the confidence", which cancels all the amendments tabled. This is a demeaning way for Parliament. I turn to the senators and colleagues who always have to accept this "senatoristatesereni" which is the original hashtag I was talking about. And frankly, it seems to me that it is becoming unbearable for you too. The question will be asked why confidence in this Government and its abusive Premier continues to decline. I think you're asking yourself that question. I am sorry because I am Italian and I care about my country, but I am satisfied with how this Government no longer meets the favor of the Italians. Now, if you behave in this way, if you make agreements in the Commission and succeed in having the whole of Parliament's agreement on measures, it means that something meaningful could come out. Then history will tell if the way of the provision has been corrected. We are in opposition without whether or not, but we are waiting for the October referendum, hoping that at least Renzi will keep his word on one thing. First he personalized the referendum and then he said he'd stop doing politics. When it wins no in the October referendum, we will all wait for the subsequent acts and put an end to an attitude towards Parliament that is no longer acceptable. Today we heard from Senators Palma and Caliendo screaming for help. I personally follow the line correctly dictated by Senator Caliendo, who - I remind everyone - is a magistrate and therefore speaks of things he knows well. If we delete the term "reiterate" from the provision, authoritative members who have worked in the Italian judiciary, with important results that are also before everyone's eyes, they are telling us that it changes the whole ratio of the sentence. But is that possible to you? I do not even understand the reason why some Members of this House behave in this way, namely that the term'reiterate' was fundamental to you, then it was no longer fundamental in the Commission and becomes fundamental again in this House. Objectively, I do not understand this attitude unless the objective is to close the House and Senate quickly and go to vote. It's not like reforms! Not that the stated goal, which will not be achieved, to move on to monocameralism! In the end you will also lose those pieces of government, or rather those pieces that give confidence to the government, but elected by our votes, that is, of the center-right voters who, therefore, are opposed to a government so detachably left, to a government presented as new but that was born old. Frankly, this way of proceeding prevents us from helping to improve some of the measures that could arise under a completely different wish. I am therefore opposed to an amendment to your first signature, Mr Gasparri. I do it with regret, just as I have seen the sorry face of Senator Caliendo, I have listened to the conditions and I understand you too. It is not my disagreement with the ratio of the measure. It is the dissension to an attitude of the type "Senatoristatesereni" that objectively does not see us in agreement, but that we fight strongly. We hope that the October referendum will finally close this negative experience. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u132	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all, I note that there has been support for the legitimate request of the representative of the 5 Star Movement to proceed with the electronic vote. However, since it is marbled in the board, I wonder if that support is still relevant in the light of the absence of many Members who were present before. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I therefore believe, Mr President, that the verification of support for that request should be repeated, if necessary. It is clear that, when this happens, it will be my care to ask first for a quorum check. In the event, Mr President, that you should conform to the practice we have known here in the Senate - or rather that we have been told - and therefore essentially proceed to the vote, considering that the support of multiple ghosts is sufficient, I would be grateful, as I would be grateful to the signatories of the amendment, for allowing a split vote. In essence, President, in the light of Senator Marin's dissenting intervention, but mainly - without taking anything away from Senator Marin - of Senator Caliendo, I am obliged to ask for the separate vote of amendment 1,201, putting the first part to the vote: If I have interpreted Mr Caliendo's thinking correctly, I have the feeling that, apart from the political reasons widely expressed earlier, dissent was also about the substance with regard to one of the two parts of the amendment. You, Mr President, understand that, beyond the personal positions expressed by Senator Caliendo and, more generally, also by Senator Marin, I feel the need for the Forza Italia Group to be compact in this House at least on that part of the amendment that can be found - as I imagine - not only by Senator Caliendo, but also by Senator Marin.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u133	Senator Palma, I would ask you to explain the proposal specifically. I do not ask you to do so as the author of the amendment, but because the offices need clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u134	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask you to vote on the first part of the amendment to the word "declarations" (obviously including the words: "it is punished with imprisonment from three to eight years") and, separately, on the second part: "i.e. due to ethnicity, sexual orientation or political or religious opinions." I make this request hoping that I will not misunderstand Senator Caliendo's intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u135	Senator Palma, you made your request. There are doubts about reading and understanding the norm. When we proceed to the vote, we will evaluate to understand better, also because - as you teach me - the rules of criminal law must be punctual.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u136	Excuse me, Mr President, but since I would not like some people to imagine wanting to proceed to the vote by taking advantage of the absence of majority senators in the Chamber, I think it might be appropriate to warn them, through the use of the microphone.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u137	Senator Palma, as you will not miss, seems to me that we have arrived at the moment when it is necessary to allow the conduct of the interventions at the end of the session that - as has been announced - are numerous. I believe that those who have said before that these interventions are not compulsory would now like to urge them. It cannot be said that end-of-session interventions are sometimes indispensable in their repetitiveness and that others are not done. I'm not an enthusiastic supporter, but it's a practice. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u140	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking for a very curious fact which has taken place and which is somewhat the figure of how the President of the Council of Ministers considers the deadline for the referendum next October. Among other things, I would also ask you to take into account what I am going to say as a Member of the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services. Mr President, there is a site that is propaganda the vote for the yes. Of course, it has the names of illustrious characters who support the yes to the constitutional referendum next autumn: Giorgio Napolitano, President Finocchiaro and our colleague, who has never been seen here, Renzo Piano, who did not take part in any vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He came once. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Once. Great President! You have a stronger memory than I do. There is also the name of Benigni who, of course, never says no, has changed his mind about the most beautiful Constitution in the world. Until last Saturday there was also the name of Gianluigi Buffon, who then, suddenly, was removed. I have to say that I must be careful with those who have lent their "yes" to President Renzi, because it is clear that President Renzi is bad luck. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Keep a proper language, Senator. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). It's bad luck, or it's bad luck. It's a menagram. Mr President, it is clear at this point that those who have given him his support must be afraid of being removed in turn, and I hope only from the web and not from the terrestrial globe. This, however, gives the idea of the seriousness with which this person is facing the October referendum. It uses for its use and consumption the image of people, thinking that citizens have the ring to the nose and go to vote simply by looking at the most beautiful, as if it were a soap opera. Finally, Mr President, I would ask you to take account of and urge the definition of the timing and the manner in which the committees can access the radio and television service. The date of the referendum has not yet been set, but we do not want to make it oddly to arrive at that deadline, that is, with the last forty days of equality between the Committee for the 'yes' and the Committee for the 'no' and with all the previous months of July, August and probably also September in which the Committee for the 'yes', being at the hands of the President of the Council Renzi, will have free space on all public televisions. This would be a further outrage to the democratic right of citizens to know, because the reform of the Constitution is a great false, apocryphal and, moreover, not even healthy for the good of citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u141	I do not enter the football clubs, but it cannot be excluded, Senator Candiani, that Buffon has rethinked it and has moved on to the side of the "no". We don't know that; it may be that getting deleted from the site was a request from Buffon. Let's leave the question in the air, waiting for someone to clear it up.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u144	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have had a debate on the information of Mr Gentiloni Silveri on the Dhaka massacre, followed by a debate which included the very serious incident in Fermo, with the killing of a young African at the hands of a murderer in our home with obvious racist motives. I believe that not all interventions have gone in the sense of institutional responsibility, which for me today plays a fundamental role at all levels: from the parliamentary level up to the territorial level. A city councilman is also an official public and represents the community. Now you will understand why I focus on the local, through reading a publication on a Facebook profile, which reads: This is one of the Italian victims in Dacca. Months ago, after the Paris bombing, he proudly published his signature to the petition on Change.org. Fate is sometimes mockery and wanted it to be killed by "bastards" because he did not know the verses of the Qur'an. In this way, the neoconsigliere of majority of the Municipality of Novara Ivan De Grandis, of Brothers of Italy, comments on social media the death of an Italian at the hands of ISIS terrorists in Dacca. Adele Puglisi, after the attacks in Paris, had supported from her Facebook profile the petition against the director of "Libero" for the front page of the newspaper entitled "Bastardi Islamici" (Islamic Bastards). We are talking about language of hatred and incitement to racial hatred, a topic that concerns not only journalists, but the entire real and virtual agora that affects all of us; a theme on which even teachers, who are often invoked in the activating of educational processes - we did it also this morning - are alone and cannot face the battle alone, if it is not common. The story arrived yesterday at the national chronicles, stirring up indignation and protests. As a Member of the European Parliament from Novara, as a member of the Commission for Human Rights, I have stigmatized, among other things, without even mentioning the author, this way of making politics devoid of the slightest responsibility, of due respect, but also of a minimum of empathy, as well as of good taste. I had invited the newly elected mayor, exponent of the North League, to distance himself from those statements; an appeal made by several parts, especially by many Novara people who are not recognized in those words written by an institutional representative of the community. Well, neither the mayor nor the junta have addressed this issue; not even a minute's silence for the nine victims of Dhaka, requested and obtained by a democratic councilwoman last night at the first city council. The first citizen has limited himself to a few comments in the local newspapers this morning where he invited De Grandis to apologize if he bumped - only his words - without wanting the sensitivity of anyone. Not bad for those who presented themselves to the citizens as the mayor of all. Worse, much worse than him the Novara congressman Gaetano Nastri, happens to the same party of Councilman De Grandis. Tapes, as a genuine honourable Member, said that "instrumental polemics lack respect for the victim even more than the contested post": an inexcusable insult to everyone, without distinction, those who have allowed themselves to complain. What has happened in Novara in recent hours, ladies and gentlemen, is symptomatic of how quickly the knots of becero populism reach the comb. Playing on the protest to emerge in the electoral campaign can certainly reward, but the results are these: create a deep groove between common feeling and institutions. We are talking about values, identity and humanity. The victims of terrorism in Novara arrived in 2003 with the killing of Luciano Tadiotto; then, in Tunis, last year, Franco Caldara. The city of Novara had organized a march of solidarity with the Islamic community to say no to terrorism. Novara is the city that is close to the family of Dr. Rita Fossaceca, engaged on the humanitarian front in Kenya on the side of children and barbarically killed while defending her mother from a commando of robbers. This is Novara: an open community, solidarity, capable of looking to the future with confidence and without fear; a patrimony of hope that today is endangered by xenophobia, ignorance and anyquism. It is our responsibility to react to prevent such incidents from being trivialized even when using the web. Some messages can't pass. And, after the intervention this morning of the League's Parent Company, it becomes even more valuable to remember the choice of Adele Puglisi, who opposed the language of hatred that sows intolerance, often prelude to unprecedented violence. For this reason, just this morning it is important that the full solidarity with the other eight Italians of Dacca emerges loud and clear from these benches, but also to Emmanuel, who died in Italy at the hands of the same hatred that makes us write in the newspapers "Bastardi Islamici". [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Berger and Campanella. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u147	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, I have already made a few speeches on water - it is our biggest source of life, since we are 60% water - and I have already spoken of pollution. This time I want to talk about river management, because there are tools that allow popular participation. The rivers are the cradle of civilization, they are absolutely indispensable for our survival, they are one of the few sources of fresh water and, therefore, they must be treated in the best possible way. There is an instrument, called a river contract, which is an example of democracy directed from below; it already has thirty years of life as a regulatory tool and allows stakeholders and all interested people to have a direct power in managing such a valuable and vital public good. Among other things, right here in Lazio, along the Tiber, there is an example of a river contract that is working well, and that is now being implemented also in other areas of Italy, such as Veneto, from which I come. There is a project that is being carried out, the contract of river Meolo Vallio Musestre, which is so good that a beautiful television report was dedicated to him in the first evening on Raitre, within the broadcast "Scala Mercalli". It is a project on which many citizens have spent themselves, activists and not, of any political color, because it is absolutely heterogeneous, but that has interrupted towards the end of last year for reasons unknown to us today. This contract involves six municipalities: Carbonera, San Biagio di Callalta (where I live), Meolo, Roncade, Monastier di Treviso and Breda di Piave. The activists of the 5 Star Movement have asked them in these months, but they have not received any answer on why, the procedure to implement this contract is blocked. So, officially, the reason is unknown, but, unofficially, we know of the pressures, more or less orthodox, made to block it. Evidently, someone finds this contract uncomfortable. Some people do not like that citizens can have greater powers of direction in the management of an asset as important as the river. And not to mention names, I make it clear that this someone could be the reclamation consortia. Does anyone fear for some small or great personal power? Be concerned and continue to fear because we, as the 5 Star Movement, will continue to ask for the implementation of this project of participatory democracy from below and we will not stop. I ask the six municipal administrations that I mentioned before to give us an official answer on why this project is blocked and to do everything they have the power to do to take it back and bring it to completion. [[Applause from Senator Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u150	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of the Senate to this fact, which I consider to be very serious and, to some extent, scandalous. Three fatal accidents took place in five days in the province of Vicenza. It's all three accidents at work. All three workers were crushed or died for reasons related to the crushing caused by the means they were leading. My speech, however, does not want to draw attention to the need to respect the rules and rules on safety at work, but to denounce a scandal regarding relief. As they rushed to the rescue, the firefighters were appeased. The guards were running to extract the victim of one of the accidents from the plates, but they couldn't get there because their vehicle was damaged. Well, Mr President, just a few days ago I visited that firehouse together with the Vice President of the Luigi Di Maio Chamber. The joke we made when we entered that barracks and we saw the state of the equipment in its endowment was to ask if that was the firefighter's media museum by chance. I would also like to point out, Mr President, that the failure was foreseeable, that it was no accident. According to the trade unions, the means provided have at least twenty-five years of service. I have seen them, however, I think that the years are probably many more. We need to clarify blame and responsibility at this time. Surely those means had to be renewed and surely the administration is aware of the facts. The firemen's vehicles must be repaired and, if too old, replaced. We are also waiting for a serious and responsible response, and I conclude, together with the representatives of the fire department, because it is not acceptable that what has happened should happen again.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u153	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, Italian Post Office has been producing useful goods for the State for more than ten years, so for quite some time now. It happens, just when we have a state-owned company that works, what does this government that, as we have always said, is banks, the government that, instead of making measures to help citizens against Equitalia, to help citizens who cannot reach the end of the month, will take measures to save banks? In this case, what did you come up with? Already in October 2015, he invented a 30 percent sale of Poste. Precisely because this company helps the state, why do we have to leave it to them? And that's what the Democratic Party said. Let's give them to someone else. And he sold his share of 30 percent. The company has a widespread network - the Post Office is everywhere - that has been created over the years even with the blood and sweat of our fathers and grandparents. And what do they want to do? What does the Democratic Party do? The majority and the center-right, so right and left together - we always said they were the same thing - what do they want to do? Do they want to sell this estate? Already they have sold 30 percent, but in the autumn it is feared that there will be a further 35 percent sale: by adding 30 percent to 35 percent, you have 65 percent. So, the state sells a company that works, a company that gives it profits, and you don't know why. At this point one thing comes to mind: perhaps because it was bothering the financial market? Perhaps because he was annoying those who finance the Democratic Party indirectly through Renzi's banking foundations? President, here we are then in a state where the citizen no longer commands, but the banks. It is not possible to have a Democratic Party that is controlled by the banks and - I add - by the insurance companies. [[Applause from Senator Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u156	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would have liked to have made this speech at the beginning of the sitting, but there was a commemoration by the government of the facts of Dhaka. I'd like to talk about a man, Emmanuel Chidi Namdi, to point out that he was killed by racism. Today Italy is in mourning. Among other things, outside of here, in the newspapers, there is a lot of talk, fortunately, about this crime, about a murder that is not only an act of violence against a human being who has the skin of another color and lives in another country. It's a murder against the values on which our country is based. It's a murder against history and the future. The future - as those who tell the great trends of the development of the Planet - will be increasingly made of mobility of people, who will move from one country to another, from one continent to another. By erecting walls, even ideological ones, we will do nothing but lock ourselves in a prison inside which it will become impossible to live. Today men and women face a great challenge, which is a political challenge: to build a country capable of being well within the present and the future; a present of people's mobility and a future that will increasingly be a meeting of diversity; a future in which respect for human rights must never fail. The colleagues of the League - I heard Senator Centinario this morning - are responsible people. That is why I turn to them to say that certain theses, in fact, fuel hatred and resentment towards the other, towards the different and the foreigner. In the end such reasonings generate the culture ground in which gestures ripen as the one that led to the death of Emmanuel. My colleague Mr Centinario has just made a generalization, mixing in the category "murder" assaults and murders of a different kind and making examples for the penalty, with this murder that has been perpetrated by racism. It is racism the peculiarity of Mr. Chidi's murder. And it is not the first racist aggression in Italy: nourishing the idea of an invasion of our countries, allowed by the laxism of governments, generates not only a consensus poisoned by resentment, but also the opinion that migrations rather than managed can be stopped. And that's a false idea. Ultimately, colleagues of the League, you are deceiving your constituents. You're promising a future that's out of history.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-656.ana.u157	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 14.02 p.m.
