ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2081, 14, 197, 239, 314, 909, 1211, 1231, 1316, 1360, 1745, 1763, 2069 and 2084. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament raised the question of confidence in the adoption of amendment 110000, which is entirely a substitute for the articles of bill 2081. I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Tonini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 110000.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Budget Committee has examined the maxi mum amendment 110000, of course with regard to the financial cover profiles, and it has noted that the amendment is accompanied by a technical report by the Ministry of Justice, which has been boiled down by the General Accounting Office of the State. There are no changes to the text which the Commission had already considered for the purpose of the examination in the Assembly, namely the text of the draft law at the first signature of Senator Cirinna, and in particular, as regards the estimation of the charges provided for in the maxi amendment, it remains in the figures already foreseen. Therefore, with regard to the sum of the three items involving charges - lower IRPEF revenue for tax deduction, higher benefits for family allowances and higher survivor's pension benefits - the expected burden is €3.7 million for 2016, which grow to €22.7 million in 2025. These charges are covered on a regular basis, as certified by the General Accounting Office of the State. It should also be noted that the maxi amendment, of course, shifts the coverage from 2015 - as was foreseen in the text examined earlier - to 2016: therefore the Budget Commission has given a very favourable opinion, from the point of view of financial profiles.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u7	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. In the meantime, in thanking President Tonini for his communication, I am obliged to remind you that the opinion has been taken up by a majority, so with our vote against, as had already been the case during the first assessment of the economic impact of this rule on our public finances, which in our opinion is absolutely underestimated. I would also like to make a point of order, Mr President, because the Rules of Procedure are now completely unnecessary in this House. The good practice of proper institutional relations between the Government and Parliament, often put in place by Deputy Minister Morando on the occasion of the financial manoeuvres, wants the Government to illustrate the differences that the maxi amendment brings with respect to the basic text. We do not have a basic text, but for an assumption known by everyone, inside and outside the House, the basic text, although not hesitated by the Commission, is the one bearing the first signature of Senator Cirinna. It would be institutional correctness for the Government to present to the Assembly the large amendment, which brings about changes and, above all, contains a new set of regulatory references that are not easy to read. I therefore hope that the representative of the Government will, even briefly, explain to the Assembly what are the differences between the text already known and the text proposed by the Government, on which the question of trust has been raised.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u8	Senator D'Alì, as you know, the illustration of the amendments and the maxims is a power and not an obligation. Yesterday there was no illustration of the maxi amendment and therefore, having no requests in this direction from the Government, we proceed to the discussion on the question of trust. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). They're ashamed and they're right! D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). It's a further mischief.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u11	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, this morning I went to the seat of the Constitutional Court, where I was kindly received by the head of the secretariat, Dr Visconti. Both in the Commission, before and in the Chamber, afterward, I asked that before this debate the Senate be informed of the memory that the Government presented to the Constitutional Court on a matter that specifically concerns this bill. By this law, we give a delegation to the Government to modify and reorder the rules in the matter of private international law, providing for the application of the rules of civil union between persons of the same sex governed by Italian laws........................................................................................................................................... As is well known (to the Republic) but not to the Senate, the Government in that memory wrote that it believes that stepchild adoption in Italy is already in force and that it can be applied. That is, the government did not marry the legislation and the jurisprudence in force, but took a stand on an innovative interpretation. I did not get an answer from the Presidency of the Commission, but I did not get an answer from the Presidency of the Senate either. I was told this morning that they will examine legally, since yesterday the problem ended with the declaration of inadmissibility, to know if in the morning they can make known the government's position. In the report of loyal cooperation, this Government has told us for months, both in the Commission and in this House, that it was returning to this House and that it had no position on this matter. Now we know instead that we give the delegation to a Government that has already told us a thesis, in writing with a memory, according to which, even removing the stepchild adoption from this text, however considers it introduced into the Italian order. I believe it is a right of the senators and the Senate to have this document before the general discussion, because we are unable to intervene if the Government does not first inform us of its formal acts, which were not presented to the bar but to the Constitutional Court. And I am also surprised that, although I have raised the problem formally several times, there is a rubber wall in the Presidency: there is no answer, neither positive nor negative. Tell us the Presidency if it considers that the Senate and the senators, in the Government-Parliament relationship (at least as long as Parliament is present), cannot come to the knowledge of the government's acts. Tell us, but don't resort to the rubber wall and don't let us get there until tonight. Should I make a silent intervention in general discussion? Do I have to go into the matter of a delegation to a government that already goes beyond all this debate and arrives at conclusions that are not in the system? Mr President, I really ask you, because of the dignity of the institutions, to give an answer and to enable the Senate to read what the journalists of the Republic have published, but which the Senate has not yet had.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u14	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to support Senator Giovanardi's request. This is a very important aspect because, both from the point of view of trust and from the point of view of the text (which clearly says that the current regime remains in force with regard to adoptions), it is essential to know what the Government has said, which puts confidence in a text on which I refer to after each comment, because syncing them in a few seconds would mean sacrificing the enormousness it contains. The first people who should ask for this are those who are ready to vote for confidence. And I want to reassure the majority and the government that there will obviously be no vote, so your intention to stifle the voice of the Senate and the Italian citizens as a whole remains firm, but at least they must let the government know what it has said to the Constitutional Court on such an important issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u15	Colleagues, the relations between the Senate and the Constitutional Court are governed by Rule 139 of our Rules of Procedure. The relationship between the Government and the Constitutional Court is a relationship in which the Senate is part three. If the government thinks so, it can give the answers it considers appropriate to give here, but there is certainly no compelling role that the Senate can play. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Decency. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). They're sitting there with their heads down and they're not responding... Senator Giovanardi, if someone in the government doesn't get up to give an answer, the only thing you can do is exercise your right to vote in the... GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). And that would be a debate! [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] Senator Giovanardi has submitted a legitimate request to the Government and, just as legitimately, the Government may not respond. This must not be a reason for creating a tension that will certainly not gain anything from this debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u18	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). President, I am speaking to follow what you have said and to tell Senator Giovanardi of averse peace. The Government does not answer: it exercises its choice not to answer and with this it gives an answer. This is a political seat. We note that the government is not responding. Then, let each one draw the proper and appropriate considerations. Senator Giovanardi, this is: your government is not responding. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). It's not my government. I'm in opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u19	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u20	Mr President, when Senator Giovanardi finishes his one-man-show, I begin. I do not know whether by voting in this House we would have succeeded in having the law on civil unions in its entirety. Perhaps, if we had saved him instead of shooting at the kangaroo, we would not be here today to repeat the general discussion on the maxi amendment, which calls for confidence in a bill that was a parliamentary initiative and, above all, in the matter of civil rights and that should have found an audience of absences even different from that of the government. Probably, as Bersani points out, saying that something is always better than nothing is too easy. A kid knows, too. Maybe he's right. The point was, however, to find a summary that would guarantee certain and reliable numbers, after someone made melina by holding back and releasing voting intentions intermittently: now yes, now no, now no, now no, now I know. In the end, they lost the ball that was jumped by those who surely know the political tactics better than many who have been here recently, a perfect assist that strengthens the government. We know how it turned out. It is written in this maxi amendment in which some parts of the measure are revealed, including that, the most discussed, of the adoption of the natural son of the spouse in the civil union, which generated in the well-thought-out reactions to the thought that a child can be loved and raised, as is said in Florence, by two persons of the same sex claiming parental power, which could create further discomfort in this Parliament, as this practice is the prerogative only of heterosexuals. Still, the obligation of fidelity - Catholic reluctance - has been lifted, however, which continues to exist in marriage, but not in civil union because of course it must be well distinguished from marriage, which is seen as the sacrament evidently. For some this is only because civil unions are not sacred, but probably blasphemous and promiscuous, always according to the thought of some. In all cases, I return to the "too easy" and the "too easy" also knows a child, as Bersani said yesterday. I believe that the point we have reached today is not too easy, but the best law that can be obtained with this type of parliament and the majority with which the PD is governed, since the civil unions were a political objective of the PD, today the Government Party, which had obviously revealed in its electoral campaign, as well as the 5 Star Movement. These, however, have forgotten and, instead of responding to the voice of conscience, respond to the voice of the master. If this was a goal for them, it certainly wasn't for the New Right Centre, which didn't exist before the 17th legislature: it was formed in itinere and it wasn't its political objective. So, as Senator Finocchiaro pointed out yesterday, as it is essential for the Democratic Party to implement its government programme, a large amendment can be tabled and the question of trust can also be raised on civil rights. One new thing, but that's it. He's not out of the rules. In this Assembly today I represent Italy of the Values and, although this compromise of law is downward compared to the previous, long-discussed, I believe that we cannot fail to give consent to it, filling a lack of rights and duties for homosexual couples, who for too long have been waiting to have a legalized union. Surely, this bill will not please those to whom it is intended. I hope, therefore, that in a short time the nodes that have been removed can be dissolved, responding concretely to the family realities that exist today and that are the rainbow families, and not only. Moreover, I hope that in the near future civil unions can become egalitarian marriages, like those of the proposal I signed in June 2013, together with the 5 Star Movement, and that it would have wanted a much wider kind of union than the one that had been expected in these days. So, of course, I agree with the new version of this union. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u21	Mr President, we have all failed today. Italy failed. We are the last, as says a book that, collecting data from ISTAT and various studies, highlights how Italy compared to the rest of Europe is last in many fields. It is the last in relation to the protection of children, and with this vote in this House we are proving this. For spending on families it is last. For kindergartens and nursery schools, for education, for teaching, for work, for governability, for research. Even for tourism we are last. We are first, and therefore last, in Europe for the presence of corruption. We're the last ones in justice. We are last because we throw 40% of our waste into landfills. We are the last for digital adaptation and for rights that are indispensable, for civil rights. There are two very serious issues in today's vote. On the one hand, there is confidence in a parliamentary bill. If we do that, it means that it is possible, but, surely, it is not ethically right and desirable. On the other hand, with this super-amendment, the majority bends to the minority, to the interests and the most bietical mentality of a minority that has dragged fundamental rights to the Commission and to this House at a level of squalor that has not respected human dignity. The majority of the Democratic Party has prepared this super amendment with Alfano, with Verdini, with Giovanardi. He wrote this amendment with them, with rights detractors. And yet, the numbers were all there. 199 senators would have voted yes to this law! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Only 121 would vote no. A few days ago, on "Il Fatto Quotidiano," the first title was a "Why?" huge. Why? Why do you decide otherwise when the numbers are there and the majority can vote on a measure that the Senate Offices have also considered being able to discuss and put to the vote in a single week of work? Because it was already decided. There's premeditation in this murder. I repeat: there is premeditation in the murder of this law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As a member of the Democratic Party (not myself or Senators of my Group) said, the PD is a non-existent and incapable party and ultimately decides only Renzi. [[Comments from the PD Group]] It is true, because speaking with some of you I have been told unequivocally that any political observer, even a mediocre one, would have known right away that the 5 Star Movement would never be able to vote for a kangaroo for 500 amendments. If you knew, you wanted to put the issue on two fundamental points. First, try to corrupt, in the sense of contaminating and not to make a passage of money or other advantages. If the kangaroo had passed, the 5 Star Movement would have folded with an absolutely difficult alternative, that is, by giving up a fundamental right, parliamentary right, and a very important and indispensable ethics, that of democracy. As Berlinguer also knew in 1977 in Russia, the right to democracy is one of the indispensable rights. We have been consistent, yet I must say that with the submission of 6,000 amendments I too had lost the axis for a moment, raising doubts and temptations. Fortunately - and I would like to thank my Group - the bar has been kept very clear. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] In this House, in view of the reduction in the number of amendments to 500, it was Mr Alberto Airola who, looking at me, told me that, with 500 amendments, the kangaroo would not be voted on either then or never. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am grateful to him, for he dissolved my doubt and anguish of that moment. To pollute and bribe is never a victory and what we would have brought home would have been a false victory. The super-amendment presented to us now tells us that the majority in government has chosen another majority. She had the numbers and allied herself with others; she had the numbers and wanted to make this law with Verdini, who now requires armchairs, and with Alfano, who now speaks of a victory. The Government has humiliated Parliament, placing its trust in a measure concerning a fundamental right, and has humiliated the Italians, demeaning a measure that was already at its lowest and the most moderate in the European panorama, with the consequence that Italy is now last on this front with Greece. There's an insult to this law. Yes, stepchild adoption has been removed but there is a more serious aspect to consider. I believe that Article 44 of Law No 183 of 1984 provides for this possibility. But there is an insult inherent in the other articles where it is said that there is no obligation of fidelity. This means that homosexuals are being evaluated for different ethics. I will not be here to consider whether it is right and ethically important that there be this bond, but I would like to stress the fact that not recognizing this ban, present in marriage, as a serious, absolutely serious discrimination for civil unions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am ashamed, today, of being in this Parliament that puts trust in a bill of parliamentary initiative and I am ashamed because we have not been able to bring home a law that gives dignity to citizens, because the person and dignity of the person come first of all. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u23	Mr President, we are at the top of the history of this draft law, which was rather debated and fought during its parliamentary process. Well, this story ends once again in one of the worst ways both in the substance of this maxi amendment, which represents a further deterioration of a bill that I defined even before compromise to the bottom, but also, unfortunately, in the method. In fact, for a number of political conditions on which I shall now dwell, we have reached yet another application of the question of trust and a political negotiation which is all played out within the majority on which, once again, Parliament cannot express itself. However, Mr President, I think it is worth retracing the stages that have led us, once again, to this result. In my opinion, there are important differences that have occurred and that distinguish this bill from many others on which the question of trust has been raised, on which, I remember, we have always opposed a question of method and merit. This time I can't help but remind you that there has been a period, even long enough - about three weeks - in which this House was actually sovereign because the debate was entirely in the hands of us senators. I recall that the Government, after clarifying its position on the amendments, had returned entirely to the House and therefore the matter was entirely in our hands. There was therefore a period (i.e. the weeks between January and February) in which there were rather definite positions. Not only have we senators of L'Altra Europa with SEL's colleagues always had a very clear position in favour of the bill but there was also, for example, the position of the 5 Star Movement which was quite clear. The members of that Movement always said, at that time, that they would vote on the Cirinna bill without amendments. There were even no Catholic fronds within them and therefore they would vote compactly. On the other hand, the centre-right was also rather compact and, in a very coherent way, has always expressed itself in negative terms on this bill, putting in place all the amending and obstructive practices to bring home the result that from their point of view - although I do not share it - was legitimate and consisted in trying to demolish, as far as possible, this bill. But then, at some point, there was a break, because while the position of a part of Parliament has always been quite consistent, there has been a first turnaround, the one relating to freedom of conscience in the 5 Star Movement Group, which has vanquished the cards on the table for the first time. Now, it is true that on paper the numbers were there, but it is also true - and here I reply to Senator Nugnes - that the parliamentary path of this bill was expected to be rather difficult and bumpy both because of the large number of amendments proposed, and because some of them were kangaroos, and because of the fact that secret votes had been announced. Therefore, the risk of demolishing the Cirinna law was actually concrete and real. That is why such an important change, which took place on 6 February by that political group, essentially created a rather high tension, which saw all political commentators rightly consider the adoption of the Cirinna bill, just as it had been presented, rather difficult and bumpy. This immediately led us to the story of the so-called kangaroo, which opens at this point a very important and all political reflection. Once again, one wonders whether procedural issues or questions of merit come first; whether the dignity of the person comes first - as Senator Nugnes said, inter alia, contradicting - or whether procedural matters come first. The choice of that parliamentary group at that point was decisive and fundamental to approve the bill, as proposed by Senator Cirinna; the approval of the measure needed the vote of the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement. Well, it was decided to put the procedural question before the dignity of people. Let us remember that at that moment we would have had the opportunity to introduce civil rights for homosexuals in this country, for which among other things we have always fought, both within the 5 Star Movement and outside; instead we preferred to assert a procedural issue precisely on the skin of the LGBT citizens. At a time when the umpteenth turn of events, naturally falling from the top, changed its mind about the proposal to vote on the amendment [[Comments of Senator Bottici]] From a political point of view, it has abdicated its role as bearers of citizens' demands, with which we have always worked, among other things, and has put the procedural issue in the foreground, abdicating to coherence. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] So, if we are faced with a situation in which the Renzi Government, with the usual methods that we know well, has put the question of trust and made an agreement with the center-right, which has been re-evaluated precisely by your position, one of the most important political faults has it precisely the 5 Star Movement, which with this umpteenth turn has done nothing but put the law back into play again, forcing in fact our beloved President of the Council to use its unscrupulous methods to kill once again the parliamentary debate, which from that point of view had somehow become self-suffering, and to achieve a result that, as we have seen from the demonstrations of the streets that were there yesterday, once again mortifies the dignity of the LGBT citizens. Political reflection is therefore required. To pursue the demands of the citizens, for whom we have been sent to Parliament and who do not care if civil rights are approved with or without the kangaroo, must always come before any procedural issue, otherwise it is only a betrayal of the expectations of our voters. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Lucherini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u24	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u25	Mr President, I regret today, more than anything else, that Parliament is unable to express its views on the substance of the text of the law in question, because it has prevailed over the duty to give a response to the citizens and the duty to organise the law of our State in a way that is more consistent with the values of our Constitutional Charter. What has been chosen, unfortunately, has been chosen because of the inadequacy that has occurred in this House and because of the exploitation of an internal opposition to the majority of the government. They have therefore prevailed, they have prevailed for political controversy and the merit of this measure has been sacrificed once again together with the role of Parliament, which comes out defeated. This House, which, as we all know, is undergoing a major transformation in its functions and role due to the forthcoming constitutional reform, today had the opportunity to carry out an important political act of justice, but it does not do so. Instead, another act will be made: it will express the confidence, yet another confidence, to the government in office. I say this because, in the very bad action that a piece of the right exercised in the debate around this measure and that concerns a conscious desire to undermine citizens' rights, that piece of the right achieves two objectives. The first is the deletion of Article 5, which could instead be entrusted to the decision, even taking into account the problems of conscience of each of us, of Parliament as an expression of the sovereign will of the people. The other is the principle of fidelity, as set out in the article on civil union between persons of the same sex. This principle of fidelity is so important for the right, because it is instrumentally thought that it could affect the procedures of recognition of adoption rights and because the ancient, heavy right, expression of an outdated culture, wants to maintain in the affective relationship between people this hood of property: fidelity as the exercise of an exclusive property. He has the idea that they have exactly what are expressions of a culture in which women are subject [[Applause from Senator Mangili]] We think that this will expresses a principle that unfortunately, spread also in the current culture of this country, represents one of the concauses of feminicide. It is something to be expunged not from a measure like this, but from the culture that belongs to us and that concerns every kind of relationship. I say to the comrades of the Democratic Party that if I had been directly involved in this debate, I would not have allowed this. [[Applause from Senator De Petris]] I would have rejected this request. It is instrumental, it is an expression of a cultural shame that we must abandon. I say this because, in the aftermath of the decision on this measure, we should all work to improve it and we should start working on the issue of adoptions, because once again children - which is also a shame - are not at the heart of the debate we are discussing when it comes to adoptions. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u26	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u27	Mr President, I belong to the Forza Italia Group out of conviction and because that is what the people who elected me decided. The Party of Forza Italia had declared itself opposed to the bill Cirinna, but leaving freedom of conscience - as is logical for a democratic party - on a subject that concerns the rights of people. In the general discussion, two weeks ago, I declared my favour of the draft law on civil unions, because it seemed right to me to do so. However, I had hoped that there would be two changes: the first to point out that it was not a marriage, not because there should be discrimination, but in order to avoid the danger of the law itself being unconstitutional. The second amendment I wanted was to delete adoptions, not because homosexuals could not adopt, but in order to be able to work on an organic measure on adoptions, since now singles cannot adopt or have enormous difficulties in doing so. Adopting in our country is sometimes more difficult than climbing a mountain of five thousand meters. The changes of the government basically accept the suggestions I had given, even if - I must say the truth - I aesthetically like little that the obligation to fidelity for civil unions is removed, almost as if marriages had something ethical and instead that kind of union was deprived of it. I don't get it. Unfortunately, the government has decided to raise the question of trust. Yesterday, President Grasso, responding to Senator Calderoli, the current President of the Assembly, said that the priority aspect (since the maxi amendment was still admissible) is that the Government, at any time, can ascertain whether the relationship between the Government and Parliament exists. This is the prevailing aspect of the vote that we are expressing today and that is what President Grasso told you yesterday, Senator Calderoli, when he sat in another bench. For this reason, although I agree that there should be civil unions, I will vote against this measure. No comment, because it is not worth it: on the one hand I am glad that civil unions can finally be open to homosexuals, on the other hand I am sorry that this positive action takes place in a climate of tearing and tension. I repeat: I will firmly express my no to trust, because in me prevails the conviction that this Government does not deserve trust. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u28	Mr President, I believe that this majority is getting exactly the law that it wanted from the beginning and, after all, I believe the Italian people, in its average. But no wonder, because we have the Vatican at home. When you have a religion in your home, you are hardly able to move independently. All religions, in fact, whatever they say, are neither democratic nor libertarian. They are religions, they provide a unique thought, with manual, military service style: just like in military service, you have to do certain things. In the end, then, this is. But some issues need to be clarified. The first is that, however, if one believes that he has an advanced idea of what civil protection can be for social education, he must also have the courage to present a bill like this and not what was originally called the Cirinna bill. Let's give an example. The first example is that in Italy one never had the courage to question the fact that marriage must be a binary thing, to two; indeed, this thing is continually sold as a natural family. But what natural? Nature does not foresee this; nature has always foreseen something else. Binary marriage is a social construction, given by a certain type of religion. If one really wanted to do something advanced - such as Buddhists - he had to foresee something multiple. Why can't they marry more people by making multiple agreements? This is a level of social protection. If it really is said that love must be free, then even four or five or six people must be able to marry, with the obvious economies of scale that would be obtained in terms of the protection of minors. In fact, if a child has more parents, he is no longer hostage to any disputes between two. The other fundamental observation is that, if marriage works so well, then why did you even need to get divorced faster and faster? If marriage were a natural thing, there would be no need for an unnatural thing like divorce. Already in this we understand that this family would have nothing natural. In the case of persons of the same sex who wanted to contract this kind of bond, two or more, the same thing should have been foreseen for social formations in which the sexes were variously mixed, therefore the possibility of adopting. You, also in the original bill, have foreseen that people of the same sex have more limitations: their level of social protection is lower. If one thinks of making an advanced provision, it brings everyone to the highest level of protection possible: it gives marriage to everyone. You have made a constitutional reform that changes 50 articles: why not make 51 and change also Article 29? Wedding for everyone. But no; so there was already the intention to keep certain social formations lower. This is the underlying hypocrisy that has led to all this. Do not tell us that you are the champions of rights, as you call them (which rights are not, because they are protection), because it is false. Then you have completely left out another social category that is made by people who do not want to connect with anyone: individuals. Why shouldn't a single be able to adopt? The highest level of protection you can get is that: you can't marry yourself, but at least a child could adopt it. No, of course, you didn't see that coming either. Therefore, what you originally expected was absolutely a farce and you were even able to do worse. This is the demonstration that there is only great conservatism dressed in perbenism. What I have already had the opportunity to say - not in this context, but in others - was this: if you really wanted to educate the Italian citizen towards something more advanced, you had to proceed with steps, because unfortunately a nation on certain topics is ready to receive a law consistent with the education that has been carried out. If Italians are a reactionary and conservative people, in the end you are in this condition and therefore you are willing to accept only certain things and not others. The position I have expressed now is perhaps shared by one person in 10,000 in Italy. However, these are positions that must be taken into account. In the absence of this, you had to predict from the outset that this measure, as it was, the government itself would not want it. And so you wanted to insert the wedge in article 5, because that way you would have the alibi. It's always the usual game: two steps forward and one step back. I don't know how far the Italians will have fallen for it. With this excuse you have given the government a further pretext to enter by breaking the leg and making a further lowering of everything, with good peace of all. Moreover, if on this the right and the left have found themselves united, a doubt to someone should come: or it is the turn to the right of the PD, which in reality has always gone to the right (it has simply realized that even there is written closed road and, therefore, continues to go to the right [[Applause from Senator Mangili]] ) or there is a left turn of the right, which is actually not there. These are the questions that should be considered, but first of all it is an educational path, and that is why I am telling you. If you really want Italians to have a slightly higher concept of social protection, you have to start removing the strong hand of the religions that led you to this and that will inevitably continue to bring you to this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u29	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u30	Mr President, we have now reached the end of this measure in this area of Parliament. We have finally come to vote on the text of the Cirinna bill, albeit with a single vote and with some changes in the text, changes that certainly give thought. Before moving on to a commentary on the text, I would like to make a few comments on its parliamentary procedure. The issue of the recognition of the rights of homosexual couples has come to the Commission justice since the beginning of the legislature. The Commission has examined texts, audited experts, assessed and weighed different options until it has decided to proceed with a basic text prepared by the rapporteur, Mrs Cirinna. With these few words I have summarized about a couple of years of work in the Commission. The basic text was then presented with amendments. As I recall, more than 3,000 have been presented, of which less than half have been declared admissible by the President. So there was an attempt to vote on the approximately 1,500 remaining amendments, but after so many sessions, some even evenings, in which the obstruction of those who opposed was strong, hard and even effective, very few steps have been taken. Each amendment was accompanied, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, by the comment of two, three and even four senators, each for ten minutes, and was able to devote from twenty to forty minutes to each individual amendment. This was the only way to vote on a few of the amendments at the sitting, and that, of course, was a road which could not be crossed. I make one point: I speak of it as a direct witness, as I was a member of the Justice Commission from April to October 2015, i.e. at the final stage of the examination of civil unions in the Justice Commission. We have therefore moved on to the draft law n° 2081, which, in essence, proposes the basic text of the Commission, which has long been discussed and examined, which has been brought directly to the attention of the House. The obstructive commitment - I am referring to the more than 5,000 amendments by the League, and not only that - has indeed been repeated in this House, which has been committed to this measure since 28 January. Today it is 25 February: almost a month has passed and only the constitutional prejudices and the proposal not to pass through the articles have been put to the vote. In almost four weeks, only two votes were taken: very little. We have arrived, therefore, at the epilogue of this week that, in some ways, can be summarized in the application of the third principle of dynamics, that is to say to each action corresponds an equal and opposite reaction. The reaction of the question of trust shall be paid to the obstructionist action. Apart from the daring analogies, the question of trust by the Government has been put on the Cirinna text, albeit modified - and then we will see how - in order to close an iter that foretold itself too long and, therefore, incompatible with the work of the Senate; a necessary closure of the parliamentary iter that will allow the majority of the senators to vote and finally - I hope - approve the rights contained in this provision and thus not give in to a minority that, although small, was in fact forbidding the majority to express themselves. On this, that is, on the prerogatives, on the right-duty of oppositions to express themselves with the greatest possible protection and on the equally important right of the majority to be able to decide and vote, I think our democracy should reflect. Returning to the content of the measure, I comment only on the most important change introduced by the maxi amendment, i.e. to have expounded the adoption of the child. I understand that such a decision has proved necessary in order to be able to proceed with the approval of the text by the majority - of which I am also a member - but I consider this choice to be an error, because it denies the rights of children who, on the other hand, should be protected more than all with certain rights. We will still leave the definition of each individual case to the jurisprudential path, without having well defined and guaranteed, with a clear and simple adoption, the emotional continuity of both parents; an emotional continuity that is sacrosanct to guarantee as much as possible to minors. I repeat that this is a mistake, but I am comforted to know that, when this measure is finally approved, there will no longer be so many hateful discriminations for same-sex couples. It will no longer happen to my friend Caesar, who was able to trust only in the understanding and good heart of the doctors and nurses in order to be close to his Loris, his companion living together for thirty-nine years, in the three weeks of rapid illness that, last year, led him to death; an understanding dotted, however, continuously with questions like: "Sorry, but who is she?" or that led him to suffer the impositions of those who say: "Sorry, but only relatives can remain, who added humiliation and suffering to those who were already in the worry about the health of their companion. Never again, this must never happen again. For many of our fellow countrymen, this law will simply eliminate discrimination, guarantee rights and impose obligations. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and the Senators, Mr Buemi and Mr Gatti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u32	Mr President, the empty House bears witness to the fact that the pulp and the heart of the matter have now been eviscerated and therefore, of course, that the games are played. This is, of course, a pity, because much has been said about tactics, but too little of what this measure has meant so far. There has been no mention of values and of what is behind you. Allow me, Mr President, to list in my speech the protagonists who emerged in the course of the parliamentary debate, starting with Senator Bocchino, who just reminded us that for a few days, for a few weeks, this House has become the protagonist. Mr President, Senator Bocchino made a reference, but some of the reasoning is missing. The House has come back as a protagonist, but as a useful fool in a path that has already been outlined. On the contrary, the fact that the Government has chosen to let go of the bill in the swamp has served to demonstrate once more the inability of Parliament to make synthesis and to arrive at solutions, which in theory should go in the interests of the citizens, thus revealing that it is the action of the Government - or Renzi, who intervenes by cutting the Gordian knot with the sword - to resolve the situation. That's not it! In fact, we have noticed that the Government, in this circumstance, has done nothing but put in place an exquisitely tactical maneuver, with a distraction purpose compared to the problems of the country. In these weeks the debates and talks shows, so much condemned but so frequented by each of us (and each of us therefore has the responsibility, together with the press), have dealt with the debate on civil unions and what is the stepchild adoption, with the Accademia della Crusca that had to intervene to clarify that it is the adoption of the stepson, while I add that it would be more correct to say that it is the adoption of the son of N.N. This is, in fact, the stepchild. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). What does it say? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Evidently, there are still those who can't even translate from English. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Cheater! TOSATO (LN-Aut). Excuse me, Mr President, you said cheat! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buemi, what did you say? Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). The children are the ones who raise them, not the ones who make them. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Who buys them? [[Comments of Senators Martelli and Nugnes.]] They're sales! Buy! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, if he does not insult and transcend, is free to say what he wants. Thank you, but it is not necessary, Mr President. I'd like to remind someone that, in order to know how an egg is made, you don't have to be a chicken. So, you remember Senator Buemi before you said that. Having said that, it is true that you are confusing the right with the desire, because one account is the civil rights of a couple of people, one account is the desire to have a child, which is not a right. The desire to have a child is not a right. But the right of a child to have a parent parent and a parent parent is natural, because each of us was born of a father and a mother. Great, then, is the deception that is hidden behind the story of the adoption of the stepson - someone is happier if you use the formula - in the sense that you hide what has already happened and that is already reality: women rented, artificially inseminated with an egg that is not theirs, with a seed that comes from an outside third, who give birth to a child that is then taken away from them and taken into adoption - this is the desire that lies behind and at the bottom - by a third couple not made by a man and a woman. This isn't a family, but it's something else. We must talk about values. Everyone has the right to live his own life as he wishes, but one cannot deny a child to be born of a father and a mother. It is simple, natural, and I repeat natural. Who are the protagonists of this scene? In spite of this, it was the protagonist, also in this circumstance, President Grasso who, after having heard referee Moreno, unfortunately failed to take away the image of person who does not defend the Institution, but who bends according to the circumstance and, a little with opportunism, takes a position after the drawings are now outlined. It's a bit of an image, since we're talking about weddings, about Don Abbondio: he can't take a position, but he tries to boat from one side to the other. The only final result is a further deterioration in the credibility of the institution that it should defend. We do not know and will never really know whether those so-called kangaroo amendments would be inadmissible or not, because we have only read it in the newspapers: there has been no formal measure by the President who has declared it inadmissible here in this House. Unfortunately, we will never know this and it is a serious lack on the part of the President, in respect not of us but of the institution, because it should respect, also of the future, because the precedents then become important. And if the kangaroo went well when it came to approving the electoral law, and it is no longer good when it comes to de facto couples, there is a basic inconsistency. President Grasso would have done well to clear the field permanently compared to the kangaroo. And again this curious animal returns, which is another protagonist of the story. There would be no ostriches on the list, the ones that put their heads under the sand. And we've seen so many, and there will be so many on this occasion too, who will vote for trust this afternoon, hiding their heads in the sand. This will be the law of ostriches, of those who say they disagree, but they are very happy. Thank you, Minister Alfano, for bending the Renzi Government to something that has not changed in the senses and in the facts what was the origin. In fact, there will be a law that leaves open the legitimacy of relations between fathers and children, or rather between parents and children - we do not understand what will be - born outside the family, in an illegitimate way. And it would have been right on the part of Parliament, or rather of the Government, taking note of the debate, to act with a decree-law immediately, defining that the womb for rent is a universal crime. Adoption is one thing and conception is another, and that is the fundamental difference. Adoption and conception are two completely different concepts. We are talking about values, not rights, in these cases. As we said, animals such as kangaroos and ostriches (the ostriches of Minister Alfano) emerge. What's the price paid these nights? The price has already been paid before. Here they were even more skillful and swifter than Judas, who, after betraying, had thirty denarii given and then hanged himself. They hung themselves from the Renzi tree even earlier: when they chose and decided to stay in the government in exchange for a few extra points as Undersecretary, as President or Vice President of the Commission, as Minister. And this is coherence, which in politics counts or should count among the founding values. There is another present-absent protagonist: the Catholics engaged in politics, the Catholics, those who are in the NCD party of Alfano or a little 'everywhere. Where is consistency? If you are consistent, take the most hidden meaning of what has come to you as an indication from the Catholic Church, apply it and vote against trust in the Government. One cannot say that one is against a part of the measure and then, however, one votes for confidence in the government. Congruence goes to be blessed: if the plant is poisoned, the fruit that is born on the right branch is no better than that which is born on the left branch. Everything's poisoned. There's a double morale here. It is all relative and it is this relativism that is driving our society to a halt today. It is because of relativism that citizens no longer recognize themselves as sacrificing their rights and they equate the last ones with the first ones, those who stand in line with those who jump in line. Natural rights are equated with desires, which are something else. Another protagonist we can't miss is President Renzi, who is very skilled in forming government alliances with Verdini or thinking of using the 5 Star Movement or having President Zanda tell us that there is obstruction by the League in the Chamber and, therefore, we must cut the debate clearly, in order to go quickly to approve a law that the country has been waiting for so long. The obstruction of the League, however, is then exposed by ourselves with the withdrawal of 4,500 amendments and leaving only those of merit, in order to adopt in Parliament a law that deals with rights and duties and also talks about the contents that we are listing. The bluff is then exposed: the PD does not have a position; there are tactics; this measure is used - as I said initially - to divert the attention of the public from the real problems of the country. Eventually we will have a few more legitimate de facto couples, but we will certainly not have de facto couples with a job or income. There are paradoxical themes, which I do not call ridiculous because the word is reductive. I am referring to the question of reversibility. On the other hand, it is now clear and clear that the State will take away the reversibility of those who already have the right, those who have paid the contributions, those who are widowed or widowed of a spouse who has worked for a lifetime and has paid contributions for a pension that they can no longer receive. Here, however, it is said by the Budget Commission, in a garibal and superficial way, that there is coverage. It will have a very simple effect: this will be the excuse to say that, since there is no money to pay survivors' pensions at all, there will be no survivor's pensions for anyone. It is a simple way to equate rights: nothing is given to anyone anymore. President, these are deceptions that we have not missed. We have held a consistent position. We would have expected a clear position from the Government and the fact that we did not reveal our relationship with the Constitutional Court and - as we asked this morning - makes the end of the debate even more murky. As Mrs Stefani will point out in her speech, stepchild adoption has remained legal. Nothing has changed in here: only the shape has changed. From Azzeccagarbugli they have kept in the measure the same initial elements, remodelling them, so that by legal means - as always happens in this country - the Parliament and the legislator will be overcome by the practice. At this point, in the next legislature we will only have to take note of what has happened in the country and legalize what by nature cannot be. Mr President, we are no longer talking about values - as I said - but tactics. There are protagonists who would have done better to shut up. Without disrespecting anyone, Senator Lo Giudice could spare himself interviews on television. He would have done himself and others a favor. It has not rendered the country a favor in giving the image of legislator that stands before the public saying that it lives an illegitimately obtained situation and that with this measure it expects to be healed. This is the extreme synthesis of reasoning and it is not good, especially when we talk - I repeat - about children. It doesn't work this part which is different from the rights of de facto couples. Adoption is one thing, conception is another. As far as the presence of unlikely subjects is concerned, here too, if the rapporteur had been of another rank, it is likely that much better could have been done in this case too. Already the impuntamenti do not serve anyone, but here too much has been seen in function of the square, and in function of a square that, for one part, has been abundantly supported by the media, starting from those of the public service. I think of the so-called rainbow square, which has found hospitality in every way and on every occasion, including the Sanremo Festival. Instead, the big initiative organized by families a few weeks ago slipped away in the press. In fact, a press conference held here in the Senate did not even come back into the news reported by the news and on state televisions, if not in a marginal way in the various and eventual. Mr President, this is not happening. The same choice to use the maxi amendment on this measure gives me the idea not of someone who, in a very strong way, cuts off the gordian knot that cannot dissolve alone, but of someone who, in the end, uses tactics to bend to his own need for power and government the legitimate parliamentary debate. This will not affect the outside and the country, but we remember that it is an exercise of non-secondary democracy. Today many may be led to think that it is better to have the strong man in command who decides, but let's remember the examples given in this country, the examples in the history of those who take and decide or, even, decide who should be happy or how to be happy: they do not produce democracy, but degenerations of democracy. I tell my fellow Senators of the Democratic Party that the opposition is necessary for democracy. And as we have tabled those amendments that we would have liked to see debated here, you will be prevented tomorrow - as you have already been prevented - from expressing a different opinion, and you will be bowed down. Now, as well as the kangaroo, you have to get used to thinking that the government is interested in parliamentarians who follow a policy: that of the ostrich, of those who put their heads under the sand and hide pretending that the external reality does not exist. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u33	I greet the representatives of students and professors of the Secondary Institute of First Degree (Piero Gobetti) of Borgomanero, in the province of Novara, and a representation of students and teachers of the Bishops' College (Pio X) of Treviso, who today attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u34	Mr President, I believe that this final part of our debate, if anything, has been useful in order to enter into the substance of what has been written. The first fact we have to take note of is that we are no longer talking about the Cirinna law. The Cirinna law no longer exists, but there is an initiative of the Government, and this, on the part of wanting to enter into the substance of the norm that is proposed without ideological prejudices, deserves some attention. Having become the law an initiative of the government and therefore becoming a law Renzi-Alfano, it should be understood whether the remedies attempted are good or are a patch worse than the hole. In the light of what was written by the Government in the maxi amendment, my conviction is that before we had an unconstitutional text, while today we have an unconstitutional and even irrational text. 10:52 a.m. (MAURO Mario follows). We have an unconstitutional text because, having eliminated the obligations of fidelity provided for in the original bill, the rule turns out to be further discriminatory against heterosexual couples in fact. If first heterosexual couples were not in fact granted rights, also because there were no obligations of fidelity to regulate the relationship, today we have homosexual couples who are not required to be faithful, but who are granted rights. This is objectively discriminating against heterosexual couples and represents a not insignificant detail. In fact, when you go to draw the scenario of those who - forgive me the pun - have the right to rights, to heterosexual couples in fact the rights are denied because their relationship is marked by the absence of obligations of fidelity, while to a homosexual couple, even if not obliged to comply with the obligation of fidelity, the rights are granted, thus creating an obvious contradiction. Moreover, since the maxi amendment has maintained the granting of divorce and the consequent right to maintenance to homosexual couples, someone has to explain to me on what basis they get divorced and allow themselves to be maintained, since there are no obligations of fidelity. Therefore, the norm, besides being manifestly unconstitutional, is also fundamentally irrational. It is as if the statesmen of government - Minister Alfano and the President of the Renzi Council - who have worked at this stage, have fallen in love with the title of the norm, without entering into the merit of the chapters that must define it, ending up ordering one that, due to contradictions of a rational and constitutional nature, is in itself ineffective. I would also like to make a further comment on the basis of the statements made by members of the majority. President Finocchiaro said that we could proceed with the vote of confidence, because the Government has the right to affix confidence when it considers essential the realization of pieces of its program. In this sense, the defenses of Minister Alfano must be taken, who has not succumbed firmly at the last moment: if this is a piece of the government program, Minister Alfano has always been aware of it and has succumbed regardless, sharing a piece of government program that contradicts in re ipsa the social name of the party that he has set up. That is to say, it is a political contradiction. There is another contradiction in the budget. This morning President Tonini reminded us that there is the boiling of the General Accounting of the State on the financial capacity of the measure. It is necessary to be careful, because boiling is a consequence of the government's orientation, revealed in recent days, of wanting to put hand to survivors' pensions, contracting the rights of those who already enjoy them to make room for new rights. Today the Government denies such a position, but this is the orientation that had been communicated to the officials of the General Accounting of the State, who said in an incontrovertible way that you can certainly cover the norm because you know where to go to get the money. This problem remains on the table, as the contradiction has not been resolved by the Government and weighs like a sword of Damocles on those who currently enjoy the right to a survivor's pension. Then there is a further element to consider in order to understand whether we are considering the measure on the merits and not only on the basis of ideological prejudice, dividing abstractly between conservatives and progressives, without understanding that, when making a bad law, it does not serve any of the rights actually payable by Italian citizens. Too lightly we consider the fact that, through the civil union procedure, you will have the right to citizenship and the survivor's pension. And we do that by thinking of Italy as if it were Norway, but it's not like that. In practice, the fragility of the norm will expose to a series of violations that will make the norm itself, in its appearance manifest to Italian citizenship, as a privilege granted to some rather than a right to be demanded. And this will be the result of new contradictions. All of this is because we did not want to leave room for Parliament to do its job, because it is important to do so, so that it can enter into the substance, so that it can give a perspective of healthy sharing and civil coexistence to the problems and contradictions of our time. They wanted, that is, to impose an agenda, a rhythm and particular elements that are in themselves a factor of contradiction for our society. I believe that those who sow wind gather storm and, therefore, those who have produced themselves in spreading with full hands weeds in our political and social context, will only feed the elements of a social confrontation that to our country can only bring evil. [[Applause from the Senator Council]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u36	Mr President, in the last few hours and days we have been witnessing something absolutely never seen before. Of course, no precedents are created in this Senate anymore, because it itself will no longer exist in a few months' time and, therefore, it is fun to massacre the Institution, the Regulations and even the practices of correctness. My request this morning to the Government if it did not consider it correct to explain the differences between its own text and that which has been known to this House and on which it was to be discussed, the absolute silence was opposed: it does not have the courage, but perhaps not even the ability, because that text is so badly written that it would also be difficult to highlight some concrete and substantial aspects of it. This legislature, dear colleagues of the majority (it is useless to turn to a government that boasts of two years of demolition of the country), unfortunately you will write it to the history of the Republic not as a reformist, but as a demolition legislature. You're tearing down the institutions and dividing the country. In the economy you have demolished the banking system and are giving additional pickets. From a territorial point of view, you have divided the country and you are demolishing the Mezzogiorno, where you continue to take away resources without seeing any recovery and you are not pursuing any truly innovative development policy. You are now destroying our society, because the most disturbing part of this bill is not so much that of the so-called civil unions and its regulation, thus releasing it - as Senator Mario Mauro said - from every obligation of those who participate in it. The most disturbing part is relative to the contractuality of the cohabitations. It is no wonder that the materialist matrix of the concept that the left-wings of the regulation of social relations emerge more and more from every step taken. In fact, we have reached the point where we go to the notary. In fact, I am pleased with the New Right Center, because the only result of substantial change it has achieved is that you can also go to a lawyer. It is clear that in that group there is the lobby of lawyers, which intervenes absolutely every time there is to take some position of advantage from the professional point of view. This is the only real substantial variant. The tragic truth of the contractual regulation of living together in fact is that everyone will surely enter this institution by now. You say you want to defend marriage, but marriage no longer exists: defend nothing because, when this law is final, no one will enter the marriage institution, unless he has only an aesthetic interest in the feast often linked to this event, because he can have all the advantages without having any obligation and having a substantial freedom that is not even given in a lease. The unilateral withdrawal from the contract of cohabitation in fact, as suggested by this legislation, will allow anyone to walk away from it even without notice. At least in the leases there is an obligation to give notice and to maintain the commitment. Compared with what is expected here, the famous and so opposed over time - now I believe no longer - repudiation of the Muslim religion becomes a difficult obstacle to face. Much more easily, you go to a notary or even a lawyer - as certainly the New Right Center has asked to do - to make a contract and then, from today to tomorrow, you can withdraw from it quietly and everything blows up. This is the company you're giving us. If we add to this the annexes and links of all the demolition reforms that you are carrying out in relation to citizenship, family reunification and the brevity of the same dissolution of marriage bonds, we, in fifteen years at the latest - mine is an optimistic forecast - will have an Italian society composed no longer of citizens of Italian origin. It is clear, in fact, that in this country laws also have their possible instrumental use, and perhaps in ours, unfortunately, more than in others. The instrumental use of the combined disposition of the norms on the contractualization of the coexistence, on the possibility of the civil unions, on the new ius soli that you prepare to vote and on everything that disrupts the social structure of our country will lead us to these consequences and will bring in more the general chaos in the social relations. Other than adoptions, which can still be accessed, because the reference to the existing law is absolutely unequivocal. You have given yourself the right - I do not know how - to preserve some of the values of our society, which you have betrayed once again, as you have done on other occasions. With the elimination of the famous article 5 - if we read well between the paragraphs, in fact it has not been completely eliminated - the façade of the norm that you wander around will reveal once again, to the reckoning, to the rendering of the practicability and the possibility to operate certain practices, all its hypocrisy. This is what you are getting: a hypocritical law. It would have been much more correct to say, with just one article, that marriage is also accessible to homosexual couples. In this way, at least the obligations and duties that already lie with the spouses in the traditional conception of marriage would have been assumed. I think that also that influential part, that beyond the banks of the river tries to affect Italian politics, once again has patched from the point of view of the defense of its ancient and certainly important values. In fact, there can be no condolences on this kind of disruption of society. We will realize this and you will soon realize it, when you will find yourself in front of a different country not for the better, but certainly for the worse, from the point of view of social relations, their estate and from the point of view of the holding of nationality, for what still applies and for who still believes in it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u37	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u38	Mr President, I shall make a few points, unfortunately quite empty in this House, and that is not new. I would like to start with the fact that, while I understand the propaganda and the need to use some big words, I find a little out of place - if I may say so - the triumphalism of which I have read in the last hours of the President of the Council and of the government's staff and of the PD in relation to the epilogue of this affair. We have been for a lot of years (thirty years) among the far more backward countries on a topic like this. And we also have a further paradox, all Italian: when this law is done, as will happen here at a few hours, there will be no joy and happiness and we will not claim a result all those who have been fighting for this for decades (the militants, the associations, those who have been before this Senate for many weeks). All this, unfortunately, will happen in disappointment, in discouragement, in bitterness and, if I were the President of the Council, I would ask myself why all this happens. In three years I have never mentioned what I am going to say, not least because I don't like propaganda. For once, however, I want to say that I am really proud of military in the only Group and in the only party in the country that had no ambiguity on this matter, had no hesitation, and said - as it shows what happened - with clarity and clarity that the approval of this law was much more important than any political polemic, any positioning and that it would have been right and wise if such an attitude had been of everyone. Of course, it is a slight consolation, because bitterness remains for the epilogue. Of course, it would have been nice if the general interest had been put before the particular one. We have said clearly from the first moment that we would have been willing to do everything to approve this measure and I must say that I do not even convince myself of the many comments, which I read in the last hours and which are wasted on the Net, of the opposite typhoseries that make the race to see who is more responsible, who has more faults in the story. One fan said that the 5 Star Movement was wrong not to vote on the kangaroo; the other replied that it was wrong for the Democratic Party not to follow the parliamentary path, almost to seek a pretext, to put trust at the first hiccup and at the first moment of difficulty. Forgive me for saying this to you by a small party that counts much less than you - then I will try to explain why I do so - but, to paraphrase the President of the Council, be quiet: it is the same fault of both of you and I will try to tell you why. I think you really missed a historic opportunity, because there were all the conditions in this Parliament, not simply to have a law on civil unions, but to do it to the end; a law that was not halved, that could finally look to the general interest and that - for example - could put the children (of which we discussed in this House) once again at the center of careful and adequate legislation, which I believe would have served a great deal. On the contrary, tacticism, ambiguity prevailed; perhaps fear prevailed in reading some polls, the climate determined in this country. You know - and I say this to the two main sides - that you have given up on a cultural battle to the end. This is the most serious point - in my opinion - of the affair and is the reason for our bitterness. To approve the measure as it is is a setback to the possibility that there could be in this House, compared to the type of majority that could be established in this House. The trust that has been placed also has a very particular characteristic: it is really at the same time a force and a failure. Usually trust is either one thing or the other; instead in this case it is a forcing. And one must explain to me - I have not quite understood it yet - how it is done in the space of so few hours to pass from freedom of conscience to trust, that they are two concepts so different from each other that they even become opposites. At the same time, however, it is also a failure, because the text that will emerge from the confidence that will be voted on tonight is clearly more backward than the draft law as it came out of the Commission and as we had begun to discuss it. I would, however, like to say what I am thinking of the epilogue that has taken place in this House all these days and in the last few hours. Those difficult days that we have experienced, the no of the 5 Star Movement to the kangaroo and, then, the choice of the Democratic Party to resort to trust are, in fact, the last act of the element of responsibility that I context. I think the real mistake in this affair was not to raise a dam, a barrier. In all these months we have suffered a fire put on the field, in particular, by the forces of the right in various manifestations. Unfortunately in our country we also have the peculiarity of having the far more backward right-wings in the world on a topic like this, but it touches us. And when, precisely, those political forces built a story that had no connection with reality, confusing different topics between them, you should have raised a wall: you, the main parties of this country, should have had the strength and the critical mass sufficient to resist such an instrumental story. And, unfortunately, you didn't raise this wall. You should have done so - for example - when it began to insert the resounding exploitation that confused adoptions and surrogacy, making a very serious reasoning a single cauldron. You should have raised a wall when the country was being instrumentally led to believe that Law No. 40 was being amended. You should have raised a wall when - for example - it was said, in a false and instrumental way, that gay couples could have access to adoptions and surrogacy anywhere in the world, even in the countries of the South of the world, taking advantage of poverty, when it is known that they can do so only in Canada and the United States, and in any case they are 5 percent of the total. [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u39	Senator De Cristofaro, you should finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u40	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). I'm running out of president. I understand that the truth sometimes burns. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Liar! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you've already had two minutes longer than your group has given you. It's not the truth that burns. He's been on extra time for two minutes. De Cristofaro. Let me finish, President. Well, I believe that before this imaginative and instrumental tale your responsibility was all here, and perhaps you were afraid of losing some vows. We have even heard, precisely because of the difficulty and fear of these elements, of the hypothesis of raising the penalties for those who resort to surrogacy. I mean, you helped create a big mess. The defeat of the last few hours is the epilogue in the House: the gigantic mistake of the 5 Star Movement not to vote the other day together with the rest of the Assembly and the gigantic error of the Government to put trust arise from this fear, from this element. The doubt comes - who knows - that someone hoped that this stuff could happen in the secret of the urn and that, instead of the deletion of article 5, there might be the rejection of article 5, perhaps by secret vote and, indeed, being able to blame the responsibility. But this has not happened, and at least we have to put our faces on it. I think it is a pity, because this Parliament for once had every opportunity to build a law that could really have been a turning point, to the very end, in this country. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u41	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u42	Mr President, we have come to the final act of this measure and we can say that the Democratic Party votes for civil unions with Alfano and Verdini and that Alfano votes for civil unions with the left: I do not say Verdini because it is a normal fact and does not call for any reflection. Mr President, I want to talk about the method. I heard Mrs Cirinna, the signatory to the extinct bill - the bill is now governmental, let's speak clearly - say a few weeks ago: I resign when Article 5 is removed from the measure, the stepchild adoption. I resign! Now article 5 is not there, stepchild adoption is not there and Senator Cirinna exults with Alfano. [[Applause from Senators Cappelletti and Rizzotti]] Alfano, for his part, had said no, absolutely, to this provision. Now, with the agreement made, he states: "Great result" Mr President, I actually sometimes feel a little dismayed. Last week I saw everything and the opposite of everything. I saw a party, the PD, which is always everything and the opposite of everything, which in the press said: We need to vote on the Cirinna bill, and then in the Chamber he did not want to vote. I wondered, how is that possible? If I understood something, when one wants to vote on a measure, when it is decided whether to postpone or not, he says he does not want to postpone, he wants to vote. No, he didn't. He postponed it. Again, once again, I remain dismayed. But who is outside, of course, can't understand the games, also because the press transforms everything. Actually, the goal at the end was just that it had to - it had to! - agree with the trusted Alfano and transform the bill Cirinna into a bill "Alfana." The press: I really, when I think about it, get angry, obviously in my interior. I want to bring an example of bad information. A photo of my colleague Airola was published that was embraced by my colleague Castaldi (Movement 5 Stars each), and the press transformed it with: The hug of Calderoli to Airola. Here is the plot of the 5 Star Movement with the League. Shame on you! [[Applause from Senator Mangili]] It was Castaldi's embrace that stood near his fellow Movement: they were Castaldi and Airola. The 5 Star Movement has tabled zero amendments and those who are in this House know the meaning of it, they know what this action means: it means that the measure was good for us. True, there was someone who wouldn't vote for him in the 5 Star Movement: it's me, but I was alone, and so the votes were there. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rizzotti]] Why, then, did the press, which is well aware of the functioning of Parliament, not highlight the 5 Star Movement when it tabled zero amendments? Why didn't you emphasize this particularity? No, you don't. Tuonava: "Dietrofront del Movimento 5 Stars." But for what? About what? On the kangaroo? But we did not vote. The kangaroo has not been voted on. Moreover, the 5 Star Movement did not want the famous kangaroo and we know very well why. It's not that he didn't want it suddenly: he didn't want it a few years ago, he didn't want it a few months ago and he didn't want it now. It is called consistency, coherence, a strange word in this House. Even the press should probably Remember her. ( [[Applause from the M5S Group. Recalls of the President]] Eventually, the Senate declared the kangaroo unvotable because it was inadmissible, and therefore not the 5 Star Movement, but the Senate of the Republic. Mr President, I would like to remind you that laws are being made in Parliament, because Parliament is the representative of the people, because sovereignty belongs to the people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, during the general debate I said that I did not like the quality of the debate that started in this House, as in the country. Everything had taken on the contours of the clash between typhoseries: one deaf to the other's reasons. I had pointed out that, as a moderate in politics and in character, I hoped for a higher debate, in a true confrontation, and instead we had found ourselves with categorical invitations to respect for the Constitution, on the one hand and on the other, between those who hoisted in a curve the flag of Article 2 and those in the other that of Article 29. Again in that Chamber I reiterated how important I felt the comfort of another article in our Constitution, that of the freedom of mandate of Members of Parliament, which prevented me from accepting the text in the original version. In recent weeks, I and other colleagues in my group, with so many other members of the majority, have waged a battle with an open face, without fear and strong reasons. We did not get on the barricades, we did not lend ourselves to ideological readings, but we have always tried to confront ourselves on the merits of the matter, always trying to remain on the tracks of common sense. And common sense told me and tells me that the adoption rule, as it had been formulated, could turn into the Trojan horse to introduce surrogacy. It is a subject - and I would like to reiterate this - which concerns not only same-sex couples, but also and above all heterosexuals. For this reason, as announced by President Zanda, a reordering measure on the discipline of adoptions, a subject that - as we have seen in recent weeks - has profound and complex ethical and legal implications, disconnected from civil unions. I believe and hope that Parliament will be able to find again the serenity necessary to address a subject of such complexity, which deserves to have as a point of view that of minors, their rights and their protections, and with which we must ask for a great commitment, also of a cultural nature, to counter the practice of surrogacy, extending the punishableness of the crime even when committed abroad. I can only welcome the maxi mum amendment. The government, apart from the reasons that prompted it to intervene, has built a balanced text that recognises the rights of all couples, making our country overcome the delay for which it was condemned at European level. I'm just sorry how you got to all this. It was necessary to seek from the first moment a synthesis within the majority, knowing that the voices that rose from within against the norm on adoptions were not an act of political positioning, but gave voice to the sentiment that gradually became majority in public opinion: the idea, that the rights could no longer be postponed, but that it was dangerous to confuse them with issues that have an enormous ethical importance, that not only concern the couples of the same sex. The important thing, however - as they say in these cases - is the landing place, regardless of the tortuousness of the journey. Finally, let me make a political point. Going to the aid of the 5 Star Movement would have constituted a dangerous precedent and a fracture with moderate political forces, which loyally and responsibly guarantee governability. Having brought the measure back into the majority beehive was a positive fact not only for the resulting text, but also because the entire coalition that supports the Government has been strengthened. This is a very important fact for me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u45	I address the greetings of the Assembly to students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education "Arimondi-Eula" in Savigliano, in the province of Cuneo, who are following our work. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u46	Mr President, the process of this bill - although it is a big word, given the brutal way in which the bill is passed - and its content show some things. The first: the President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, is totally unreliable. One could say that it is not a great novelty: one could ask, for example, to Henry "be serene" Letta, if he needed this episode to know or to the many companies that have been waiting for payment, on the day of St. Matthew, of all the debts of the public administration (since it had been established the day of St. Matthew of 2014 to make such payments). Of St. Matthew's days, however, two have already passed, the third will pass and these companies fire and fail, because the State does not pay, despite the promises of the President of the Council. On this particular point, therefore, we see the Commission's total reliability, given that those who speak in this House on behalf of the Government are certainly not doing so on a personal basis. The Minister of Justice, just a few days ago and not two years ago - with everything that the word given should not have expired, but let alone! - said that on this measure, as it had already done when discussing other draft laws relating to this same subject, the Government would not have entered the Commission into the substance and would at most have given its opinion, in the case of matters involving the management of the Government, such as the agendas, on which an opinion of the Commission must be expressed. Instead, we have a large government amendment, signed by the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Maria Elena Boschi, on which the Government puts its trust and we also have senators who come to explain that it is a good thing, since if the measure had been voted by someone from the opposition they would not have voted for it: while remaining within the government, they will vote for it. We're good! But then what are they doing? They stand at home and let the only President of the Council vote. This is therefore completely unreliable: we have learned from the President's authoritative voice from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Senator Finocchiaro, that this measure is part of the government's programme. It is interesting to know: it is a pity that they have never told us this in this House and that they are now telling us this in the brutal way of trust. We are introducing very dangerous precedents, because today we are talking about civil unions, but tomorrow we can talk about any topic and, of course, what we do today can be done tomorrow, on any topic. This is done on a subject that involves the family, that is the most heartfelt institution, that precedes every republic and every other kind of human order and let alone if it cannot be done on other things. In summary, the precedent is this: the Senate, not once, neither in the Commission nor in the Assembly, was able to express its views on the content of the measure, but it must take it in bulk, with a vote of confidence, which also obliges those who do not support the Government to vote against it, if they are so foolish as to support the content of this rule. Therefore we have a brutal deletion of any intervention on the content, on a very important measure for homosexual couples and for non-homosexual couples and for all families, because here we are sure to change - but, in my opinion, also to seriously distort - the sense of the family. On the other hand, we have a government that does not respect the judgments of the Constitutional Court: I am referring to the judgment on pension arrears, in which the Constitutional Court - not the television broadcast "Forum" - says that it is necessary to return 18 billion euros to pensioners and the Government returns 2.5 billion. Imagine a citizen doing this: he would be taken and put to the ground, because the sentences are respected, in the sense that they apply. The government would have to pay 18 billion euros and pay only 2.5 billion euros. So we have these twists and a violent deletion of the rules. Article 72 of the Constitution says two things that in this case have been completely overwhelmed, namely that every measure is examined in the Commission and in the Assembly and that the measures must be voted on article by article. Neither a vote could be taken here, either in the Commission or in this House, with a total interpretation of the rules. Other than the monstrous constitutional reform that the majority voted on and on which the Italians will, fortunately, have the word (unless you invent some other procedure such as canceling the referendum and making a decree-law or something for which the referendum no longer takes place; it could also be an idea: we are now at the cancellation of every rule)! The Constitution as a whole has been overturned, and only one article that could be stated in two different ways remains in force, one of which is Matteo Renzi is always right. Reminds me of the writings on the stems of a few decades ago. But perhaps the most appropriate statement should not refer to the past regime but to the famous Constitution of the Marquis of the Cricket: "I know you and I... " and I don't complete the sentence because it's very well known. This is the Constitution that applies Mr. Matteo Renzi and those who blamefully support him. I say "guilty" because when democracy is overwhelmed it does not have to do with party loyalty, especially if a party is called "democratic"; it should be called antidemocratic, and that's fine. Consistently, if it is undemocratic, it must vote to destroy the Constitution as it is currently doing; and I am not talking about the constitutional reform that facilitates it, because without constitutional reform we are already destroying the constitutional guarantees, starting with your colleagues in the majority. Here we have, as I said, procedures that are used today for so-called civil unions, but one tomorrow they can be used, for example, to rob pensions. Already there is this hint in the government delegation that allows to condition the pensions of survivors to the fact that one is nothing lieutenant, so all those who have been wronged to work and put something aside, if they die they will see their spouse having to content themselves with living for nothing. Of course the government can be trusted (just ask Henry "be serene" Letta) when he says: No, no, but that doesn't mean that the reversibility is removed. But then why did the President-in-Office say in a television show that it would be right to reduce the survivor's pension even to his grandmother? It is clear that that is the aim. How then will that junk come to pass that none of you, not even you of the majority who even have a big stomach, would vote? With confidence. Then it's gonna be okay. So, retired, be serene: the things that are being done today for civil unions will be done tomorrow against pensioners and for who knows what other filth that the fertile fantasy of those who are in government is carrying on in this country. Then comes the specific lies about this provision. The question that has been raised most, and rightly so, concerning this measure, are adoptions. They say the adoptions have been removed. There is, however, one problem: European judgments of the Court of Human Rights say two things. I do not agree that the European Court should meddle in matters that should be managed state by state, but this judgment is there and, unlike the Government which does not respect the judgments of the Constitutional Court, it is up to us to respect the judgments. I would be to give recognition to unmarried couples, in any case, even without a judgment from the Court, but the European Court of Human Rights says - this is the first thing - that we must also give a form of recognition to same-sex couples. But it does not say that such recognition must be similar or almost equal to marriage, so much so that many countries that are part of the Council of Europe (which is quite different from the European Union) have very minimal recognitions for unmarried couples of the same sex or of different sex. Another ruling of the European Court of Human Rights also says that if the recognition of these unions is of a family nature, or for more matrimonial reason, then adoptions must be there. That is why we have always said, for this and for other reasons, that we are opposed to adoptions and that we are opposed to equalizing marriage. This, to be honest, was also said by the New Right Centre, which, however, apparently, is about to vote on this text, which is the somewhat tarocked photocopy of marriage with a reference to Articles 143 and 144 of the Civil Code, reproduced in some paragraphs of this monster amendment. These are precisely paragraphs 11 and 12. This makes it so that citizens do not understand anything in reading a law of a single article, where there are both same-sex couples and cohabiting couples who are recognized in a completely different way. Articles 143 and 144 of the Civil Code are reproduced, which are those that are read during marriages whether it is concordat, made in a Catholic church or with another confession that can have this faculty, whether of course it is civil marriage. As a photocopy of marriage, adoptions can also be introduced fairly quickly by a court ruling or, perhaps, by the European Court of Human Rights. There is better: there is paragraph 20 which, in the last period, says: The provisions laid down and allowed for the adoption of the rules in force shall remain as laid down in this Regulation. If they were really opposed to adoptions, it was enough to write clearly that it remains firm that adoptions can be entrusted only to married couples or that... can not be entrusted to couples who join in civil union. Instead, they used this sibylline phrase. It would therefore be interesting to know what the laws in force are. We know the laws, but not the applications. The Government, in an opinion given to the Constitutional Court through the Attorney of the State, seems to have very precise ideas. Too bad, even though this opinion was given a year ago and specifically requested several times, the government does not have the courage to say what, as such, it told the Constitutional Court. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] However, we see that someone must have said something to Il Sole 24 Ore, while to us and to you parliamentarians of the majority, who are going to vote on this crap, this someone has not said anything. So you don't know what you vote for. The "Sun 24 Hours" has said - and could also be wrong, that is why it would be good for the Government to come to point out - that the State's Bill has made it clear that already today the law allows in particular cases the adoption for couples of the same sex, putting in the foreground the protection of the supreme interest of the child. It is a line also affirmed by some judgments of merit. Therefore, unless "Il Sole 24 Ore" - never denied - short stories, this means that according to the Government the current norms, which you are going to vote and confirm from the sentence of paragraph 20 read previously, allow adoptions to couples of the same sex. But you didn't actually have the courage to write it. Do as several have already said that they spoke before me. You wanted to have a wedding for same-sex couples? Do it: you could do it in one article: there was already an amendment two years ago that removed the words "husband" and "wife" from the civil code and put the word "spouse" in it, pretending that the Constitution said something different from what it says (as you do today) and the game was done. You think that the Italians - most of them opposed to this stuff - are idiots and that in that case they would have noticed it while today, doing all this paraphrase, they will not notice. Italians are not idiots; so much so that they will stick you in the constitutional referendum, in the next elections and, if it is possible to make a referendum, on this junk that is being approved today because, precisely, they are not jerks, (and if, by chance, someone is a bit, it bothers him that someone thinks I'm an idiot). Someone may have studied less than many intellectuals who go on television to explain that the family does not exist, that the mother is an anthropological concept, but that someone lives the real life, talks with other people and knows the life of every day and, unlike the great intellectuals, knows a very simple thing: a child is born from a father and a mother. 11:42 a.m. (Malan followed). For this fact there is marriage to recognize this bond, which is considered particularly important, not because there is more love in that bond than in another - that there is love is always a widely desirable thing - but because it is the place where procreation takes place (preferably according to the Constitution); in any case, regardless of marriage, it is evident that procreation takes place between a man and a woman. There is no need to be a holder of so many university chairs to say so; On the contrary, those who have obtained so many chairs have studied so much that they have forgotten ABC and do not know these things. Among the other predictions that we find in this text, there is the one for which couples living together are taken wildly around. Some still try to make them believe that the same rights that this law assigns to civil unions between same-sex couples are assigned to other couples. That's not true! Civil unions are reserved for same-sex couples, and are perfectly equal in marriage; there is no adoption, but it will be granted through the "door of service," i.e. by a court sentence. The government addresses homosexual couples a bit like Checco Zalone, who in his song "The Sexual Men" sings: Sexual men are such people and such as, like us, we are normal. That's kind of the government's attitude. "Yes, you are the same, but you do not enter the front door, you enter from the service door." If they are the same, they are the same; if they are not the same, have the courage to write a rule that says they are not the same for the simple fact that as a man and a man and as a woman and woman so many beautiful feelings can be born, but children cannot be born. This is what you give to civil unions for same-sex couples. For cohabiting couples, instead, we have vague, badly written rights; moreover, there is the power to apply them, but not the obligation. Two people living together may make a pact from the lawyer or notary, but they may not, and some rights derive from them being living together in a stable relationship guaranteed by bonds of solidarity, provided that there is no relation. Therefore, two men, two women, one man and one woman can subscribe to this covenant (two cousins, one uncle and one grandson, cannot do so; it is a very curious thing, an extraordinary fact: one discovers the prohibition of incest in a measure that has nothing to do with incest) and they do so even if a judge considers, in the event of a dispute, that this couple had these bonds of solidarity. These two cohabitants, if they want to sign a pact, go to the city hall, the lawyer or the notary. If they don't, the judge of the case will decide. But it is total madness: an individual can find himself bound without asking. Maybe neither of us asked, but the judge decides there's a bond. These are private charges. Two people live together, whatever the reason, and then maybe they find themselves bound by situations that had no intention of binding: neither. It is also the statization of feelings. This provision remains a series of other very dangerous points, such as easy citizenship with the equivalence, from this point of view, of civil unions for same-sex couples to marriage, for the purpose of granting citizenship. Therefore, why should you give 5,000 euros to a scafist, who maybe then robs you taking what you have with you and makes you risk your life, when, giving the same amount to a pensioner, you earn citizenship and reversibility when the pensioner leaves this world? A masterpiece that will lead to what I mentioned earlier: the reversibility will be bestowed on these people, since the immigrant will be null lieutenant; and in order to guarantee this, the Government will do what it has already announced to do, even if it is subtle: to steal the pension of reversibility and to massacre the rest of the pension to the other citizens, with a procedure equal to that which is being confiscated using today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u47	I inform you that the following letter has been received: Rome, 24 February 2016 I have the honour to inform you, pursuant to art. 6 of Law No 87 of 1953, which the Constitutional Court, today gathered in its headquarters of the Palazzo della Consulta, elected me President. With the warmest friendliness. Paolo Grossi. We wish the new President the most heartfelt and warmest wishes for good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u48	Mr President, I believe that with the non-approval of the former draft law Cirinna, the Democratic Party has lost an unrepeatable opportunity, which would have made it easy for it to have an unprecedented historical achievement. The PD, however, did not have the political and moral conviction and, therefore, the pyrotechnic cunning as an experienced poker player, demonstrated too many times now, has not served. On the contrary, the PD did not immediately have the ability to find coherent alliances, I fear because it itself lacked coherence. Of course, perhaps the errors and a certain confusion of the 5 Star Movement were not predictable, but I will talk about this later. The fact is that we are again faced with an armored text and the presentation of yet another maxi amendment, as a mysterious custom in the contents up to the last moment and known before to the press that to the senators of the Senate, as my colleague Giovanardi says, and with ironed numbers of the majority, also these swingers until the last second, that is until the excavation of the stepchild adoption, glue that magically matches all fragments of the PD, polarizing also part of the center. These are scenes already seen during the examination of constitutional reforms, no surprise. Once again, Verdinians will have a significant specific weight. The Mixed Group - Left Ecology and Freedom will not lend its side, all the more given the importance of the measure, which affects the fundamental rights of people. We are faced with the imposition of yet another confidence by this Government, moreover, on a sensitive issue that concerns the rights of so many people; a meaningless choice, especially after the failure to admit the so-called kangaroos for the premissive amendments of the PD, the North League and Forza Italia. We met rainbow families and LGBT associations, opposing in every way the PD's decision to cement the downward agreement with Alfano. Behind this agreement for the snatch that removes stepchild adoption, there are exponents like Formigoni and Giovanardi, who too often have considered themselves depositaries of the right to exclude so many citizens and citizens from the sphere of citizenship rights, of which civil rights are an absolute and integral part. Too many times, even in the Senate Chamber, they have let themselves go to offensive and discriminatory statements. It is understandable that today LGBT associations feel betrayed by a PD that raised white flag without even fighting, surrendering to the most retrograde and homophobic part of the country. They are right to say that these are calculation games and conveniences, and to think that justice in the Commission had formed transversal majorities that were hopefully enough, but obviously the fear of this House was still too far away. Yet, someone had made promises and assumed responsibilities before the country. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you a question. Who's afraid of rights? The adoption of the partner's son does not take away rights from the children of heterosexual or Catholic couples, making it possible never a little 'light in a firm Italy to the Middle Ages of rights. In the Middle Ages, however, politics is imprisoned and not the real country, made up of women and men who every day meet parents and children in the rainbow, who happily decline all the differences that we will be lucky to meet along our human path. Well, in this diversity of colors, scents and entities, children and families are all the same. We cannot go back to the days when there was a difference between legitimate and illegitimate children, because we are talking about children; it is a pity that the PD lost the opportunity to repeat it with courage and determination, to be cowardly and to have arrogated the right to decide who has rights and who does not. Once again, it will be the judges who push us forward in the field of equality, not Parliament, when they accept the appeals of those who, having obtained civil unions, want a stepchild adoption in fact. We trust in the real country, finally mature to accept the word "equality" in its fullness, unlike its representatives, and we will continue with consistency the fight together with the citizens. We had defined the bill Cirinnà, albeit contradictory, the minimum union compared to our proposals of egalitarian marriage. A compromise that is necessary but not sufficient to place Italy at the level of other European countries in the area of rights. In this House, we have supported it clearly, always and determinedly, together with the associations, in assessing the path of the amendments. We could have reached the approval of the entire text, as presented in the Senate. This is not the case: the question of trust has blown up our best and consistent intentions, including mediation, to give the country a law of guarantee and full equality against all forms of discrimination. I also said at the beginning of the error and confusion of the 5 Star Movement. Why vote against the suspension that famous evening? I sincerely ask, I ask myself, it is not a polemic of begging. In that case we did not have to vote in favour of the kangaroo Marcucci, to understand us, but we had to allow not to die that evening that cultural system that is also made - of course - articles and amendments and that would give the country a law that, for the first time, brought politics and its representatives into line with citizenship and rights. Why didn't he do this? Because what no one can say is that we could not know the outcome of the kangaroo, that it would kill the law with all the premissive amendments it brought. On the contrary, we should have re-launched, after the President of the Senate, the only depositary of the assessment, had subsequently - of course when it was time - given the judgment on the inadmissibility of all the premissive amendments. We have been asked in recent days by the first signatory of the old bill whether we support trust and therefore the maxi amendment. It is not a choice that is in our hands. We of coherence and consciousness do not make it a switch that turns on and off. That bill is no longer enough because it has been amputated by Article 5, which, as had been said on the stages of the demonstrations, was a fundamental element. That bill is now called Renzi-Alfano, the right homophobe that discriminated even in the Assembly. We are the coherence and the question of conscience that we always keep in mind and there is no leader of any party, starting with my own, of the Italian Left or of SEL, who can turn it off or turn it on. To it we will continue to respond today with a vote absolutely contrary to trust and tomorrow we will continue, with those associations that have been betrayed and with those women and men who have felt betrayed, to carry on the fight for the full recognition of the rights and of the egalitarian marriage, as it was in our intentions from the beginning and as we have supported throughout this season. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and members of the Government, once again Renzi, with his band of young-old members of the Democratic Party, effectively prevents Parliament from performing its constitutional function, reducing legislative power to mere adherence to the wishes and even more to the interests of the Government's survival. We are pleased, President Grasso, that she wanted live television on the public service. Indeed, we in the 5 Star Movement for months have been asking, unheard of, that the RAI transmit all Parliament's work on digital terrestrial, in order to allow real and unfiltered information for citizens. We therefore look forward to the Government - which is here - doing something about this, recalling the agenda on the subject that I have proposed and approved by this House. Citizens will thus be able to capture daily and live television the squalor of a majority of government formed by Renzi and Verdini, that is by two scammers who use the vote of the Italians at their liking, as if it were a personal asset to freely dispose of. I do not know what those who voted for the PdL, the then Servant of Berlusconi Senator Verdini, or those who voted for the PD, seeing in Verdini the adviser of absolute evil, embodied in the now betrayed and abandoned Silvio Berlusconi. Certainly, this government is the most resounding example of political and ethical infidelity that republican history can recall. It is no coincidence that we did not want a real debate in Parliament on a fundamental issue for the lives of so many citizens and that it deserved proper discussion and discussion. Between kangaroos, superkangaroos and trust, Renzi once again showed his true face, the true face of his anti-democratic party, worthy heir to the worst communism, reread and updated in the light of the logic of the worst consumerism: in short, from Lenin to the wheel of fortune, where our President-in-Office of the Council formed and moved his first public television steps. Ethical and political infidelity: this is the synthesis of the action of this Government and this is the message that we want to convey to the citizens. Moreover, it is precisely the infidelity that united the trio Renzi-Alfano-Verdini in this new epic government passage. In fact, civil unions will differ from marriages because they are unions between infidels, i.e. between people who are together, but they can easily be with other people as well. This is the typical vision of homosexuality of a hypocritical part of our society, in words linked to Christian values. The idea, in other words, is to imagine people who love other people of the same sex as people who are lascivious, libertines, obsessed with sex and therefore structurally unfaithful. Here the Cirinna invents civil unions, where there is no obligation of fidelity, where in other words you can assume the surname of your partner, but you can safely go to bed with another or, perhaps, as they would probably like to do the pseudo-cattocommunists, with dozens of people, between bunga bunga and secret trips in the dark avenues of the subway. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is a shameful offense to all those people who ask Parliament to say one simple thing, that marriage is the union between two people, regardless of their sex, race, religion or political vision. The trio of wonders Renzi - Alfano - Verdini instead proposes us a legal monster, where two people of the same sex join, can assume the mutual surname, they must wait three months after the manifestation of dissolution, but - heard - they are not obliged to be faithful. Of course, we could discuss for hours what to mean by fidelity. The reading of this majority of infidels is that fidelity is referable to the sexual sphere and, therefore, evidently considering homosexuals persons not sexually reliable, exclude its existence. Apart from the blatant unconstitutionality of such a prediction and the shameful offense to all those who fall in love with another person of the same sex, this is the true signal of the ethical and moral level of this majority of government, false and hypocritical. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A majority that is ready to sell off any principle in order to preserve or acquire an armchair and a wedge of power. Fidelity is what any human relationship is based on and, even more so, a union between two persons, regardless of sex, heterosexual or homosexual. The people, colleagues, are all equal: if they want to create a stable and lasting union before the State, they cannot but be obliged to mutual fidelity, because it is precisely on fidelity that is founded and justified by the legislative and constitutional recognition to which they aspire and which this word law should attribute. Fidelity is much more than the mere exclusivity of sexual relations: fidelity is sharing obligations, suffering, dreams, passions; concepts now lost and certainly not belonging to a majority of government like this. The 5 Star Movement, among the many flaws it can have, will never be unfaithful to its voters and to the democratic rules of Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For this reason he cannot but vote no to this shameful and offensive law; no to the division between faithful couples and unfaithful couples, between A-series marriages and B-series marriages. The 5 Star Movement will vote no to this falsehood and hypocrisy and will continue to defend everyone's right to dream of a better Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u51	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u52	Madam President, unfortunately, I have to say that we have a government which is clumsy. Another term does not come to my mind to indicate the behaviour of those who refused to give Parliament, the senators who intervene and also myself the opportunity to read the memory presented to the Constitutional Court, which is directly related to our debate. In fact, in the delegation that we give to the Government, the Executive must modify and rearrange the norms in the matter of private international law, providing in Italy the discipline of those who marry or contract a civil union abroad. It is clear that if it is true what they have written "the Republic" and "The Sun 24 Hours," the Government has already anticipated that in this reorder it will admit stepchild adoption, therefore the adoption of children bought abroad. However, I can take this view as a supposition, because the Cheap Government stands there with its ears down, looks down and refuses to give the documentation to Parliament. It will allow me, then, Madam President, since I have ten minutes, to use 30 seconds in this way. That's 30 seconds. [[Senator Giovanardi remains silent for thirty seconds.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u53	So it has to be from the Report that you remain silent for 30 seconds? You will then continue the speech, however, otherwise those who have to draw up the shorthand report do not know how to do it. I counted the seconds and they passed; you can take the word again. [[Ironic applause from Senator Lucidi.]] Silence, because I cannot intervene with a government that prevents me from knowing a formal act presented to the Constitutional Court. [[Comments from Senators Cirinna and Lumia.]] Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. That'll be her. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The words, please, must be moderated. Offenses must not be done in this House. I also ask the government to stand in its place and you to continue your intervention. [[Comments by Senators Malan, Palma and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u54	Since I know the Italian language, I went to see the vocabulary. Arrogant, unserious, sloppy in the work, devoid of seriousness and correctness in personal relationships, which lacks speech in relationships; this is the meaning of the word chialron, which applies very well to this Government, which has behaved exactly in this way. [[Applause from Senators Quagliariello and Rizzotti.]] The Secretary may continue to keep his head and ears low, in his contempt for Parliament. [[Comments of the Undersecretary Pizzetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u55	Senator, speak to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u56	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). I turn to the President. In twenty-two years of Parliament, I have never seen such a clumsy attitude. MIRABELLI (PD). Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mirabelli, let me finish the surgery. You, Senator Giovanardi, continue to address the House. The clock is ticking, the ten minutes are over. [[Comments from the PD Group desks.]] Borioli (PD). We have seen the 22 years of damage you have done in Parliament! GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). The offense is us. We're the injured party. Madam President, the draft law opens up to the issue of children bought abroad, of the uterus for rent; just read paragraph 20. The president emeritus of the Mirabelli Council, for his part, has emphasized on "Avvenire" for the umpteenth time that paragraph 20 is the marriage. We talk about the obligations arising from civil union: everything that refers in the civil code to the spouse, husband, wife etc. applies to civil unions. I have heard Mr Martelli of the 5 Star Movement and I have to agree with him: this is what the President of the Supreme Court of the United States Roberts also wrote, when, with five votes against four, homosexual marriages were imposed on the American States (which by popular referendum had always refused it): it is clear that if the assumption is love it is already written that any combination (man-man, woman-woman, polygamy, polyandry) that has as a presupposition a love relationship will have to be recognized as such. There is no reasoning to be made, once the constitutional principle man-woman-sons has been undermined, so no recognition should be given. Moreover, the court of Genoa, as published in the newspapers a few days ago, forced a veterinarian to pay not the compensation for the damage, but the moral compensation, to a lady owner of a dog, because following his intervention he had begun to limp. Well, the court of Genoa wrote black on white that the veterinarian prevented the realization of a lasting relationship of family life that this lady had organized for the future with her dog: sentence in the name of the Italian people, ten days ago. It is clear that a coacervo of norms such as these, which enter with tense leg and which above all recognize only the couples men-men and women-women the institute of civil union, instead create for heterosexual couples another huge, abysmal discrimination. I repeat: two men from now on will be entitled to reversibility, while a heterosexual couple with children who are together for thirty years have no right to reversibility. I would like someone to explain to me the rationale and logic of this provision and to tell me if he has any presupposition of constitutionality. This really is absolutely unbelievable. But why - I ask my colleagues - have you not done a process of revising Article 29 of the Constitution? It was very possible. In the current Constitution, marriage is exclusively between man and woman. All you had to do was change Article 29. No, you have kept Article 29 and you have regulated civil unions, giving them exactly the same faculties, powers and duties as marriage, except for this last surreal affair of fidelity that is not known whether to laugh or to cry. In fact, the rule that civil unions were null and void had just been removed if a homosexual partner discovered that the other was heterosexual, as it was written in the Cirinna bill; it had just been removed the norm that civil unions were unbreakable if the relationship was not consumed (and it would have been interesting to know how the State could verify the consumption or not of a relationship). Now the obligation to fidelity has been removed and, therefore, we have married couples; couples of civil unions based on the relationship of love, but without fidelity; then we have heterosexual couples who can conclude this convention; then we have heterosexual couples and homosexual couples who do not enter into any convention but are already protected by jurisprudence; then we have couples formed by widows or sisters who live together and who have seen that, in a surreal way, they cannot conclude solidarity contracts (you don't understand why, if they are relatives), but the judge can authorize them and finally we have singles. Happy birthday to lawyers and magistrates, when it gets complicated, because the children are coming from abroad. Colleagues of Left and Freedom, don't lie! Children are bought in Mexico, Cambodia, Thailand, India and Nepal; not only in California and Canada. [[Applause from Senators Gasparri and Rizzotti.]] And you are not ashamed to think that these desperate women are bought by the rich lords of the West who use them as ovens to obtain children and then tear them out: deny the evidence. Think then, in this beautiful legal framework, when a child will be of a woman who has given her oocyte for payment, of another who has carried on the gestation, of two lords (one of whom perhaps the father or neither of them) and then will have five parents; this child when he is of the age of adolescence will ask himself: "Who am I to be a child? Who am I? Who's my father? Who's my mother? What's my name? Think of a family tree of a family when situations of this kind are inserted. I heard the other day on Crepet television (secular and progressive) say that for a child, when he becomes a teenager, finding out that he is a child of these procedures is a pain, a trauma that will take his whole life. You play on the children's skin, but right! You privilege the rights of two rich gentlemen to buy a child over those of a desperate woman. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes]] Of course, you don't care, dear colleague, you're a senator, you don't live in the third world and you have to sell yourself to survive or suffer invasive practices to give an egg for a fee of $20,000 to $30,000. The sale of the children goes from 170,000 to 70,000 dollars. But why is there such a variation? According to eugenics, which had already invented the Nazis (nothing new under the sun). The idea of giving birth to perfect children is of the culture of the other century, of positivism, of Nazism. It is useless to tear clothes against Nazism when eugenic practices are again introduced into our century. It is said that Europe asks us to do so. When Europe or Germany, in 1938, asked us for racial laws, I also know that there were four university professors in Italy who were opposed: all the others applauded, because the civilized Germany asked us to do so. You have to be against the current just when the perversions arrive, like programming a child eugenetically. In contracts, it is envisaged that an abortion should be carried out. If the child is not well, according to the contract, he must be aborted, because the clients want him perfect; they want him blond, with blue eyes, without physical defects, with a certain quotient of intelligence, otherwise they throw him away. [[Comments of Senator Bottici]] Senators, is this progress? These are the horizons we want to reach. It's indignant! We have not been able to do this battle in Parliament: the Commission has been bypassed, the House has been bypassed, we have not been able to vote on an amendment; we will do it to the Constitutional Court, continuing to dispute, in the context of a conflict of attribution, the total cancellation of the rights of Members of Parliament in the Commission, before, and in the Chamber, after, with a draft law of the Government. The government told us to stop and we stopped for four months, because the government bill had to come...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u57	Senator, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u58	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Well, the government bill arrived, but it only arrived yesterday, and without the signature of the Head of State. So, two articles of the damaged Constitution and an unclean and ugly trade that is about to be opened and legalized in Italy (just have the money and go abroad). We will fight him in Parliament, voting against trust, and in the country, mobilizing us for the referendum, because it is a battle of civilization. This is the battle of civilization, against these barbarism. It begins now and we will carry it forward throughout the country with that 80% of Italians who have understood this deception and this infamy and will fight with us this just battle. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u59	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u60	Madam President, we hope to be able to make an intervention using as much tone as possible in accordance with the place where we are working, since it has now been created, not only in this House, but also outside of our fellow citizens, a certain climate, with words that perhaps denounce a form of hysteria, on the one hand, and extremism, on the other, that certainly do not help to evaluate what should be an important, delicate standard, which surely affects complex and difficult issues. What is regrettable is that we have to talk about trust here when, for months, we have had the opportunity in the Justice Commission to examine and evaluate the draft law which, we remember, is a parliamentary initiative. And this is important: it was one of the rare cases of parliamentary initiative by now and there was the possibility of creating a balanced standard, perhaps in some ways not acceptable to everyone, but structured as a norm. Then we have arrived at very great contradictions and misunderstandings, I also think of the outside. As has been pointed out in some of my previous speeches, the Government itself and the Minister themselves have expressed their views on this issue in a very confusing way. On the one hand, the President-in-Office speaks of freedom of conscience: we must leave freedom of conscience, it is an ethical, delicate issue, the problem is not easy. I still remember Mr Orlando's words when, in this very Chamber, we came to say that we were considering a situation, calling it a delicate area, in which politics is going to be inserted, with questions that defined profoundly, made during the speeches in general discussion, but especially when we came to say that the Government would not have expressed a political assessment, and that therefore it would be limited only to certain censures, perhaps from the point of view of constitutionality or congruence with the European legislation of possible amendments. Isn't it a political assessment to make a big amendment? I wonder if this is consistent. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] I wonder how this coherence can be read by our fellow citizens, but also by those who support this measure. I would like to know if even those who supported it share it to the full. It does not seem absolutely right to use the Rules of Procedure to look for escamotage, the quirk to be able to bring a large amendment such as this to the House, which goes exactly to stifle months of debate and debate. And then, at the end of the day, who wrote this maxi amendment? What hands have contributed to the maxi amendment? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Which parliamentary component, which individual figures? I would not - and Italy would certainly not - like this text to be drawn up on a table of four, five, six. It was to be a measure of Parliament, where each of us, regardless of the mandate, is nevertheless representative of a part of Italy, with its feelings, with its way of understanding values. Instead, you come to put your trust, which is a sign of grave weakness: weakness of the government because it does not trust the Senate Chamber; weakness of the bill, because probably the great fear is that in this text it would not have been voted, because the famous amendment Marcucci would not have passed and instead some amendments of the League would have been approved, thus modifying the text. Perhaps it would have been changed also in the sense that you proposed, but woe to say it was due to an opposition force; that an opposition amendment had passed that perhaps said exactly what the country wants. In the end we find ourselves with this text. Yet, for those who come from the world of law, I am sorry, gentlemen, to have to find themselves with a text such as this which is provided at the last moment. It took months to understand the first bill and the first unified text that we had in the Justice Commission, because it is not easy to read one rule, to understand its consequences, the implications, especially when the rules are made in this way, with constant calls to one head rather than another. It is a method of making legislation that will always be incomplete, which will only give a great deal of work to lawyers, magistrates, lawyers to try to unravel those huge doubts that will certainly arise from a bill like this. Too many contradictions have emerged in the course of the debate; continue. It is enough to read Article 1 to understand that when it comes to specific social training, in accordance with Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution, there is already a contradiction: the reference to Article 3. This specific social training was in fact the result of the Commission's work to say that this is not a family; yet, recalling Article 3 means - let us remember - evoke the principle of equality between citizens who do not have to be differentiated on grounds of race, sex, etc. How, then, do you say that this respects the principle of equality? If civil union can only be done between homosexuals, this is already an unequal treatment. We do not even understand the reasons - I say this in a technical way - for which it is believed that this type of institution applies only to homosexual couples. It was also noted in the Union of Criminal Chambers, as was mentioned during the debate. It's an unconstitutional rule. If a heterosexual couple wanted to contract this type of contract - it is difficult to call it that, even if it would seem to be a contract in the end, as it is regulated - or if they wanted to enter this institution, it would be denied this possibility. Yet within it there are great benefits for the couple, first of all in the conclusion of the civil union, but above all in the dissolution, because for a heterosexual couple, who necessarily contracts a marriage even civil, must resort to the procedures of separation and divorce. The text recalls the rules on divorce, regulates civil unions by specifically recalling the rules on divorce, but it is said that just a statement before the civil state officer, without the need of a lawyer, courts and to spend money. There is no mention of other institutions, such as maintenance and so on, but there are a number of benefits, such as survivors' pensions, alimony and care and, among other things, there is no obligation of fidelity. Why shouldn't a heterosexual couple have access to this kind of institution? It is a contradiction inherent in the same provision, because those outside wanted this law, wanted it for adoptions. Did you please them? Have you created an institution that can be like the crystallization of a great love, since the obligation of fidelity is removed? What do you want to do with this institution? You obviously make references to the rules on marriage, but only to the most comfortable ones, while the less comfortable ones are not good. In the end, gentlemen, you have almost a banal contract. But then why did you not structure it from the beginning as the regulation of a civil union, as a secular institution, completely distinct and different from marriage, with its rules, its rights and its duties? We agreed and many others were. In the end, to save goats and cabbages, you yourselves and your own apparent dignity - let us call it this - have tried to build something that is neither flesh nor fish, that is neither an institution equal to marriage, at least with a chrism of sacredness, but it is not even a contract. In the end, it would have been enough to look at a solution, as one of those proposed by more than one colleague in the Justice Commission. They could have examined, worked out and worked out a solution. In the end, everything turns out to be chaotic. Just a little: let's think about the same reference to the legislation on successions; why do we recall the legitimate succession and the legitimate ones, but at the same time is avoided all the part that concerns the renunciation of the inheritance and the acceptance of the inheritance with the benefit of inventory? What does all this mean? Either you refer to the rules on successions or you don't recall them. Either you discipline yourself in a certain way, or you don't discipline it, but you don't have to make such a mess. I don't know if it's gonna take the regulations and the implementing decrees to fix this kind of institution. However, there are still great doubts, even in the same way of drafting the norm. We do not understand why some regulations are referred to and others are not. Once a law is drawn up, it seems simple, but when you interpret it before a courtroom, everything becomes difficult. The value of words must be considered. Words are not talk, like what we often do here: every word has a weight. In the legislation we read that the provisions containing the words "marriage" or "marriage" also apply to each part of the civil unions, but later it is also said that this rule does not apply to the provisions of Law No 184 of 1983, or the legislation on adoptions. Why not put the point there? Because an inscription is inserted in which it is said that it remains as planned and allowed to be adopted by the rules in force. What does this rule mean? Why add such engraving? Has the legislator, probably careless, tried to put an extra word? Or does this cut have any targets? Does it mean leaving the existing rules alive? We know that there is legislation in force. First we exclude the application of Law No 184 of 1983 and then we say what is already allowed; we do not want there to be gaps in these rules which have already been overcome or which can be overcome in a case-law: this doubt will always remain, which unfortunately we will not unravel in a few years, when the first judgments are issued. I would also like to reiterate that there are also banalitys - I say this with all due respect - and considerations which already exist. Already from living together more uxorio derive consequences, according to rules already existing or in any case according to jurisprudential interpretations. It could have been done even better, but we found ourselves having to study a provision from evening to morning. It is not that we get here and since there is trust we can limit ourselves to saying yes or no. The most correct thing is to know what is being examined and on which trust is being sought. So let's be serious, otherwise it's just a form of theater. If we are aware of the measure, we can say yes or no with knowledge of the case; otherwise, here we are faced with a fully exonerated House and Constitutional Institution, where a Diktat comes from the Government and what is needed and what can be done here is only what is said: c'est à prendre ou à laisser, either you accept it or you do not accept it. This is a coercion against Parliament and Italy. This was an opportunity, gentlemen. We could have shown here the value of a Parliament, the contribution that we could all individually make to the debate and the debate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] , because extraordinarily this theme has created a wide confrontation also among our fellow citizens, who are out of here; it has created deep reflections. This was perhaps a correct thing, because so many subjects that are processed here, in the end they are not even transposed or assimilated outside, are not even a topic of conversation. At least that's how we got through the debate on football or the last Sanremo. We talked about family and this was a good historical passage, because at least we talked about it. It is regrettable that, in the end, in the face of a marasma from which the majority could not come out and the majority agreements and the government pacts could not stand, where we were even looking for the support of opposition forces to get out a rule that perhaps was not accepted even by the Italians themselves, we found ourselves in a impasse, probably also caused by an action that we of the Lega Nord Group, with a series of amendments. Because if we know how to do something particularly well that is certainly the amending work, and the parliamentary struggle we certainly know how to conduct it well. And maybe he created some tricks, some doubt. The result is that, in front of the impasse, the government arrived and said: here we put the trust directly. And freedom of conscience has gone up the chimney, because I would like to see if there is freedom of conscience. Trust is imposed on an ethical theme: it seems almost propaganda, because it may only seem propaganda, but it is certainly an act of force that we do not want and cannot accept. We, as a Group, are still convinced that this House and the Commission must be the forum for a serious debate, otherwise politics will continue to remain outside, giving only an image of theater and not of what should be, that is, a support, a true interpretation of our society. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in my remarks I will touch on three basic aspects. The first is related to the democratic scam that took place in these hours in this Palace. Secondly, I would like to tell you a little bit about the vote of conscience that has been granted to the Senators of the Democratic Party and, finally, I will focus on this concept of civil unions. We've found out about this plan. The plan to destroy the bill was already ready for about a month and a half, when it was understood that the pros were more than opposed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] How do you make the opposites win and lose favorables? This is done, for example, through an object called "kangaroo." But how can one go the same way if the kangaroo is not voted? There is a large amendment. No one has explained to us yet what is the difference between the kangaroo and the maxi amendment, because the effect is the same. I think we should think about the fact that kangaroo and maxi amendment belong to the same species, to the same breed and can mate. And who is born from this mating? Orphan children are born who will be called Angelino, Denis and also Matthew. These are the three orphaned children of this incestuous coupling between kangaroo and maxi amendment. You, Senators of the Democratic Party, have been given the freedom to express a vote of conscience on this fundamental issue and it is right that it should be so. But the question that immediately arose to me is: why do you not claim your vow of conscience on issues such as Ilva or on the Land of Fires? Where does your conscience go in these cases? Where is your conscience when we talk about maybe suicidal entrepreneurs or families left behind when we know that there are 200,000 Italian citizens living below a zero-euro income and there are 12 million Italian citizens with an income below 10,000 euros? Where is your conscience? Why don't you claim your vow of conscience in those cases too? And then, what has been consumed in these hours, in addition to the destruction of this bill, on which our vows were - it was perhaps the only certainty that there was on this bill - is a true uncivilized union. Another important issue, of course, that has been raised by some, is not to do things against nature. But then I wonder: isn't an uncivilized union between the Democratic Party and the NCD against nature? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Doing politics - this is what you do - with condemned people and sent back to trial, with fraudsters, isn't it against nature? Destroying territories, ruining the environment and the future of our children is not against nature? Vote for a law called Fini-Giovanardi isn't against nature? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why have you never opposed these attitudes against nature? To these illegitimate children of an uncivilized union, Denis, Matthew and Angelino, born from a mating between a kangaroo and a maxi amendment, I say that, if everything goes as it should go and we all hope and we are sure that it will be so, not only will you be democratic orphans, but you will not find any wolf to breastfeed you. That is why you are united, you are uncivilized and you will soon be homeless and also orphans. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u63	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u64	Madam President, today we could begin by saying: finally this Upper House, the Senate of the Republic, brings a law for citizens. Too bad that President Matteo Renzi, together with his allies, New Right Center, Popular Area and the new AL-A entry, played down by placing confidence in the fundamental rights of people. I repeat the term "people" because I never liked the distinction between gay, lesbian, heterosexual and transsexual. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This has created and will continue to create different treatments. We are people with different characteristics, but equal rights. It is as if different rights are recognized for blond people and black people, for tall people and for low people, for white people and for black people. Remember this! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But what is the difference between a person who loves a person of the opposite sex and a person who loves a person of the same sex? What is the difference between a child loved by a family made up of men and women or a family made up of people of the same sex? There's no difference. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The differences put her the culture of those people who, closed in their preconceptions, feel superior to others and raise their children with other preconceptions. Children don't feel different. They play, they look at each other and they recognize each other. It is we adults who do not recognize the equality of people. The text on civil unions presented in this House before the maxi amendment went in part in that sense, i.e. it was trying to eliminate the preconceptions of our culture. When divorce was instituted, the first people who availed themselves of that right were misguided. They were different people, alien to society. Today, fortunately, a divorced person is perceived and treated as a married or unmarried person, simply as a person. I leave out the technical and legal questions of this major amendment which, as is often the case in this House, is written with my feet. There are huge mistakes that I hope will be corrected, because they will offer a side to opponents to bring him to the Constitutional Court. And you haven't solved anything. Take good care of what you're doing. This maxi amendment points to a cultural preconception between heterosexual couples and homosexual couples. Removing the obligation of fidelity to civil unions we want to declare the absurd belief that same-sex couples do not constitute a family, because sentimentally they are inconstant, they are butterflies. This is only to strengthen the concept, wrong and absurd, that a couple of the same sex is not able to raise a child. You should be ashamed of these thoughts and this law, which disturbs your dreams, made in who knows which beds and who knows with which companions. I would have voted yes to the original text, convincedly yes. I can only say no to this horror. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u65	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u66	Madam President, there are many issues that we should sum up at this final stage of a first parliamentary passage. Many things have already been said, but it is good to retrace them. Firstly, it is not true that there has been a wide-ranging debate. We see it today, but even yesterday evening at the Conference of the Leaders it was intended to impose, with a very wavering and obnoxious attitude of the President of the Senate, the final vote today. There were calls for action and we could easily vote on this law tomorrow or Tuesday. The world would not have fallen, but, with a further act of protection, it was intended to mark the parliamentary path of this affair. The basic text had been called by the name of Senator Cirinna, but - I say this without wanting anyone to get angry - I would call it more with the name of Senator Lo Giudice, since the basic text was very conditioned by the problem of adoptions, on which the country divided itself and discussed. The Group to which I belong, in all the various stages of the debate, has always opened up to the regulation of rights in cohabitations between homosexuals. Perhaps we could have discussed this or that detail, this or that amendment, but we have always given willingness and there are legislative proposals to testify to it (among the many, I remember that of Senator Caliendo, quoted several times). We have not shared the texts Cirinna and Lo Giudice and not even the risks of extending this legislation to other cases, which, as I will say shortly, remain. We did not want to go into the matter: we did not do it in the Commission because - it is good that it remains in the proceedings - the basic text which led to the examination of the House without a mandate from the Commission was not the one on which we had discussed earlier, because it has been changed several times. The final text was then brought directly to the House without an examination by the Commission. When we came to the House, there was the matter of the amendments. The Forza Italia Group initially tabled less than 300 amendments, which then reduced to about 200. It is a reasonable number, taking into account that the measure consisted of 23 articles and that it was complex and concerning sensitive and fundamental issues: what are a family, a couple, a marriage, a civil union and a coexistence. We are not talking about banality, but about the fundamental organization of a national community, of a state. These are fundamental principles. I am also thinking of the attitude of other groups, such as the North League, which has tabled a larger number of amendments, and then withdraw some of them to the House. In informal meetings with other groups I myself told, loyally, some group leaders of opposing parties that, with the kangaroo system, they would go to bat (and in fact, following the famous kangaroo, came the maxi amendment that replaces everything). I have loyally said that this is a wrong method, but leaders of the Democratic Party told me: We must do this because we do not trust our group's senators in secret vows. The kangaroo, therefore, had been studied as a gag, but not as regards those who, like us, dissensive from the text of the measure and not by a regulation of unions of other kinds. Then there was - rightly - a dispute over the procedure, which involved various groups, and at that stage the President of the Senate did not, however, declare the so-called kangaroo inadmissible. Last week we were preparing to vote - this is the reality - and we did not vote because there was a certain position on the part of some in this House. If this had not happened, we would have voted. Then, after the weekend, there would have been (I use the conditional not by chance) a reflection that would have led to the declaration of inadmissibility of the kangaroo, which I did not hear in the House. In this regard, I would ask you to acquire the shorthand report in order to understand when the kangaroo was declared inadmissible. The declaration of inadmissibility is also right, because also emeritus senators of the Republic (here there is one more emeritus of all) told me that I have never seen such an unconstitutional thing. I hope they will also say that in public (I do not mention names, because I am not authorized: do a search among those who are most emeritus among the senators present in this House). I hope you tell me in public what you think of that kangaroo. Now we have to vote on Thursday, but we postponed it at the request of the Democratic Party, which is in a hurry to alternate stages: it was in a hurry yesterday, but it wasn't in a hurry the other day because it didn't have the numbers and had to put the gag on its Group. This is also an unserious attitude. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Yesterday you baked the maxi amendment, on which many Members have spoken. The confusion and contradictions are total. There is no point in making a very detailed analysis, but I recall the reference in the preamble to Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution. Therefore, article 29 on marriage is not referred to, but reference is made to article 2, which regulates other social formations. It will be said: isn't that what you wanted? There is also the reference to Article 3, which bears the principle of equality. I will be told that I am against equality, while I am in favour of the greatest possible equality. However, I believe that the appeal has been ardently inserted in order to allow, in the course of appeals, disputes and scrutiny of the Constitutional Court (i.e. everything that normally happens in a free and democratic country), to plead, given the reference to the principle of equality referred to in Article 3, that civil union is not equal to others. Even for adoption and more, we have tried, I say not to throw the ball in the forum, but to use a trick. In fact, if on the one hand the people of the Family Day - to which we pay tribute because it is a sincere democratic expression, offended and vile even in this House by some political representatives because some can also manifest by blocking Renaissance Course, others, instead, are zulu because they are not on the side of those who decide who are the good and who are the bad in this country - it has won, you might say, because article 5 of the text The Judge-Cirinna - the adoptions - has been deleted, however, paragraph 20 of this maxi amendment is a desired masterpiece of confusion and ambiguity. Dear senators who were dissenting in the Democratic Party, I understand your difficulty. Some have also been put on the table by a 5 Star Senator because a Democratic Party senator applauded my speech in this House. So if anyone agrees with me, don't applaud me, you don't have to, because then you might have some problems. Well, paragraph 20 contains an artifice on this matter, and then comes to this formula: The provisions laid down and permitted in respect of adoptions by the regulations in force are still in place. It will be said that it is trivial: how can it not remain in force what is already written in the laws? In fact it is written specifically to heal the jurisprudence that has occurred, to create those holds for which the reference to Article 3 of the Constitution in premise, equality, together with paragraph 20, in the end two plus two will make four. So the people of the Family Day, a democratic part, with freedom of expression and the right to speak in this country, on the one hand it seems to have won, but on the other hand, I believe that already in paragraph 20 and in the various references that are there, there will be many confusions. Just as some senators who are part of the majority have recognized that there is an overlap between marriage institution and civil union, so there is, in several parts of this text, the judgment 138 of 2010 of the Constitutional Court: a very secular act. I'm not talking about religion or God here. I believe, however, that it is also a right to be believers, but here we are in a country where - I remember - when the Council of State issued a certain decision on homosexuality wrote about "the Republic" that there were two members of the Catholic Council of State. Think a little about you: I hope there were more than two Catholic members on the Council of State, but since we are neither in Sri Lanka nor in the Islamic State, what do we do, do we hunt the Catholics? Or should we mention Cross that also secularly recognized an identity that was also cultural of our nation? But for God's sake, the Council of State must not decide with the Bible in their hands or with the Gospel. We are not, in fact, an Islamic state where the book of religion also becomes the book of law. Luckily, we have different books and texts. So we in point of law and secularly contest this text because, as he said (and I quote him hoping not to create problems since he has already spoken publicly) Maurizio Sacconi, who also used a very nice expression, if megola is a cat. There is the overlap between marriage and civil union in so many points of this maxi amendment. Did Aquilanti draw up this text as well? Yesterday, in fact, Boschi was waiting and Senator Finocchiaro was forced to intervene to waste time saying false things. He said, not answering my question on the Rules of Procedure you referred to, that the amendment was correct and is not correct for the reasons that have been said: it required the authorization of the President of the Republic not being a draft law of the Government, procedures, confusion of the text. It is also a grammatical text. Last night, in making a first examination, we also found errors of a material order that we will not tell you, because this will be for us a means of subsequent political struggle also in this respect. So the Eaglemen on duty, I don't say the poor Woods who make the postman and come here with his little leaflet and say that the government has presented the trust: we therefore give you note that you are the spokesman. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u67	Senator Gasparri, I invite you to respect the functions of the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u68	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). She's a spokesperson and she's brought a grammatical text, then she'll see in a few weeks. There are grammar and logic errors that we won't tell you, so our fight will be facilitated. We have defended the right of children to have a family and I have been the subject of controversy because I asked publicly why on television you can say that 80-100,000 euros have been spent to have a child while you do not have the courage to say so in the Senate? [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] The other day Senator Tonini described Senator Lo Giudice's interview as wrong and unpleasant. Tonini can say that, on the evening Corriere, and Gasparri can't say it? I'm different. Am I less than Tonini? I want to say that if one goes on television and says something, then he also discusses it here in Parliament. These children did not bring them stork: they are bought and someone sells them. Then it will be said that they give to the clinic, that there are fixed rights, stamps and I don't know what (a list of countries has been made). We consider this to be an obnoxious thing. On the left they had to wait for groups of feminists to make posters and public prayers against the uterus for rent, to say that, yes, we have to fight the uterus for rent. Moreover, two homosexual men cannot create a life and this is not forbidden by the Bible or the Gospel, but is a natural problem. The norms, including constitutional ones, take back principles of natural law when defining marriage. It is a fact that comes before the law and the law, when we refer precisely to the principles of natural law, does nothing but resume what is in nature and that it cannot change. On this, too, we will continue our fight in defence of children, who do not buy and do not sell; this we want to be repeated. And do not say that in the law there was no written, because even now the drafting of paragraph 20 of this maxi article is ambiguous: it opens the way to adoption forms that then, in many cases, are the result of business and trafficking that are made and are flagged on television. It is enough to have an iPad to find, on the website of "Le Hyene", of "Direct Take" or from other parts, broadcasts and public statements that then you do not have the courage to come here in the Senate. You have the courage and you say you want to do this, because you think it's right. Then we'll discuss it. I'm arguing. I'm not stopping anyone from saying that. But I reserve the right to oppose and challenge this practice of child buying. Another argument, also used earlier by some senator on the left, is that we are behind and we are obscurantists, while the others are ahead. Buying children doesn't mean being ahead. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] They are behind and those who want a world like this are obscurantists. So there's no going back or forward: parenting is that, the birth of people is that. I think that all of us in here were born in the ordinary way, I don't think anyone was cloned or created in the test tube. Today science can allow for a thousand things, but I believe that there must also be a limit, from this point of view, and that everything that is possible should not be allowed. There have been gag procedures, especially with regard to colleagues in the Democratic Party, and then there has been this success on the part of colleagues in the New Right Centre, who have removed the bond of fidelity. Of course, they are incompatible with fidelity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] They were unfaithful to the voters. They were unfaithful to the people who sent them here. So it is clear that they asked to cancel allegiance, because a precedent would have been created that could have been recalled for their electoral mandate. Perhaps this was the case, because then objectively, in this law, we leave the possibility to assume the surname of the person with whom a civil union is contracted, we leave many patrimonial aspects, we leave the reversibility and we said instead to remove the bond of fidelity. As Senator Giovanardi said before, this is a somewhat surreal discussion, but in my opinion the reason was that: as soon as some senators of the New Right Center knew that there was the bond of fidelity, they proposed to cash it out. Maybe they were mad at us and they didn't realize it was another matter. I believe that the debate will continue, both in the country and in Parliament. The law will go to the House and we'll see what happens when we talk about adoptions. We will continue our battle on parenting. In fact, there is another phony subject, taken up last night even by Raffaella Carrà. Why do I quote you? Because he's a national popular character. Raffaella Carrà said that there are poor abandoned children and that a gay couple better take them. For every orphaned child there are seven applications for adoption by heterosexual couples. The problem is, if anything, to review the adoption law and even those who now manage those offices, coming from the Democratic Party benches of this branch of Parliament, which manages the adoptions inefficiently. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] Is it inefficient, Madam President? I'm just doing this out of politeness. Then let's make a law to facilitate adoption. All these artists, thousands, who sign posters and use this topic, actually know nothing. Know - you will not listen to us, but we will tell you until your ears are drawn - that there is a great deal of applications for adoption by heterosexual couples, who follow the principle of'imitatio naturae': adoption is reserved for heterosexual couples precisely because they recreate the natural environment of birth. There are many controls, which cannot be deleted, but which must probably be carried out more quickly. So we are ahead, because we are on the right side, on the side of nature and the family. I believe that with all the time that you have denied us to discuss this bill, we can now be allowed to do so. In fact, several parliamentary groups held a press conference together and I stress it as a political fact: the Forza Italia Group, the Northern League Group, that of GAL with Quagliariello and Mario Mauro, Giovanardi, with the battle that he did, the Group of Conservatives and Reformists and other parliamentarians were also united to take initiatives to protect the family to which he does not devote the same time, the same attention and the same mobilization. I therefore thank once again the people of the Family Day, which called for the defence of the traditional and natural family also in terms of tax, social, protection in the housing emergency. There are many issues and we will have to follow them more. We do not feel defeated, but certainly overwhelmed by this way of proceeding, by this arrogance, by the vow of trust. Some colleagues have already said that the government has nothing to do with it, that the government is abstaining, but then eventually it even puts trust and there are those who say that it is a half victory. I understand the states of necessity of those who will vote for trust, but you also know that the text is not good: it is legally, constitutionally, sow confusion. We do not want to cause confusion, but we will continue the battle on the front of secular and republican law and legality. There would be many other things to say to the papists every other day that say: "the Pope said..." The Pope said very clear things, but we are not here in the name of the Pope, but of the Italian people. I wonder if anyone wanted to confront me. I have seen people who saw the church for the last time on the day of their baptism behave as exegetes of the Church, because they did not choose to go there but the parents (who were a man and a woman); then since that day they have not seen a church and cite the Pope and Galantino. Study, look at the real things. But we will do this in conferences. This is the secular Parliament of the Italian Republic, where it is a duty to say no to this Government, not to an unconstitutional text. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u69	We greet the students and students of the Istituto Superiore (Aeclanum) of Mirabella Eclano, in the province of Avellino. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there would be a lot to say, as President Gasparri said just now, but we have started talking today, when nothing can be done now. Today, Madam President, it loses Parliament; I lose my ideas, I lose my colleagues who, even with personal passion and with their experience, have supported the first draft of the Cirinna bill. It loses democracy, because this debate should have been at a time when we were talking about the amendments, at a time when each of us, proud of our political diversity, could present and express our positions before the country. I am sorry and sorry that those who have arrived in this Parliament also represent social policies, such as those we are discussing now, other than my own ideas, but who have personally expressed themselves, have put their faces and their political and personal feelings into trying to put this House in a position to decide democratically what was the future of so many people. Why today, Madam President, should we be ashamed of our political and valuable anchors? Why does the government no longer allow this House to be free in democratic confrontation? Everyone knows that in this House he can win or lose, his idea can be winning or losing, especially on a subject like this. I do not know if colleagues consider it an ethical issue. I think it is, because at a time when we are dealing with issues such as these, often - indeed normally should be so - each of us has its own thoughts. I, like so many colleagues, believe that, despite their religious belongings, they had identified it as an opportunity to be lay actors in some choices. No, you don't. It seems to me, colleagues, I tell the whole House, that I am in a rigged casino, where we are the chickens who arrive, but in the end the government always wins because it has rigged the roulette. We're not playing a clean game, we're playing a rigged game. And there is a political reasoning, Madam President, that I was doing earlier: for a while I imagined that the advent of Renzi, from Leopolda onwards, was a radical change in the Italian political framework. I imagined it was for political reasons and for the recomposition of a political area that, like all areas in the last twenty years, has undergone mutations and changes. No, I do not; I believe that at this moment a political area has not been reborn, with which I, with my values, can confront myself, but a very dangerous qualunquism has been reborn. In fact, the result of these two, three tragic days from the point of view of democracy is that there is no government position (which should not have been for the government's own declaration), but a position of survival, with some basic something that is absurd. In short: first it was the fault of the North League, because the amendments we had tabled were too many; then we withdrew them, but it was not good; then it was the fault of the 5 Star Movement, simply because they opposed a question of principle that they have always advanced and that is that kangaroos are not done. Then we came to about 500 amendments (I don't remember the exact total), but it was not good either, because we had to mediate. Mediating on what? On the personal ideas of the many Members who thought they could vote in this House? But then something has changed, Mr President, because I register the change of a political fact in what is first and foremost no longer a political majority. I have just read an agency by my colleague Barani, who says that the AL-A Group has basically bothered to act as a spare wheel to a majority that is not there. But this, Mr Barani, would be a polemic if I spoke to you about any measure, not a measure with such important ethical bases for which we are looking for the spare wheel. I am not calling her a spare wheel, but I am saying that it is clear that the same majority, and even more so, the Democratic Party itself, no longer has a political line. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This means that we are governed by a majority in which the major party does not have a political line, not only, but that it needs its votes, AL-A, Verdini and Barani, to mortify its parliamentarians who, with very different ideas from mine, are no longer even able to influence the parliamentary vote that is forbidden. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] I believe, Mr President, that we need to take a deep thought which is linked to this measure, to how we do politics and to what we want this Parliament to do. In two days we have voted on two trusts: one on the milleproroghe and tonight, at 19, we will vote on the confidence on a measure that has hit the country and has entered the houses, also through televisions. People wondered, what is this law? How will it affect society, my neighbor or my friend who may be homosexual? What will be your expectations? Well, how do you close it? Compared to the expectations of our neighbor puts you to trust. This is also a political fact. My question is: for what little I know of Parliament, if it is true that the confidence given is a proper trustworthy and political relationship between a government and its majority, I believe that, at the time when so many parliamentarians are required, so as not to drop the government, to vote politically, it means that there is no longer a majority, because on a subject like this it is clear that the summaries have not been useful and have never arrived. Parliament's mortification is not simply of this House, which today, of course, knowing that almost nothing is needed, is half empty, despite the fact that the pages of the newspapers are full. It is the synthesis of this policy, represented by a Government that wants to take the ace all and that first claims that it does not want to be interested in the issue, but that it then seeks mediation. Let me put it this way, Mr President: voting on one of the most important measures of this parliamentary term, no matter what one thinks, is used to maintain a majority in government to do other things. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] Today, in this House, people's rights have been traded - I insist, no matter what one thinks - to continue to do other things, which are highways, interests. Madam President, I am addressing you because I know that you are sensitive, as well as an important member of the Democratic Party. But I wonder, when you do those meetings, which I always see, almost on television, of directions and assemblies: is this a piece of program or isn't it? If it is not a piece of the program, then it is the downward mediation for friends' friends to do other things; if it is a piece of the program, perhaps it is necessary to identify a diversification between the Presidency of the Council and the secretariat of a party. If the secretariat of a party betrays itself, with respect to its electors, its members, its parliamentarians, in order to get the same person to go on as President of the Council, there is a political problem. The problem, however, dear President, is that this insensitivity is pouring into the whole country. I could say, as many colleagues have said, that we are a little tired of living in a country where everything changes or does not change depending on the stomachache of the PD. But today, Madam President, we mortify people outside, we mortify rights and we mortify a country that might need not fake sensitivity but true truth. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u71	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u72	Madam President, this is, in my opinion, a day that many people will leave bitter in their mouths, because in reality there are half-victories and half-defeats, something very common, of course, in politics. Personally, I am very concerned about the gravity of the moment: I can't accept that the different from me doesn't have the same rights as myself, even if it's different because of the color of the skin, because of its religious faith, because of its sexuality. Civil unions are a requirement of the community of homosexuals in the wake of their experiences of loneliness, rejection and contempt. Discussing these issues in terms of political victory or to create splits in the opposing party I find it humiliating and reductive compared to the civil value of what we are going to legislate. Having followed the debate begun this morning in the Assembly, I must say that it was not only the SEL Group, of which I respect all the individual components, which on this bill never had ambiguity, but also we in Italy of values have always kept the bar straight, without any ambiguity, because for us this law is - and was even more in the Cirinna version - an added value. I have heard that the problem is religions, that have a unique thought and that, therefore, one political part is conditioned by this, while on the other side we have consistency; but, in this case, it is the coherence of 'noi against all, always, much more similar to the coherence of a sect. Certainly not the coherence against the kangaroo, otherwise it would mean forgetting that Mr Toninelli and other Members of the 5 Star Movement, on 31 January 2014, had submitted to the House a premissive amendment which, approved, would have caused the majority of the amendments tabled by the other Groups to lapse (so a kangaroo amendment). But this debate brought me back mainly in time, in the 1980s, when AIDS began to make many victims among the young people of my generation. I remember the television debates, where people came to say that the plague of homosexuals was a fair punishment for those who had aberrant or otherwise different sexual habits from those of normal people as heterosexuals. Then things touch you closely, you no longer see them on television or in movies, but they affect your affections and you realize that it is no longer a difference in sexual habits what is fundamental, but it is the loss of friendship relationships, of real people with whom you have shared emotions, pleasures and disappointments. The death of a friend, to whom you hold your hand until the final moment and for which you can do nothing else; and can't help but make you change the perspective of the way you see something that you previously considered an abstraction far from your world, simply because you believed that the different were a theoretical abstraction of which you could talk by sipping a coffee in a living room. I clashed with the indifference shown to the rights of homosexuals; I thought this bill would give dignity to so many of those different people who have gone through my life, giving me so much humanity that it has helped to make me better. I could have been proud to be able to return this gift received with another gift: the right to be considered equal. Sensitivity in this case goes beyond party dynamics. For now it has not been so, so I am disappointed, but I will come back soon with a smile because I know that I will never stop fighting for the things in which I believe, sometimes wrong, not for political calculations, but for the love and gratitude I feel for the many people other than myself that I have been lucky enough to meet in my path. Finally, as a politician, I know that each of us has the power to change things, but many times we do not use it; we lower our heads and accept party orders or leaders in the hope of being able to use this power in better times. In doing so, we often reduce ourselves to impotence; indeed, we wallow in impotence and from this we can no longer free ourselves, with the consequent frustration. I know I got rid of both of them and I thank the people who accompany me on this path because I have the power to defend the values in which I believe, and I hope to have the ability to realize them. My parents, who lived the Resistance, taught me that we must fight to the end for their ideas. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u73	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u74	Madam President, today is a sad day, yet another day in which we should be ashamed of being Italians, citizens of this country and parliamentarians, because we are seeing an abortion that for more than a year and a half has been a dream, a goal that seemed attainable: to have a law that, as we all know, is extremely necessary, required, that would align us with the rest of the civil world. But we've been saying that for a long time now. I would like to focus on an aspect that has struck everyone with respect to the text of this maxi amendment, on which the Government for the umpteenth time wants to drown parliamentary freedom by imposing confidence: the known cancellation of the obligation of fidelity for homosexual couples who will use the institute of civil unions, remaining the other two obligations that are typical of married couples, heterosexual ones: that of cohabitation and mutual assistance. To the question of why we wanted to remove this obligation of fidelity for homosexual couples, the answer that I - and not just myself - have given myself is that evidently this was the price that PD had to pay for the support of the New Right Center in humiliating and deliberately mortifying the status of homosexuals. By saying, in fact, that there is no obligation of fidelity for you, couples of men and women who join civil unions, we encourage you in your sexual promiscuity: you are a couple that is not stable, because you, homosexual, today you are with Lucius but tomorrow you will be with Alexander; therefore, you are not a family. It is clear that this is the message - I think it is devious - that with this amendment we wanted to give, beyond the regulatory scope, that it is minimal. Anyone with experience of courts knows that the obligation of fidelity as a cause of charge already today in marital relations is almost nothing. There is then a definite ideological will to mortify and humiliate homosexual couples, our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] This is something that should also be ashamed of those with whom we have shared an honest, genuine and sincere parliamentary path in the Commission and - I must say at this point - naive on our part in defending that text of law which is now nullified. On the other hand, of this anti-homosexual ideological prejudice we had the feeling in the event of the Family Day, in that of the Pirellone of Milan illuminated by the President of a Region that, as we have seen, did not know what his right arm did, and when the organizer of that meeting, Gandolfini, in the ideological summa of that encounter and of that manifestation, wanted to remind us that sex - I go to memory and hope to quote it correctly - is not sexual pleasure but is the means by which God gives life. That is the parareligious cultural incipit, and I say "parareligious" because I as an atheist want to believe that religious people or believers do not want to submit to this medieval intellectual subordination. But that's the basic reasoning. God gives life; life is created with sex, with the exchange of two gametes (one male and one female), so you homosexuals are not family, you are not worthy of cultivating affections, love, growth, education of the offspring. But not even among you: you are not a family, you are not required to be faithful, because you are promiscuous, you are "gentaglia" (gentaglia). [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini]] This is the message that will pass when the majority of this House votes to vote for this crappy piece of law contained in the maxi amendment, beyond all the technical remarks to which it has also referred and which make it clear that that piece of law will be demolished and razed to the ground by decisions of legitimacy and merit of the jurisprudence, also for its abstruse legislative construction. What remains to be said, then, if not the great regret of not having been able, I together with my colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, use this vote, which we were looking forward to using to say yes, do we pass this bill? And instead today we have to clash daily and climb the mountain disinformation. Even today on the headlines of the newspapers or in the questions that are asked to us, we are talking about the opposite front of the 5 Star Movement, of this altar; we are asked: "Who told you? Was it a phone call of this or that? There was no turning back: we were always consistent. For the past year and a half in the Justice Commission, we have voted on the single texts; Senator Cirinna's unique text had arrived in the Chamber with our decisive vote. We were proud of it and did not make it a question of political belonging, let alone of the instrument of party struggle, of political games. Maybe yes, we are naive, maybe this is our fault, but, excuse us, fools no. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Because they want us to pass for those who have betrayed a covenant, even though they have acted in a manner that is at least sudden. The point has already been mentioned before me, but I would like to return to the publication of the text content of one of our good colleague of the Group, Senator Alberto Airola, who we know with how much courage and generosity he has spent in order to reach the goal. The publication of that text is still used today when we are asked: But then it's true that you said yes to the maxicangaro but then you changed your mind? With the utmost intellectual honesty, reading that text, you read exactly the opposite. The Assembly of the 5 Star Movement Group, when that text was sent, had not yet reached any determination. The determination he has made with regard to the maxicangaro was not to vote for it for the reasons that seemed even clearer to us after, even before the declaration of inadmissibility by President Grasso. Because we understood that that maxicangaro, a dinosaur kangaroo, that premissive amendment of a regulatory nature - here I do not want to reply to a colleague because I would like to spend my time more usefully in understanding - would put the entire regulatory system at risk. In fact, as has been said and brilliantly illustrated in an article by Professor Ciaurro, published on the website of the Italian Constitutionalists Association, if a single vote on the individual article, following the adoption of the maxi amendment, had been negative, there would have been a contrast between the premissive amendment that contained the entire regulatory mechanism and a vote against an article. With all the best intentions, even if the League had not withdrawn the 4,500 amendments, if we had also wanted to sacrifice (which would have cost us a great deal and would not have done so) the consistency of not adhering to parliamentary instruments that suppress the debate and democracy, even if we had done all this and today we could escape the instrumental accusations of some members of the Democratic Party, we know that we would have put at risk the entire bill that would have entered a drawer. What are we talking about, then? I like to quote a post from a citizen, who talks about modern communication, of which we are inevitably victims and sometimes, perhaps, even executioners, according to which one of the problems of modern communication and the media is that they induce a sort of selective and short-term memory in the public. Things only remember if the media keeps talking about it, otherwise they forget. We know this well and that's why it is necessary that the opposing propagandist machine continues to tell us "Why did you turn back? It's your fault, it's the usual fault of the triggers. Continue the post: If an event is no longer mentioned by the media it is intended to be irrelevant. The news is the things you say, but also the things you don't say and so on. Afterwards he posted an article in the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" - beware: not of Beppe Grillo's blog - of January 27, 2016, in which he took into account the agreement reached between the League and the Democratic Party in which the two political groups would agree the withdrawal of 90% of the amendments by the League while by the Democratic Party, confirming the agreement reached, arrived the statements of the senators of PD Andrea Marcucci - look a bit! - and Laura Cantini, who had presented the kangaroo norm, saying: We note with satisfaction the commitment made by the Presidents of Lega e Forza Italia to have at least 90% of the amendments signed lapsed. The aim was to ensure real discussion on the Cirinna bill, without obstructionism. Target achieved... president. I invite you to conclude, Senator Buccarella. BUCCARELLA (M5S). ...and then we withdraw the maxicangaro. Then the narration ofrenziana and of those who are willing to sacrifice their dignity, which continues to want to point us as responsible, must be rejected to the sender with the utmost determination. We wanted to go further into the frankly uncomfortable use of private communications, which in normal parliamentary relations there are among colleagues, especially among those who sincerely share a common goal, it would be appropriate to ask whether some text messages have happened, by a member of the Democratic Party Group, in which it stands with certain date, long before in the Assembly the League withdrew its 4,500 amendments, which was known the decision of the 5 Star Movement not to vote on the maxicangaro. I do not want to go down to the level of publishing text messages, because it is a practice that would distort political activity: I am convinced of that. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But if that text was sent, if you wanted to publish that too, or maybe tell your party leaders, we could have a more transparent, clearer and more beautiful debate. Today we could have celebrated with a smile and with satisfaction the fact that many of our fellow citizens can reach the minimum conditions of livability in a civilized country...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u75	I invite you to conclude, Senator Buccarella.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u76	BUCCARELLA (M5S). ...but we are once again forced to stop our noses and see also colleagues who respect bowing our heads and giving up their founding values, at least those declared. Goodbye! [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Candiani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u77	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government today is a sad moment, it is a very sad phase, even for LGBT people: I tried to identify with them. It seems to me that the text, on which the Senate - not us - is going to approve the trust, rebrands the point that, first of all, had to be overcome by this law, that the Italian LGBT citizens are something else, are less than the others. In this Parliament it is represented - quite clearly in some cases too - that part of Italy that beats homosexuals and moves lesbians. It has also been shown in some speeches, frankly bleak and unbearable, by some of my colleagues in the right centre. Never like today do I feel proud to be away from that way of thinking. The approach whereby people who have different characteristics and orientations from those of the majority should be put in a corner is a primitive attitude in the worst sense of the term and does not, in most cases, have to do with religions; it has to do with a traditional understanding of culture that tends to identify with religion, but only to legitimize it. In most cases, associating with a majority serves to cover one's insecurities. Unfortunately, this is a significant step in this area. So, by empathizing with my fellow LGBT citizens, today I feel sad and humiliated. As far as the political analysis of this matter is concerned, I can only record two things. First of all, the Democratic Party has presented itself to this event. The Democratic Party should represent progressive Italy, at least in its way of presenting itself. In the face of this event, instead, he presented himself strongly split, so much so that he needed the votes of the 5 Star Movement to pass the text of the law Cirinna in its primary formulation. The 5 Star Movement wasn't there. Attention! I know that the vast majority of the Parliamentary Group of the Senate of the 5 Star Movement is in favour of the law in the formulation of Senator Cirinna; but I also know - and I know it directly, for a personal experience - that the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement is not autonomous, but depends on a different decision-making centre, of which parliamentarians are spokesmen. It is not the network; I say it out of misunderstanding because the network had expressed itself on this subject. It's Mr. Casaleggio and Mr. Cricket that they have, and they're forced to obey. [[Comments from Senators Airola and Bottici.]] I regret this because many of those colleagues recognize a deep intellectual honesty and attention to this problem. The point is that that organization is not built either to govern or to make politics, but only and exclusively to collect consensus. Then, what should be done with this consent is not given to know. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia and Romans Maurizio]] You don't know if it has a merely freezing function. In the end, the most important ally of the Democratic Party in these Houses of Parliament is the 5 Star Movement because, with its activity, it freezes the current situation and prevents a political evolution of the Italian reality. It had happened three years ago with Mr Bersani's attempt to form a government and it has repeated itself today, proposing a 5 Star Movement that is heterodirect and dramatically harmful to Italian society. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Collina]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u79	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u80	Madam President, I must record with regret what has happened in this Parliament. The Democratic Party has decided from the outset that this bill should not be discussed and never wanted to discuss the possibility of making corrections. But even the corrections accepted were not understood by the Democratic Party. In particular, the clear proof of what I am saying is the full reliability of the 5 Star Movement, which four times supported the various formulations of the Cirinna texts in the Commission. And he had decided to support it in this House too, if a coup d'état had not been attempted to prevent the debate; a coup d'état which meant the denial of Parliament itself, with a kangaroo amendment which did not even have its own preceptive effect. And here's proof of what I'm saying. Mr. Undersecretary, you have careful legislative offices. You have great lawyers. I am therefore surprised that, having accepted my proposal to call them social formations and to refer to them in Article 2, you have not understood what social formations are. The Democratic Party itself has not understood what social formation means. And since I was probably not good at explaining what social training was, I would like to remind the Undersecretary of judgment No 2400 of 2015 of the Court of Cassation. The process of constitutionalization of unions between persons of the same sex is not based, contrary to what the applicants claim, on the violation of the anti-discrimination canon dictated by inaccessibility to the matrimonial model, but on the recognition of a common nucleus of rights and duties of assistance and solidarity proper to the affective relations of couples and on the relevance of such relations in the beehive of social formations directed to the development, in primary form, of the human personality. From this recognition arises the need for a homogeneous treatment of all situations which present a deficit or a lack of protection of the rights of the members of the union, resulting from the lack of a protective status of relations other than marriage in our legal system. That is why I had tabled a bill, and also amendments, so that the discipline that we had to identify was reserved for both homosexuals and heterosexuals. Then the homosexual definition is wrong. They're same-sex people. The President of the Council has probably not been informed of this, because in a statement he made a few weeks ago he explicitly stated that unmarried couples should be treated in the same way. There's this misunderstanding. You can't figure out what your position is. Therefore, the inability to respond or realize what social formations are has led you to discuss with the New Right Center the obligation of fidelity. Removed or left did not change anything because this law, as it is written, lends itself to being exploited by a number of people. It is not written anywhere that they must be homosexual. It's just written, same-sex people. Therefore, undersecretary Pizzetti and Deputy Minister Migliore can very well sign a civil union. And they will be entitled to the survivor's pension, to the legitimate succession and to all the other beautiful consequences of this measure. It's not written anywhere, this report is not qualified. In my text he described himself as a stable coexistence based on emotional bonds, with duties of solidarity and moral and material assistance. This is not provided for in your text. This is a neutral text from this point of view. Unlike what I read in the ruling of the Court of Cassation, you tried to model it on the institution of marriage, even reaching quite crazy situations, such as the intervention of the prosecutor for the assessment of the nullity of civil unions, as if it were an institution of public law such as that of marriage (it is not). Senator Lumia's amendment copied what is written in the Civil Marriage Code. Suddenly, while talking about something else, it is expected that the civil union constituted on one side during the absence of the other cannot be challenged as long as the absence lasts. But it is not written anywhere that it is not a temporary absence or a few weeks. We are talking about a legal institution such as the absence declared after two years. Let me turn to another arrangement. I think Secretary Pizzetti has no responsibility. Paragraph 8 provides that the party may at any time challenge the marriage or civil union of the other party. A copy of Article 124 of the Civil Code, which entitles the spouse to challenge, where appropriate, the marriage kept hidden by the person who married and rightly empowers only that spouse without time limits. In this case, instead, we talk about the part of the civil union that appeals to marriage. It is established that if the nullity of the first civil union is opposed (as if there were already two civil unions), this question must be considered in advance. There are all Senator Lumia's amendments, and please read them. They are nothing but the transposition to the letter and article of the civil code into the content of that article, as if this were enough to make the institution different from marriage. They are identical: just read them and compare them. Mr Undersecretary, in paragraph 19, you have done a correct thing for living together in fact, placing the food obligation on those in need in fifth place, that is, after their father-in-law and mother-in-law. What position have you given to the civil union? You don't know. You wrote that the provisions of Title XIII of the Civil Code apply. I do not have to teach you, as you know very well that the obligation to provide food is determined by an order prescribed by law. What is the location of the part of the civil union? Let's say I'm still a judge and I have to interpret this rule, how would I interpret it? By using what you have written for de facto unions, or by giving that obligation to your spouse without any indication on your part? I'm moving on. Paragraph 20 states that the provisions referred to in the previous period on adoptions do not apply to the norms of the Civil Code, as well as to the provisions of Law No 184 of 4 May 1983, without prejudice to the provisions and permitted in the matter of adoption of the current rules. What does that mean? Have we returned to fascism and to the obligation of uniformity and conformity of the interpretation of jurisprudence? But it's not like that either. For those who do not know, I have to remind you here: regarding the judgments of the courts that have applied point (d) concerning cases of special cases, the Court of Cassation in 2013 said that this hypothesis cannot be applied. Learn, read: It cannot be applied because it concerns the livelihood of couples that they can adopt. That is the impossibility of preadoptive reliance. Therefore, the Government should also have a strong capacity for evaluation, thanks to its legislative offices: I am faced with a text that not only lends itself to the most varied interpretations but presents madornal errors. If I have to respect the sentences, as here deliberately and hiddenly you mean, what sentences do I have to respect? The ones of any judge of merit or of the Court of Cassation? I'm asking, but I know I don't get an answer. Apply separation and divorce, but then introduce an entirely new institution. Hypothetically, if I were part of a civil union and wanted to dissolve it, I would have to go before the civil state officer and say I want to dissolve the civil union. I say this: nothing is written, Mr. Undersecretary. Where will it be recorded, where will my statement be kept? In fact, it has its own specific relevance to the legitimacy of the proposition of the divorce application which, in the next row, you say can be proposed after three months. So, I have to make the statement and then the question. But any text under public law explains that both access and abandonment of social training are free. Therefore, at a time when you really wanted to affirm the validity of a relationship based on love and affection and mutual solidarity, leaving to the parties, when the relationship broke, the possibility of leaving, it was enough not to frame it in the civil state but in an ad hoc register of civil unions at the registry. Then you could have done something serious, and instead you introduced an act of civil status without touching the articles of the civil code that talk about the taxableness of civil state acts. So you got tangled up and had to resort to separation and divorce, which were not necessary, to dissolve that union where it was not constituted by a civil act of state. And then another gem in paragraph 26 and 27: you know that with the law of sex modification there is a rule that establishes the so-called divorce imposed. The judge decides on the change of the sex of a subject and, at the same time, declares the marriage dissolved. If he forgets, the civilian state officer will automatically cause the marriage to be dissolved. The following paragraph reads: "to the ratification of sex, if the spouses have manifested the will not to dissolve the marriage or not to cease its effects..." Mr. Undersecretary, where did they express this will? They are not parts of the sex identification process, have no incidence, are not required to make a statement. The decision of the Constitutional Court said that it was only necessary to express a will to that effect and therefore a request, an application, was sufficient. Instead you say that it is established automatically, but on the assumption of a will that should be expressed and it is not said where, nor can it be derived from the system. Let us not talk about the general nature of the delegation, the two-year time limit and the possible corrections by the President of the Council of Ministers; let us not forget that. Madam President, on this point I would ask you to speak with your powers. Paragraph 45 says: In the event that membership of a household constitutes a title or cause of preference in the rankings for the allocation of housing in the public housing sector, that title or cause of preference may, on equal terms, be enjoyed by members of the household. Well, I had already foreseen this hypothesis for civil unions; if there were conditions, the contractors of civil unions had to be included in the lists for the assignment of family housing. Do you know, Madam President, that my amendment to Article 3 was rejected by the Budget Committee under Article 81 of the Constitution? So much so that I presented a text 2. However, while my prediction only concerned civil unions, so it concerned a much smaller number of people, for the living together in fact (here we are talking about millions of couples) there was no contrary assessment. Probably, at this point, I have to think that the evaluations of the Budget Commission are based on reading the name of the proposer, depending on whether this belongs to the majority or the opposition. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] I do not have to teach you, Madam President, that the contract is a manifestation of will in order to regulate and extinguish legal relationships. That is why I spoke in my text of a "cohabitation pact"; not because I wanted to be good at finding another term, but because it is not a contract. At most it regulates relations between the parties, in this case, but there is no balance sheet relationship with legal effects. Do you realize that it is a text that has continuous smudges and is contrary to the Constitutional Charter and the norms of the codes? Should we vote on such a text? You know, Madam President, what would you like to do? You would want to leave this House and not vote, but I do not think I will, simply out of respect for the institution. You have put each one of us in a position to leave, because you can't talk and you can't say one thing in an alternative way; when you say it, you say it wrong. Yesterday, Senator Falanga spoke of Article 3 as opposed to what he describes, so much so that I had to read today the judgment of the Court of Cassation. Can you admit that something is wrong and discuss it together? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Conclude, please, Senator Caliendo. I'm done. Madam President, do you know what my anger comes from? Not so much from your will not to dialogue, but exclusively from the fact that you could not contribute to the realization of a real law of guarantee of civil rights in this country, as I hoped to do for thirty years to this side. On the other hand, I must be content with a situation that will not only be Kafkiana, but will reduce the rights that could be achieved, perhaps even less so than in the present situation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u81	Just a clarification of what you said, Senator Caliendo. As you know, the 5th Commission has already spoken on economic matches. Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u82	Madam President, today should have been a very different day, it could have been a festive day, but not just for a community, for a minority, not only for homosexuals, who should have finally seen fundamental civil rights recognized, which had been expected for thirty years; it should have been a festive day for all Italian citizens, because the rights are of everyone. Instead, we are here to dismiss a measure marked by the mark of infamy and transformationism. I'm sorry but I can't find any other terms to define a measure that would have had all the numbers in the Senate to be approved in its entirety, but that instead is approved monco for a mere calculation of short political convenience, certainly linked to the stability of government. (Applause from the right) (The sitting was suspended at 1.51 p.m. and resumed at 1.51 p.m.) The government puts its trust in such an important measure to prevent the Senate from voting on a law that it shares, because the numbers were all there. I will be told that it is legitimate for the majority to do what they want. It is true, but it must not create legitimate expectations and expectations in millions of people, not after Renzi, but also Scalfarotto, also The Judge, even Senator Cirinna declared that the Democratic Party on rights would not look into anyone's face, not after having assured that the Government on this measure should be outside, should not have put its mouth. You have said so, you have declared it a hundred times. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We've seen how the government doesn't say a word about this! You lied knowing you were lying. The result of the majority agreement - as a coincidence, it will be a coincidence - comes right after the nominations that see figures of the New Right Centre in key roles in the institutions. This provision is not only a downward compromise; you have even wanted to humiliate the homosexual community of our country, removing the bond of fidelity. Today there is a strong cry in the country that civil unions are mass-B unions; that a homosexual couple that shares a project of life together is and remains something profoundly different from the ethical point of view from a heterosexual couple, but that shares exactly the same project. In this way feed the creeping homophobia in our country; homophobia from which you yourself of the Democratic Party have been infected by your government allies. You are so ashamed of this measure that you had to come up with, perhaps in order to protect yourself from the vegetable launches of your constituents, that the responsibility is of the 5 Star Movement, because it refused to vote for your amendment scam, unconstitutional and inadmissible, therefore unvotable. It's exactly like the wolf's fairy tale: Zanda drinks upstream of the stream and accuses the lamb of turbidizing the water. In conclusion, despite everything I try to find a vaguely positive aspect in this measure. On February 17, Senator Cirinna stated that if the law had been changed and had become a crap, she would have taken away her signature and left politics. Well, let him do it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , so at least we will have a positive consequence (probably the only one) to the adoption of the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u83	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u84	Mr President, today we record the sad episode of a draft law which was to be the summary of the various proposals filed since the beginning of the parliamentary term. So he was represented. This design, in the wake of the discussions initiated during the previous legislatures, should therefore have represented the solution to a problem never defined, with which several majorities had been confronted, coining the most imaginative formulas (PACS, Di.Do.Re., DICO). In order to bring home this result and reach the approval of the Cyrinna bill, the strategists of the Democratic Party had studied an apparently perfect plan. First of all, the individual parliamentarians would have been given full freedom of conscience; then, if this freedom could have put at risk the final result, with the predictable defections of the so-called catodem, announced but who knows if ever really practiced, and of the neocentrists of the right, the safety of the approval would have taken place with the help of the senators of the 5 Star Movement, signed and reiterated, as we have seen in recent days, in the various SMS in circulation. The plan was or seemed perfect; unfortunately for the Democratic Party and for Renzi this strategy failed before it was even started, for the short circuit - which was predictable in reality - in the relationship with the 5 Star Movement. At this point, the majority, fearing the evidence of the House, started a long meline to try to put together the various pieces. The Premier, who, with one of his proverbial reversals in front of him, announced the maxi amendment and even the vote of confidence. The freedom of conscience, announced initially, was immediately abandoned and the senators of the majority had to understand that the space of their free will had been exhausted and in front there was no other scenario than that of the good soldiers, material executors of orders imposed from above. This is the very prosaic summary of the last few weeks; these are the reasons for the sad end of the much-publicized Cyrinna bill, transfused into the most Byzantine and illegible of the maximendament. In order to achieve this, however, this disturbing precedent has been created, in the same way that the Government, in future, on every draft law of parliamentary initiative, on which there will be no full sharing of the majority, will be able to enter with a tense leg and, without any passage to the Commission and without any amendments adopted perhaps during the course of the procedure in the Commission, to submit a large amendment in order to strangle and annihilate the least parliamentary dialectic. In the case of civil unions, the Government, in order to justify the paternity of the maxi amendment, has even argued that its object was part of a government program, the contents of which, however, none of us in this House has ever known. We have already heard a number of critical comments on the maxi amendment in substance. I would just point out that, first of all, the deletion of Article 5 does not solve the problem of stepchild adoption. This is all the more so in view of the unique statement contained in the last period of paragraph 20. It states literally: "Stay as planned and allowed to adopt the rules in force". In particular, the reflection must be focused on that "allowed." This claim, apparently useless, serves to reaffirm what doctrine and jurisprudence they claim from several parties, namely the usability of Article 44 of Law No.184 of 1983, which allows the adoption of the stepson to be fully adopted. This rule, as we know, designed for widows or widowers with children who then remarried, is today used, according to several judgments cited in this House, also for homosexual couples. So, how do so-called cattodem and NCD colleagues today sing victory? They only record a gray tie in the house. If they had really wanted to avoid the sad phenomenon of the uterus for rent, they would have had to demand an integral rewriting of Article 5, in which a different case should have been foreseen compared to that of Article 44 of the aforementioned law n. 184, which allows those judgments of merit repeatedly recalled, in order to reach more binding and restrictive norms for those who, furbestically, realize the practice of the uterus for rent. But this was not the case and, therefore, for cattodem and NCD there is a full defeat. This result is even more negative if reference is made to the whole part of the maxi amendment in which civil unions are fully equated with marriage. The status of spouse, to the outcome of the maxi amendment, is now completely similar to that of the parts of civil unions. This, therefore, is Renzi's masterpiece; this is the Caporetto of the Catholic senators of the majority. It remains for us, that from the first moment we had opposed the approval of the bill Cirinna in its ambiguous and confused drafting, the satisfaction that the political result captured today by the Premier and his associates is very little where we consider that, after the vote of confidence, the Left of the PD will continue to be frustrated; the homosexual associations will remain dissatisfied with all the promises they had received in recent months and the more moderate Catholics will understand the yet another trap ordained by Renzi. We, who are fasted on all these tactics, will continue to support our aversion to this maxi amendment and our full distance from this biecical way of making politics in the parliamentary classrooms. [[Applause from the CoR Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u85	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u86	Mr President, this debate has highlighted that difficult and often conflicting relationship - but in my opinion very corresponding - between politics and society. Society, in fact, is not something outside politics: those who come to politics, those who decide to bring their voice and to represent democracy, are part of that society. The debate we have witnessed in this House has been the subject of so much participation by the citizens, so much so that we have all received - I imagine - rivers of mail in favour of or against the Cirinna bill, demonstrating that perhaps the clarity, the path and the social evolution with respect to these terms were not yet fully completed. In this, perhaps, it is precisely the logic of compromise, even a political one, which notes that perhaps that clarity that had been given for certain at the beginning then in fact was not there. It is very easy, in fact, to flag certainties without the awareness of what is behind them, of what is being said. It is also important, in my opinion, to start with rights, that they are something different from desires. Shopenhauer said that happiness is liberation from desires, from nooluntas, because we in our desires project this infinite will of realization, but we are in fact then frustrated in the face of the awareness that we are finite and limited beings. So, what does politics have to do? He must interpret society, have vision, but where something in society is not there, he cannot invent. Politics must solve the problems that society presents. When he listens and responds to these problems he performs his function in the most ethical and correct way; when instead he listens to himself, when he makes fun of himself, when he becomes self-referential, politics does not do its duty, does not listen to the people consistently. To address the issue of adoptions aside, which will be discussed in a forthcoming bill, in my opinion, is a fair way to go. We must start with rights, which must always be safeguarded and have only one limit: the limit, in the defence of a right, is the conflict with the rights of others, a bit like freedom. In this parliamentary debate, a lesson was also given to the 5 Star Movement, which once again proved to be contradictory, confused and politically irrelevant, because it does not stand the defence of coherence with respect to the premissive amendment, when the Toninelli amendment on Italicum was mentioned. You don't understand, therefore, because a premissive amendment is fine if the 5 Star Movement presents it and it's not okay if someone else presents it. They have shown that they do not know the difference between theory, concreteness, and practice. If they wanted to respond, if they were so convinced, they would have to listen to those who, like Senator Airola, had followed the provision carefully and had committed themselves, but in fact an order came from above, which forced everyone to review and give two or three versions of things, proving in fact unreliable. They even gave way to explain what had happened in the Senate and the dynamics between Senator Cirinna, Senator Airola and others, to a person who never even set foot in this Senate. This is the contradiction of the 5 Stars and I am happy to place myself in the most distant way and in contrast to my former colleagues, who talk about method and do not have it, who talk about democracy and transparency and do not even have it within themselves, who talk about rules that do not respect and use to the necessity, according to the circumstances, the needs and the comforts, that make rhetoric and say that we are the last in Europe, that have already understood everything, but that they do not propose anything different. There are unresolved disputes, psycholable conflicts, even fueled by limited situations. You even got to expel an activist, boyfriend and partner of a senator, and force the senator to be even more Taliban. They are psycholable, misfit situations, as Grillo often appeals to them and apostrophes them jokingly, but, as they say, "joking is telling the truth." So, no consistency, no reliability. You can't say once you want to be present to discuss at the tables and the time after laughing at your interlocutors, then change your mind again and say that you want to discuss. Once you want to sit at the table and once you don't want to sit. This is how we play and do not respect a mandate: the 5 Star Movement should understand that it is not here to play games or to manage situations of power, but to respond to citizens who have so many problems and wait from politics at least coherence and maturity, what they do not have and will not have for a long time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calderoli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u87	Mr President, I must begin by expressing my perplexity and amazement at the situation in which we are discussing a draft law, which was described and defined as the turning point of life and on which, among other things, the government comes to put its trust. All colleagues will, of course, return to the Chamber to be seen on live television. Too bad that we are 25 people in this House at the moment - it is good that those who have the courage to listen to the Senate debate at the moment of digestion are aware of this - and among these there is a large minority. Since the majority is the one who expresses confidence, let's also say the specific numbers of this majority. Let's start with the present members of the newly hired component, namely the AL-A Group, which are zero. There's no one in this group. The political forces of the autonomy are present with a representative and are therefore widely represented with respect to the Groups that count zero presences. The PD is present in mass, because we have seven people, plus the Undersecretary Pizzetti. Of the New Right Center, which has made civil unions the battle of life, there is absolutely no one. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senator Quagliariello.]] Dear Angelino, from now on I will call you dear devil, because there are neither you nor any of your colleagues. There is, honestly, a lack of the aspiring rapporteur for the measure; there is no President of the Commission who should have been there, and I do not know whether there is any deputy or any spare wheel, or what he wants to call it. However, Madam President, what I have seen today, reading the newspapers, has seemed to me to be a different film than what has been seen in recent days. I don't mean, because the argument doesn't allow me, that we went from a red-light movie to "Via col vento" with Alfano and Renzi doing Rossella O'Hara and the butler choreographer; But today I read in the newspapers that Renzi won and Alfano won, and here things don't come back to me. There's something that doesn't add up, because I was convinced that Renzi, or at least his party, was in favour of the Cirinna law and, in particular, I felt government representatives, even the undersecretary Pizzetti on Sunday, say: he will never give up stepchild adoption. But they won. Alfano was completely opposed and he also won. I think they've lost both of them in general, because, anyway, look at it, I should use a vulgar expression to define the result that determined this law: a result that usually one sees in the bathroom before pressing the button. Unfortunately that's the final result they got. I say this because I came to this House trying to understand, as a non-jurist, whether we were talking about civil unions or gay marriage. I asked five simple questions: how is civil union done? Same procedure as civil marriage. How does it melt? Same procedure as civil marriage. What are the preventative causes? The same as civil marriage. What are the successor or social security rights? The same as civil marriage. Rights and duties? The spouse's or better synonyms, then the wife and husband. So, when I saw Alfano's happiness and I saw him toasting to the fact that there was an amendment that fixed all things, I was anxious to read how Senator Cirinna's text had been overturned. Everything changed: instead of the articles they put Article 1 and then all the various paragraphs. Then marriage as you do it, as you disassemble it, the preventative causes and everything else are exactly the same as before, including the fact that you talk about spouse and similar terms, so we're talking about wife and husband. Then who will do it with the two I don't know, because that doesn't say. But they achieved a great result: they removed the reference to fidelity. And that's where I think they made one of the usual ones. I am absolutely convinced that fidelity does not depend on the fact that it is written on a law: it depends on loyalty, on feelings, and it even seems to me that it is put inside a marriage. However, it seems wrong to have taken away the word "faithfulness". There's everything else, as if to say: I give birth to homosexual marriage (because, when they vote for trust, Alfano "and company " will make the homosexual marriage pass), but I have to take away his loyalty, so I have to make it look like something dirty, a branding, something that is not right. I am against civil unions and I will vote against them, because they should never have been born for me. But if you have to give birth to them, voting them (because you take responsibility for them saying yes), at least not leaving by putting around some stains that probably didn't deserve. But they brought home the abolition of stepchild adoption. And I feel worse there, because the patch is really worse than the hole. Because if the New Right Centre gentlemen had not agreed to vote with confidence on that amendment, we would be voting here at the moment and certainly through the secret vote we would have abolished that institution and would have allowed us to introduce the definition that children should be a man and a woman, and not something different. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] They keep us from doing that, too. I used to read an agency where, as usual, Alfano exults. So I read what a well-known jurist says: With the maxi amendment of the Government, if today approved, a new legal institution is introduced in Italy that possesses much of the contents of the marriages and marriages and that also generates towards the same-sex unions that normative favor that to date the Constitution had reserved only for the family founded on marriage between people of different sex. This is stated by the jurist Alberto Gambino, ordinary of civil law of the Department of Human Sciences of the European University of Rome. In other words, the logic of solidarity and mutual trust is abandoned - explains Gambino - on which the jurisprudence had founded the protection of non-marital cohabitations and it establishes, on the legal level, an agreement regime with strong advertising accents that makes the new institute very similar in the procedure and in the contents to what is provided by the civil code for those who want to marry. At this point, it will be interesting to verify the judgment given first by the Head of State, in the context of his right to refer to the Chambers in the case of manifest inconstitutionality, and then the Constitutional Court. This means that they brought back from the window what had come out of the door and prevented us, with their behavior and flattening on Renzi, from being able to enter the substance and, in a right or wrong way, voting one in one way and one in the other, from deciding who had the ownership of being able to adopt the children. If Alfano doesn't laugh, surely even more reasons not to laugh must have Renzi, because first the Government said he was part three - it seemed more than right - then Scalfarotto began to claim that the stepchild adoption was indispensable; then Pizzetti arrived; then, we came to present an amendment entirely substitute on which to ask for trust, so, he put us in just both feet. Before Renzi spoke in roboating tones saying that the bill would never be done without adoptions and today, instead, adoptions have been removed. Frankly, I feel like I'm seeing another movie or someone who leads on a bad road. I tell Catholic friends first of all. I recall the words of Bergoglio, even if challenged, and of the secretary of the CEI. This time the vote will be clear. I was convinced that, in the secret of the urn, God sees you and Zanda and Renzi did not and something could come out. This time they'll let you through there. Everyone who says "yes" is going to hell today. There are no saints. For tabulas. Renzi will probably end up in hell, not only as a Catholic. For him it is only a matter of time because you know that in Dante's hell there was a group for each type. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're just recording the votes here. These are judgments referred to other locations. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). The good Saint Peter will also go to see in the records of the electronic vote or what will be recorded by his authoritative Presidency. What is certain is that, if he has not yet gone to hell, it is not because he does not deserve it, but because the Dante group is there for the lustful, for the greedy, but they do not have one for the one who has committed all sins. You have to dig a hole so deep to put it there, that even, in the end, so many sins make a satanasso. He will compete with Lucifer in the placement of the scale of values in hell, but it will be above all a political hell, because today a very particular thing is happening. Trust will bring her home, but the problem is she'll bring too much. In fact, there will also be the votes of AL-A's colleagues, who are consistent with their positions. Yesterday I read an agency about the meeting of the AL-A Group where Barani said that they would certainly vote against because they are in opposition. Today, however, they are voting in favour of trust. It had already been seen along the way that they were approaching. There is a problem: if among those 161 and beyond votes that will take, the AL-A will be decisive, because there will be some of the New Right Center who will not have the courage to express trust, the political majority of government changes. At that point, the good Mattarella will also have to open his eyes; he will have to verify and call Mr. Renzi, noting that the majority has changed: it has expanded or, indeed, it has replaced. The fact that last week his friend Verdini had gone to Colle may have been prodromic to the constitution of this majority. But it is clear that a new majority of governments must return to Parliament with its own programme and with a parliament that votes for it. The day on which we vote will be clear: there is neither the PD, nor the left, nor Parliament, but perhaps the opposition. At this point, I remind everyone that until a week ago those in the sight and contested were the undersigned, Giovanardi, rather than Gasparri and others. Yesterday, at the demonstration held in Piazza delle Cinque Lune, the rapporteur of the measure, Renzi, the PD, were the ones who were supposed to support the measure and who, in fact, killed him today. It comes out in a way, in fact, but it comes out completely crooked. I am convinced that at the end of the fair the citizens got tired of being mocked by this government and, in the end, they will know how to remind you of these things. Everyone arrives on the day of judgment. In October there will be a referendum and, since Renzi has turned it into a plebiscite on itself, people will remember all those who have pissed off in these months. You can fool a lot for a short time or a few for a long time, but not so many for a long time. At this point, citizens will realize that all the different types of reform that have taken place have achieved the almost opposite result to the one for which they were born. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We do the spending review, and we also boast about it, as Renzi did on Sunday, and public spending goes up. Something's not right. We do jobs act and he says that jobs have increased indefinitely. Try to look at how many VAT matches they used to make bills to cover false hirings, and then the accounts won't be positive for sure. We made the electoral law, and it is said that we can finally govern. Yesterday the court of Messina sent it to the Constitutional Court, which will probably decide before the examination on the basis of the constitutional reform. Everyone had to believe that we were okay and that we finally left. But do you realize that people around are getting caught up in the bottoms? We have been discussing this measure in the Commission for two and a half years and Parliament has been blocked for two months. But did anyone realize that since January we have lost 30% of the value of securities on the Stock Exchange? Is anyone aware that Europe is crumbling under our feet? I may be happy, but that's what's happening. Do you realize that they are announcing a wave of invasion for 2016 never seen and that at risk there is not only our identity, but also our institutional structures that risk to collapse, that the banking system is falling apart? For heaven's sake, I don't care about banks, but the person who suffers is the normal citizen, the worker, the pensioner and all those who have worked in life and who see their certainty and their serenity fail. And we're here to discuss the loyalty of gay couples? Please, he would have said the good Totò, because we are absolutely no longer there. We also used this time a weapon of mass distraction. I hope you have finished these pantomimes, playing with laws that risk being dangerous. Yesterday I appealed to President Grasso, obviously speaking of the inadmissibility and inadmissibility of the text entirely a substitute presented by the Government, of a text that had never existed because it was a parliamentary initiative. I am convinced that, in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 87 of the Constitution, without the signature of the President of the Republic, that text could not be declared admissible. President Grasso gave me a learned and articulate answer. I expected that, but in the end, if you read it well today, that answer is right to me and not to the Presidency which declared the text admissible. There is a series of references to precedents, which really exist and which I also know. Too bad, though, that they didn't put together the two conditions that I had placed. I have said that there is no precedent for a text going to the House without a rapporteur who has not already been approved by the other branch of Parliament and to whom an amendment entirely replacing the Government is tabled in the absence of an original text, because the Cirinna text has not been voted by the House. He came to us from the group leader, as if the group leader could do anything. At the end of his speech, the President said that the text would be forwarded to the Budget Committee for the evaluation of the profiles referred to in Article 81 of the Constitution, i.e. the balance between revenue and expenditure. Mr President, it is true that Article 81 exists, but there is also Article 72 of the Constitution; yet no one asks for the Commission to verify constitutionality (of course, the majority would have passed the measure anyway). One thing is certain: it is unconstitutional. If I said so, it wasn't because I expected the President to reject the government's amendment. Never before, the government comes first. I wanted to speak to my daughter-in-law to let my mother-in-law know. At a time when - and this was also taken up by my colleague Mr Quagliariello - twice it is in the acts that that text was inadmissible, the President of the Republic must think about it before signing the law because, if it were to do so, at this point it would become an attack on the Constitution: with a few words in mind. There is already an appeal brought by more than 30 senators and I think there is a lot of material to discuss this measure which, however it goes, will end badly. Mr President, I should like to end by quoting Leonardo Sciascia, from the book "Il giorno della civetta" (The day of the owl), which you certainly know: "I," Father Mariano continued, "have a certain practice of the world. It is what we say humanity, and we fill our mouths to say humanity; a beautiful word full of wind, I divide it into five categories: men, half men, ominics, (respectfully speaking) "pigliain..." (beep of television) "and quaquaraquà." Very few men; the half few men, whom I would content humanity, would stop at half men. But no, it goes down even further, to the ominches, which are like children who think they are big, monkeys who make the same moves as the big ones (every reference to President Renzi is purely random). And even further down: the And finally the quaquaraquà: that they should live like ducks in puddles, because their life no longer makes sense and more expression than that of ducks. Here we really ended up on the old farm. We started from kangaroos; today I heard of ostrich from Mr Candiani; I have a nice group of chickens next to me, because if anyone votes in favour of the measure we also have chickens. We also put a nice pond in the future federal senate to water ducks. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u88	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u89	Mr President, I believe that at this point in the debate we must go to the essence. As far as I am concerned, I will say the three essential reasons why I will vote against confidence and would in any case have been against this major amendment. Mr President, the first is a point of method: we have witnessed a real obstruction of the government. The behaviour of the Government has only one common denominator: to prevent this branch of Parliament from voting. The measure under consideration, which is considered a fundamental step in the history of this country and of Italian society, will pass without a vote in the Commission, without a vote in the Assembly and with an incredible intervention by the Government. The Commission did not want to vote. The measure has been scheduled in this House and four months have passed. In order to prevent the House from voting, a premissive amendment was invented for the sole purpose of bringing down all the other amendments. At the time when this amendment was declared unlawful, the Government changed to a large amendment. So the government kept itself safe as long as it was possible, then came out in the open. Mr President, we are talking about a law that concerns fundamental rights. We are talking about a law that deals with principles. The principles are called that and they are said to be such because they come to the beginning, because they are at the origin, otherwise they would not be principles. To think that we can put the question of trust in such a law is an ethical behavior, not even an authoritarian regime would have imagined it. Anyone with a minimum notion of what liberal democracy is and what Parliament's history is would not even have imagined the possibility of a vote of confidence. We will pass under that stand to vote on the principles and unfortunate colleagues of the majority, regardless of their conscience, will be forced to say yes because the Government asks them to do so. This is the page of parliamentary incivility, of liberal incivility that we will write this evening. I'd like someone to have a little resistance. These things have not even been imagined by the theorists of the authoritarian state. This is therefore the first reason: this law should have been voted on with an open face, with the distant government, without Group obligations and every Member of Parliament should have been confronted solely with his own conscience. That is what we do in a liberal Parliament. The second reason is of substance and concerns the agreement that has been concluded, the compromise that has been made. You see, Mr President, a law dealing with principles must find people who can say these principles with an open face. Doing so is also a way to respect those of your opponents who are objectively different. As far as I am concerned, the principles that I believe are insuperable are primarily related to parenting. I don't think it's a right to be a parent; I don't believe it. I don't think you can turn desire into a right. I believe that there is a right, instead, of the child to have a father and a mother and above all a right to identity: to know who he was born from. These are the rights and principles for which I have fought, respecting those who have different principles on these issues. Now, in order to defend these rights and to recognize civil unions at the same time, it was necessary to do one simple thing: not to foresee the fact that there was a civil union for homosexuals and instead the contract for heterosexuals but to provide for the protection of the rights of all the affectivity that is located outside marriage, without distinguishing on the basis of sexual intercourse because the State has only one interest in considering what is the sexual relationship between two persons and it is that linked to the recognition of the marriage bond because it has interest that from marriage can derive children who are objectively a social resource. It is on this point that colleagues in the New Right Centre should have sought agreement because until there is agreement on this issue there is no guarantee that the other principles to which I have referred will be protected. Let me give you a biographical reference. I began to be unable to do more than my previous profession at the university when, rather than research, there was talk of roles and divided into ordinary, associate, researchers, etc. Everything I could think of, except that a law of the State transformed Italian society into a faculty council. After voting on this amendment, we will have the ordinarys (the married persons of different sex), the associates (the people who make a civil union), the contractists (the heterosexuals who cannot make a civil union) and finally the lovers of the subject (who are the freest but, Mr President, also economically the most losers). I believe that all this has nothing to do with secularism and that it does not allow us to say that the basic principles which I have defended are safe. Why, Mr President, does it not allow us to say that the basic principles relating to parenthood are safe? Not just because President Zanda says they made an agreement and put aside stepchild adoptions, and then submit an ad hoc bill that will be examined with a preferential lane. In short, President Zanda says that they have not been able to make the permanent revolution; they are therefore converted to gramscism and will conquer the sun of the future housemate after madhouse. Of course, Gramsci is better than Troszky; but what was wrong there was the final goal and it seems to me dear PD colleagues that you are wrong again. But it is not just that, Mr President. The main problem is another one and many know it. The problem is that there is a European case law that leaves no room for doubt. European jurisprudence clearly states that, if an institution is built as a marriage, all the rights of marriage, including adoptions, apply to that institution. So the real problem is that, in seven or eight months' time, ladies and gentlemen of the New Right Centre, we will find ourselves in a Strasbourg judgment which, just as it happened in Germany, will say that even in Italy the civil union, built as a similar marriage and for this only reserved for homosexuals, will admit the possibility of adoption. At that point, the battle on principles will be totally lost. Reasons for method, reasons relating to the principles and reasons relating to what is more than predictable, what is certain, Mr President, tell us that this is not an agreement. This is a scam and scams are said not. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u90	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u91	Mr President, my objective was to be able to speak in an absolutely empty Chamber. I have not succeeded; I am content to speak in a half-empty Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u92	He just missed the target. However, I would ask colleagues not to go along with Senator Buemi's wishes; his was a paradox. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). However, I have to say that Mr Calderoli's enthusiastic catastrophic intervention leads me to address the issues of merit immediately, even if there is a need to extend the assessments. I say to Mr Cappelletti that we Socialists are absolutely convinced that this is a good measure. This is because every time in our country - but also in general - we approve measures that extend the area of citizens' rights, we can only agree. Moreover, as reformists and gradualists, since the objectives are too high we are concerned (and something should teach us this too), we say that today we strongly approve this measure, because it applies the Constitution of our country, that is, it realizes the right of equality among citizens, regardless of their sexual orientation. And I don't think that's any small thing. We certainly have the will to approve this measure. The question of trust has been raised and I have to say out of the teeth that we have and we have some reservations about the method. However, while we have reservations about the method, we cannot deny it because this Government addresses important issues for the interests of our country and this is one of those that fills a regulatory vacuum, which we have been waiting for years to do. However, we must say, ladies and gentlemen, that the responsibility for the method lies not only with the Government. First of all, it is the oppositions that have put an avalanche of amendments and speeches in the Commission to the attention of this House, and Mr Caliendo knows very well that there has been a week-long obstruction of this issue. There have also been amendments in this House that lead us to accept a method on which we display these reservations. We support the need to recognise rights to all couples, regardless of their sexual orientation, and I must say that the deletion of the case concerning adoptions, although from the point of view of the excursus of this law makes us point out some of our criticisms, from the point of view of legislative technique we can only agree, because we are absolutely of the opinion that this problem must be addressed in general terms also by examining the issue of the adoption of double homosexuals and singles, heterosexuals or homosexuals. In fact, the right to the protection of the child cannot go through predefined schemes: the judiciary, as it is doing in these times, rightly evaluates the concrete situation in fact and chooses the best of the children, who must be protected as a priority. The reform of adoptions, ladies and gentlemen, must also address the issue of timing for couples, whether homosexual or heterosexual. Recognizing equal rights from this point of view is a fundamental and strategic element. In conclusion, having given up some of the time just to arrive quickly at the adoption of the bill under consideration at least by this branch of Parliament and hoping for its rapid approval by the other House, I announce the legislative initiative of the socialist senators who intend to put to the attention of the Senate a reform of the law on adoptions that also includes those related to adoptions by homosexual couples and single, heterosexual or homosexual.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u93	[[Applause from Senator Valdinosis.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u94	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u95	Mr President, we have come to the culmination of a very sad affair. We had set off in great magnanimity, waving an epic passage to modernise the country, to enter Europe thanks to a law that would finally recognize the rights of homosexual couples. (14.46) (Followed by PETRAGLIA). We didn't even get to the border. We stopped at the gates of Rome. In the wake of the best Italian tradition, the harsh cultural confrontation first turned into a comedy and finally a farce. We have denounced from the beginning that the Cirinna text had many limits, a text to the bottom that was held only for stepchild adoption. But we would have voted for it. We have seen alleged tables, meetings, numbers, and what has been the result? Chaos! No transparency, this is the most serious mistake. This whole affair has been handled as a personal affair of some. You claimed that it was finally a parliamentary legislative initiative but many, too many, you were rooting for trust, to the point that some political force even asked for it as proof to the Government of firm conviction. What do those MPs in the PD now declare that they have declared and motivated these days, even with the reference to the Regulations, that there could never have been trust? It would be interesting to know their opinion. It was already written, other than kangaroos and thousands of amendments. You have never really thought of getting the Senate Assembly to work, because the risk and fear that the law might even have the numbers to be improved in so many ways was too strong; a risk that you cannot run for a party whose secretary always does not make a mystery of being against egalitarian marriage. We are convinced that a majority with us in this House, a part of the PD and the Five Stars could have passed a better and more advanced law, transparently, without tricks or cover-ups of secret voting, each assuming its own responsibilities. There would be no more alibi; now there are no more kangaroos (but - ahinoi - too late the speech of the President of the Senate). Of course, voting on the kangaroo would have been a tough choice for us too: we are well aware of its unconstitutionality, total violence and the dangerous precedent. But here was the question of the recognition and extension of rights, just as important; a political battle that for some of us, perhaps too few, is a piece of our political history and we would not have been stopped by tactics, palace games, the role of opposition, the wars of polls. Putting trust is a serious mistake, but you dropped the mask. You don't care about the rights of homosexuals, lesbians, transsexuals; it's just a banner for you to expose to the country for an electoral return: shame! But trust, you know, takes a lot of chestnuts out of the fire, both at PD and at the 5 Star Movement. The two parties challenged each other to a duel against the citizens, touching the lowest point with the publication of those texts. This is the end of politics as a confrontation for public affairs. You have only acted as researchers of consensus, based on the surveys, the pressures of the Church and the strong powers, and you have sacrificed Parliament. This is not the first time for the Pd, and it is in full coherence with the autocratic constitutional reform that it proposes to the country. But we never imagined we'd see the same choices made at the Five Star Movement. In pursuit of surveys - and not just those of the network - you have proved to be the best friends of conservation, one speculator to the other. Your cynicism to gain consensus is frightening as well as dangerous. But to take advantage of it most of all are Alfano and the Cattodems, who bring home the result of having upset and emptied the text avoiding that it could constitute a particular and transversal majority in the Senate. Wasn't much of the majority concerned about this strange transversality? Not for the support of the government (which is out of the question), but for the risk that this would have meant in future work: it would have meant being able to talk about end of life, legalization of cannabis, citizenship rights. This story confirms that Renzi the only mediation has chosen to make it with the center-right and with the CEI; yet another blow, once again, to the secular State, forgetting that secularism is protection for everyone, believers and non-believers. Today Renzi downloads the responsibility for his own inability and the choice not to modernise the country on his opponents, in a way not very different from the "not let us govern" of Berlusconian memory, or of "numbers in Parliament" do not allow something better, "if it was for me... "at least this is something, a beginning." No, we've already said that, and we confirm it. Unfortunately this is not the first step, this will be the only step. There will be no other laws, at least in this legislature, because it is clear what the Government and its President think: no egalitarian marriages. This is confirmed by the text, for example, where it is said that if one of the spouses changes sex, marriage becomes a civil union. Let's not make fun of each other, then. This is a retrograde and obscurantist government; at least spare us the rhetoric of the better this than nothing, because this is nothing. And please stop saying that soon there will be the adoption law. We have all heard today how many bills will be deposited. I would like to remind you once again that a few months ago you rejected an amendment which allowed it. At least do not continue to deceive and deceive; a bit like you are doing with the homophobia law: for two years it has been firm, while gay, lesbian and trans continue to be insulted and humiliated, as we have unfortunately heard even in this House these days. Perhaps if the law had been passed it would not have been possible. Dear Renzi, to change the country it is necessary to make clear choices, to displease someone, to choose which side to be on. Today is not a great day; yours is just a facade operation to show voters, but without affecting the real cultural and economic ganglia. It's cat paddling 2.0, I'd say, the turnaround's good. There is little to exult, only deep bitterness. We have all forgotten that stepchild adoption is needed to guarantee full rights to children, to children who, in words, all want to protect so much. Then, however, you decided to entrust this task only to judges, a bit like Pontius Pilate, and - let me also say - that you have gone beyond the ridiculous by removing the principle of fidelity from the text in order to avoid that jurisprudential interpretations could equalize civil unions to marriage, forgetting that we are in 2016 and that moral and material assistance is as strong as the bond of fidelity: a subtle cultural operation. The message is clear: those who are not faithful are not families, but here too you have forgotten a fundamental point, because this axiom risks sweeping away so many heterosexual families. You will not save your conscience with the bill just announced by some PD senators to remove the bond of fidelity also from Article 143 of the Civil Code. However, we are waiting not only to see its immediate calendarization, but also to see its immediate approval. In these days we have become the laughingstock in Europe, and in particular you in this country, because in this tragic event you have made so many laughs; a bitter rice, unfortunately. Finally, I would particularly like to address all those with whom we have worked in recent months, all those who are talking about a vote strike in these hours. I would like to say that this would be a very serious mistake. Today the composition of Parliament is the responsibility of the Italian citizens who have chosen their representatives by their vote. Proposing the strike means giving up the choice, it means strengthening the wrong choices; it means always making them win. On the other hand, we must know that there is always an alternative and that a right is never renounced. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u96	He's enlisted to speak Senator Azzollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u97	Madam President, the large amendment - on which the Government has put its trust - that the Senate is preparing to vote is, in my opinion, a good text in the given conditions. The mediation achieved, especially thanks to the intervention of the moderates in Parliament and in the country, and in this case of the Parliamentary Group of the New Right Centre and its president, Senator Schifani, is certainly a good result. I am particularly convinced by three elements. The first, because it shifts the constitutional regulatory framework from Articles 29 and 31, which apply to the family and its rights; then Articles 2 and 3, which apply to the inviolable rights of man and to the equal social dignity of all citizens, have been recalled. I believe that this constitutional regulatory environment is consistent with the principles that I express and that we express, namely, the need to protect the inviolable rights of man and to recognize the equal social dignity of the same, but this does not mean that civil union is a substitute for the family. That is my opinion and, in this respect, I believe that this regulatory environment is a positive result. Equally important is the question of fidelity, which is a specific feature of marriage, but above all I am convinced of the deletion of Article 5, concerning adoptions and, consequently, a practice that is radically adverse, which is that of the so-called womb for rent. It is a very serious practice in my opinion, which can lead to unspeakable consequences of gravity, from social ones - such as the possibility of those who are wealthy to have to pay sums for the practice of the uterus in rent - but I think above all of the rupture, which would be in my opinion exificial for society, of that natural relationship, both umbilical and with absolutely distinctive characters, between those who have a creature in their womb, who gives birth and who keeps it, raises it and educates it. That between the mother and the son is a relationship, which constitutes an archetype of human nature, which incredibly could be violated. I am opposed to this possibility, and the fact that I have made this point is certainly a very positive result from my point of view. These are the three basic questions that convince me of the good compromise that has been reached. Of course there are those who have even more radical positions on this issue, but I think that, in the situation given, the contemplation between the inviolable rights of man, his equal social dignity and the particular nature of the relationship between a man and a woman, is a very acceptable compromise. In my opinion, that is, the two concepts - to which I believe I must attribute an almost founded nature of natural law, values, ideals and, for believers, of faith - which are those of motherhood and fatherhood, remain safeguarded. They are two archetypes, which come from Greek-Latin culture and from Judaic-Christian culture. These are two archetypes that I believe must be preserved, because a child also has a punctual identity, precise reference points, which help the spiritual, cultural and personal formation of the child. Keeping these two concepts is important to me and we must continue to safeguard them. I am told that somewhere there is talk of one parent and two parents: I disagree. On the contrary, we must safeguard motherhood and fatherhood, which for characteristics, emotions, affections and social functions are distinct and different and this diversity must be maintained. On the other hand, it is nature that needs man and woman. For those who are believers like me or even for those who are not believers, but who are focused on values, precisely these values come to us from the fundamental axes of our culture, which are constituted by the Jewish-Christian culture and the classical Greek-Latin culture. But traveling around the world I see - that is why it is natural - that the relationship between mother and son and father is perceived in the same way, in all cultures and in all ideals. I therefore believe that this is enough for them to be retained as a great factor in the free and balanced formation of the child. That is the point I am in favour of. At this point the government is introduced, which, with a gesture not shared by me, puts confidence on these issues. I fully understand that it was a necessary choice, but it was required by a deeply obnoxious attitude of the Government, in particular of the PD. Until last week, he was convinced he had to marry a certain political axis. Then he no longer finds himself in that political axis, so he chooses another one. And luckily, I say, and thanks to the work of the moderates, he chooses this text which, as I said, I agree with on the subject. I wonder, then, why, just as that previous political operation had been attempted by the ordinary means of politics, was it not attempted by the same ordinary means as politics a relationship with such vast forces that they could nevertheless have brought home a text that was consistent with this? No, at that point it was said: immediately. Of course, I cannot but say that an intervention, I would say in such football terms, which is tense about the parliamentary debate is not a spectacle of the best. That is to say, it responds to a sort of obnoxious situation in the Government by means of a trustworthy amendment, without retrying an operation as political as it would have been in Parliament, in my opinion, a majority perhaps wider than that of the previous political operation; perhaps with the necessary filings, but with some time longer. But, as they have said, perhaps it would have been necessary, and perhaps useful, instead you choose to act in this way. All this puts one like me in front of a necessary choice. I thankfully recall a situation that already exists, unfortunately not in this House. Because, as you know, in the House of Deputies the vote of confidence in the Government is split by the vote of merit of the law. So you can well vote on a law and not vote on trust, or vice versa. Here it is not possible and then voting for me today in favour of trust and the government is a technical choice to vote on this law, which seems to me a compromise that must be defended immediately, precisely because I want to prevent that ondivide move of the Government, and in particular of the PD, from repeating itself to worse results. A difficult choice and one that naturally deepens the relationship of trust with this Government for the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u98	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u99	Madam President, I rise to explain why I do not want to take part in the vote of confidence. Last night, Minister Orlando, responding to a television journalist, spoke of a nuke law. I answered the same question by saying that it is a serious dungeon, because it does not follow first of all what was the primary programme and the Democratic Party's electoral programme, which also spoke of adoptions for gay couples, and also because, even when the Cyrinna bill was presented in this House, it was, as I said in my speech of 3 February this year to which I refer, a compromise, the third or perhaps the fourth to the bottom. And already then I said that frankly it would not be possible to vote less than this proposal. I am convinced that we could and can make a good comprehensive law, guaranteeing the rights of all without any distinction of sex or anything else simply by applying and updating Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution. On 3 February last I spoke of an existing status of constitutional illegality proclaimed and repeated in relation to (...) people united by at least affection and towards children that someone, with extreme contempt for the sense of humanity (...), still does not want to protect in full. They would like to perpetuate an institutional vacuum, a permanent state of non-equality and non-solidarity. The solution that is proposed with the maxi amendment does not convince me first of all on matters of substance and content. Secondly, I consider it a mistake or, better, an aberration to have imposed trust on ethical issues. I recall that the same Rules of Procedure of the Senate and also that of the Group of the Democratic Party guarantee independent, independent and conscientious votes on ethical issues. Putting a vote of confidence, in addition to all other procedural issues, on this matter frankly seems to me an aberration. I also say why I do not vote against: in any case, in my opinion, there has been a positive step. The fact that we have laid down rules for civil unions and cohabitations is certainly a positive step. Not surprisingly, by the way, this positive step is not good for the usual trombones, which we know well, of the new inquisition. I believe that, on my part, there can be this position of not participating in the vote simply because there are these rules that, in their imperfection, from a technical point of view, will allow the ordinary and constitutional judiciary to intervene in order to guarantee the rights of all. I will not vote because I do not agree with the solution that has been proposed either technically, politically or constitutionally. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bernini, Caliendo and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u100	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u101	Madam President, do you know who first gave the news of the agreement on the text of the maxi amendment on trust? No? Yesterday, the first to announce to journalists the agreement on the text of trust between the NCD and the Democratic Party was the Vatican City Secretary of State. Strange country, isn't it? That's very special. It is a country in which, instead, to vote a law on sensitive issues and civil rights in Parliament, when it is possible to do so, it is imposed by the Executive, a government made by racists and sold. It is a terrifying country in which one tries to unload the blame of these villains on an opposition force that for two years, gentlemen, has supported this law; it has defended it in the Commission and has been decisive in bringing it to the Chamber and that, now, from point to point of view, according to your surreal theorem, would affect it only to make a disrespect to the PD. Dozens of activists, spokesperson, programs and three years spent intensely working, comparisons and contacts with associations and citizens on LGBT issues would have been reset to spite the Democratic Party? Do you really believe that? You wanted to vote for something unconstitutional called kangaroo? By the way, it is a problem that has been overcome and declared inadmissible and, therefore, please forget it. He never existed; it's as if he never really existed. For a personal SMS of the undersigned, transformed into a Treaty of Versailles, the 5 Star Movement is defined as the cause of the failure of this bill. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now it's my turn to explain a couple of things about this. Dear colleagues, I begin with some indiscretion. Last Friday, February 19, after the release of the news from Palazzo Madama about the rejection of the kangaroo, "Il Fatto Quotidiano" reports that the first to call was precisely the leader of the PD, Luigi Zanda, to ask Fat: "So, do you bounce everything?." President Grasso explained the logic of his operation. Be careful: 'Parliament is meant to debate; we cannot reset the debate. I'll keep secret vows to a minimum. The problem of ambush does not exist. That has been said. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Just think, at that point you could almost unplugg a bottle. I was ready. From Monday afternoon we could vote the law in Parliament with 500 clear votes and with all the lights lit on the billboards, on the benches, cards uncovered, without tricks, deceptions and betrayals. Voilà, all in the light of day; only five secret vows are expected. Last night Schifani told Vespa that there were hundreds of secret vows, traps and risks of all kinds: lies, lies. Five secret vows are no problem. The numbers have always been there. If you are afraid of five secret votes, stay at home and do not come to this House to warm up your seats! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Other tales about practicability and Bible times feared by the PD have been denied directly by Senate officials. To the officials! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Other bullshit: we heard seriously enunciate in early Saturday evening in Fazio's broadcast that the kangaroo was a formality, a superfluous sign of punctuation, and that we were crazy not to vote for it. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this has not helped at all to explain to the citizens a basic fact, which confirmed the second office of the State, not any one, namely that that kangaroo was by no means a formality. It is not legitimate, it is not acceptable and, I add, it is a destructive instrument of democracy, even more sadistic and useless in the face of 500 amendments! It is an instrument with which you have been deprived of the right to choose the senators in this House. You have taken away the rights of the workers, or the possibility of changing the electoral law (on which you have put your trust again) and with which tomorrow you could do anything: take away the vote or freedom of speech! Do you still think, citizens, that you can give up this for specific social formations? I don't think so. I believe that, after the emotional wave, those of you who have not already done so will understand that you could not really accept this obscene barter and that we have not betrayed our commitment and will continue to fight consistently for freedom and equality. Millions of Italians have been deported: Renzi and PD have still used the mud and lie machine! The 5 Star Movement and many of our sympathizers activists Lgbt have passed for traitors and homophobes; and you have made me pass as a cynical political liar. Alas, in this story, if I have something to blame myself, it is the opposite: my total, even emotional, involvement in trying to bring these rights home. I have vacillated, I admit, in the face of the threat of paralysis of the House, the impossibility of voting for the unions and I vacillated in front of that bloody kangaroo when there were 7,000 amendments. I thank the Group for its consistency and lucidity. But then this situation vanished. This Mexican stalemate has vanished with, on the one hand, the guns pointed at the 5,000 amendments and, on the other hand, that of the Marcucci amendment, the super kangaroo, the gun held by Zanda. After the 5,000 amendments had been dropped, the gun had to be lowered as well. And instead Zanda raised the bazooka of trust! Too bad! Think: you could have had an intact law today. Everyone would clearly show their will and commitment and tonight I would be with you toasting on the street. But no, but I have to stand here rejecting yet another trust, looking you in the face and admitting that this is not a free country and it will not be as long as you rule. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We haven't made a single vow on this law. Remember that forever. I'm telling Senator Monica Cirinna I don't hold a grudge. She already has her cross: her name will be on the law of Alfano and Schifani. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I thank all those who believed us, who have been and are still at our side and all the others, who the day before wrote to me on social media that wanted to marry me and the day after I had to die. When you have to deal with love, you count it. And what doesn't kill us makes us stronger. In the end I understood two things: the first is that with certain scammers you cannot even deal with civil rights and that it ends badly. The only way out is to rule. The only solution is total equality of rights, without whether or not but without unions. The second thing is that Renzi made the worst move. He preferred to make an unclean law on rights with Alfano and let Verdini in the majority. He will pay for this and regret it bitterly, while he is already taking the sunset avenue. Finally, you have removed the obligation of fidelity, thus setting the horns free. Be careful because this - this yes - is too similar to marriage and then maybe it could be unconstitutional, like all this crap you're about to approve. Fuck you! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u102	Senator Airola, I do not allow you to use vulgar language in this House. I would refer you to Rule 66 of our Rules of Procedure. Senator Bernini is enlisted to speak, and I hope she will use the language that is appropriate to this House, as is her use. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u103	Madam President, I will try to contain myself. I must say that the text of the maxi amendment and the quality of this compromise at the lowest level do not help us, but I believe that this House has a sacredness that cannot and must not be violated, even if we are all subjected to a very strong temptation. I thank you, Madam President, and you, dear colleagues, who listen to me. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to a warning at the time and, on several occasions, strongly expressed by a very authoritative member of our Assembly - the then President of the Republic of Giorgio Napolitano - and addressed both to the Prodi Government and to the Berlusconi Government. The President-in-Office of the Council, to whom it must be acknowledged that this House is also committed, argued that the abuse of the decree of urgency, of trust and, even more so, of the maxims, whose text had not been worked and cooked in the Commission, represented a prevarication of the Government over the parliamentary debate, a profound wound for this House and a limitation of its sovereignty. After all, dear colleagues - as the previous senators have said - what is trust but a call to order, a reflection of obedience and an imposition without an alternative? Either the majority that supports the government votes yes, or we all go home. I am sure that President Napolitano, like all of us, has never been able to witness a vote of confidence not already on a law of stability (an economic measure on which the Government has placed all the expectations of its program), but on a norm like this, which deeply affects sensitive rights and which questions and shakes the consciences of all of us, even before our uniforms. If it is true, as it is true, that the abuse of the instrument of trust is in itself an anti-democratic practice, I would like to ask a question to all of us, you and those who denounced it then (I am sorry President Napolitano is not here): what adjective do we want to use for an imposition on conscience? Do we want to use adjectives as very serious and unacceptable? Shall we talk about the indecent precedent? I think it is indecent for those who do it and humiliating for those who suffer it to assimilate the parliamentarians of the Republic to recruits who, as in the famous film, you will all remember, "Ufficio and Gentleman," shoot tremendous on the attention in front of a sergeant with the whip. Colleagues, this is unacceptable for the dignity of this House. How can anyone who comes from a political history for which he would have made barricades on the violation of the sacredness of Parliament and the rights of oppositions and, above all and even more, on the rights of freedom? However, Sergeant Renzi has a very singular relationship with memory. He evokes the destruction of the old policy, while, with unheard of passion, he recycles in Parliament and on the territory of the elected political class under our banners and from which, moreover, the majority is guaranteed, as my previous colleagues have said. Perhaps today there will be an official entry by majority, which will be taken into account by the President of the Council and also by the President of the Republic, with a clear vote of confidence on the Government. Sergeant Renzi remembers with melancholy the deeds of the Christian Democrat Arezzo Fanfani, forgetting that precisely the DC of Moro and Fanfani, true party of the nation - yes, party of the nation - endowed with much more and much more consent than today's Democratic Party, did not put trust on divorce and abortion. He did not blackmail the government allies by binding the existence of the Executive to that civil battle. He did not do so and, only after the referendums, he could draw political consequences without blackmail and whips. You see, Mr Renzi, - and if you do not see it, if you have President Zanda explain it - for this purely parliamentary matter the main route would have been to allow the House to discuss the text of the rule in a timely manner, amendment by amendment and final vote and then approve it. The conditions were all there and there would still be. And you cannot ask the opposition, President Renzi, to ensure that the majority projects are carried out because you cannot do so alone. And you can't offend because we don't pave the way for you to defend yourself from your own contradictions. I have said very clearly - and I am referring to this concept, and I repeat this and I stress this - that, despite the criticalities of the Cirinna bill, I would have been willing to vote for it in the name of the advancement of rights which must not be invented here, but only recognised by us as legislators; rights which the European assembly knows, recognizes, legitimizes and values for more than twenty years; that European assembly which we are all bound to have formally acceded to the Community Treaties. On the other hand, you, the government's lords - and I am deeply sorry and mortified - have chosen an opportunist maneuver, which prevents us from voting on the text of the Cirinna bill; an opportunist maneuver, the one to be destroyed. Before you asked the opposition to vote on the kangaroo killer who would exterminate all their amendments indiscriminately, even when they had fallen to a physiological number. You then asked the oppositions to select the content of their amendments - which was quite curious in democracy - to do something grateful and make it easier for you. You have above all - and this is the most serious thing and you are still doing it - attempted to use opposition to resolve your internal contradictions. The wrong instrument, my dear colleagues, remains so even if one evokes a just cause. The killer kangaroo was the wrong tool when you used it for constitutional reforms. It was the wrong tool when you used it for electoral law and it will be the wrong tool even when you put it on some imaginative banking reform made to measure for some daddy in this government. The kangaroo killer was in order: dangerous, inadmissible, avoidable, as is avoidable this confidence. We all know that. Why should we vote for the trust with Sergeant Renzi's whip and not discuss and approve this bill in three days? You didn't explain it to us: why? In front of a crossroads - this, unfortunately, is the explanation, and we must give it ourselves - between democratic discussion and government agreement, you chose what you probably had in mind from the start: a downward compromise that held government and armchairs together. Moreover - it has remembered some colleagues that has preceded me - in a completely random way the week before the beginning of the iter of the Chamber of this bill, the Premier has recognized new armchairs to the party of government of the Minister of the Interior and therefore, on these premises, perhaps we must not be so surprised of the epilogue of today. The stage of the civil unions opens with the remix of Government and closes with confidence, with the whip of Renzi, whip and carrot, carrot and whip. I was and am ready - I repeat - to vote on a law on civil unions that is modern, advanced, European. I have declared it using that freedom of conscience which my party has allowed me, but that is not the law on which my conscience is committed. This bill is the humiliation of rights. The failure of the obligation of fidelity - I don't want to repeat myself, because you have already evoked it before me - for homo-affective couples is like saying: you promiscuous scumbags do not have to follow the rules of traditional marriage in order not to be approved. Colleagues, are you kidding me? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Buccarella.]] Are we not ashamed of this mortification to which we submit that people and that community of people who have believed in us? We put our face on it, apparently, because there are also those who pretend to put their face on it and, with compromises down, mortifies, humiliates, subtracts and does not add. This is not the law that recognizes the rights to homoaffective couples and their children. This is not a point of progress on civil rights. That's not true, and whoever tells you doesn't tell you the truth. This law is simply the daughter of the de facto union between the President of the Council and the Minister for the Interior, of the very uncivilized union between the President of the Council and the Minister for the Interior. Let's say that this law is your stepchild adoption: a daughter law of Alfano, which Renzi adopts as a result of civil union of Government. It is a law full of compromises which allude, but which do not grant, and commitments for the remote future that are unsatisfactory, even before for me, for all those who have put expectations on this law. It is on their skin that Renzi is throwing the ball out of the field, kicking a community of people waiting for answers to questions left for too long unsatisfied. An example for all - as we have said - is the adoption of the spouse's son. Let us not hide behind hypocritical promises, dear colleagues. Improving a perfectible text was possible, but it has succumbed to the insurmountable vetoes of those who do not want stepchild adoption now and will never want it. It is useless to pretend to present texts or drafts of law: those who today did not want stepchild adoption and put it aside as codice sine qua non to vote on this rule, adoption will never grant it. Let us not deceive ourselves and pretend to believe ourselves, we who believe in civil unions. We all know that stepchild adoption was a concession. In fact, it was not a concession, but a proper recognition of what from 1983 to today, from the times of Law No 184, jurisprudence already recognizes, mainly to hetero-affectional couples, because they were statistically and numerically greater, but now also to homo-affectional couples. The case law has marked a path on this. A responsible legislator cannot or, worse still, hide behind the judgments of the judiciary, complaining before the excessive discretion of the judges and then refusing to assume its responsibilities, as you are doing now. That's so wrong. A Parliament that refuses to legislate or, worse still, does it badly for its own internal compromises, pretending to give, but actually subtracting, fails to function and irreversibly cracks our relationship with our elected ones. I am and remain deeply in favour of civil unions and equalization between civil unions and civil marriage and I remain in favour, despite being perfectable, of the former bill Cirinna. Civil unions are an act of freedom, which the State must recognize, legitimise and protect. This law gives in a messy way some brands of welfare, however difficult to cover, and will create many problems. The previous speaker said that there were very serious problems in terms of technical coordination. But it does not recognize, because it is afraid - let us face it, colleagues - of the status, feelings and rights of new families. It is an act of downward compromise that shifts attention from rights to old politics, a concession that does not break down walls and that does not give dignity to love. I say yes, once again, to civil unions and all related rights. But I say no, really no, to the Government's cleverness; no to the arrogance of this bad trust, which hides a bad compromise; no to an operation never as violent as it is now towards Parliament - we have now become accustomed to being humiliated, violated and ignored - and to the removal of freedom from the country and from all those who have been illusory that they would have had new rights from it. That's not true. We must all be aware of this. It is not true and we must all, indeed you must - not us - assume the responsibility of removing and not giving. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and Misto-SEL groups and Senators Buccarella and Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u104	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today Italy opens a new page of family law, recognizing rights to all those couples formed by people of the same sex who already exist in our country and in our society, but who do not exist in the eyes of law. I also think of 2.5 million Italian citizens who have chosen to embark on a journey of life as a couple without getting married and a tomorrow without joining civilly: de facto couples that this law will finally recognize dignity and rights. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Liar! CIRINNA' (PD). It is an issue on which there was no attention, there was no political debate, there was no media and newspaper attention, perhaps because on it, too long-awaited and too important, there was not enough blood flowing, let's say so. Italy will no longer be the last on civil rights tomorrow morning. What we bring home today is a good result, but only a first goal. Others will have to overcome this with the same commitment and determination. The Democratic Party believed in this law so much that it tried to go beyond those borders that rarely crossed between majority and opposition, putting aside connivances and protagonists and placing at the center the interest of citizens. We have experienced terrible hours in recent weeks; hours in which ideological positions, tactics, political calculations have forced the Government to make the most difficult decision, but also the bravest one: to put trust in the best possible text under the conditions given by the numbers of this Senate. I repeat that the Democratic Party has believed in this law. Our will was clear and who with me, with two years of hard work, tried to build this text knows our will. Our will was clearly and clearly written in the premissive amendment of my colleague Marcucci, who then had the life he had, but the declarations of principle contained in it are valid: a new legal institution (civil unions), full of reciprocal rights and duties within the couple and the recognition of the extension of parental responsibility through the application of Article 44 (b) of the Adoption Act. This is what we wanted to bring home. We had therefore taken a shared, clear, loyal path with all those colleagues who wanted to vote on this bill. But then the incredible thing happened, the incredible thing for those who know the acts of a Parliament. The incredible thing happened when, on February 16, we realized that the so-called kangaroo would no longer have the numbers to be approved; blocked - someone said killed - by the re-emergence of the colorful party of immobilism, which for thirty years has not given rights to homosexual couples in this country. We've known this risk for a long time. We had long known the risk of walking on the edge of the volcano, of tensions outside and inside the majority, outside and within us. But no one - and I repeat no one - would have expected the ally who most shouted fidelity to the installation of the text to push into the crater of the volcano a great moment in republican history, who would have seen participating parliamentary forces even very far between them. This is why we have been forced, in order to reach the adoption of this measure, to a very hard decision. And I tell you that, humbly - and perhaps even unworthyly for some of you - I have played the role of rapporteur, and I believe that at this moment my suffering is visible. In order to reach the approval of the law, we have made a very hard decision: to proceed with confidence, in order not to postpone again to the immobilism and to the year of the never a fundamental appointment with history. I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen, we have not felt the need to expose the rights of same-sex couples to the Russian roulette of the secret vote. We did not have the courage to make them face the Russian roulette of the secret vote. [[Comments of Senators Cappelletti and Rizzotti. Applause from the PD Group).]] We'll never know, colleagues. The secret vote could have struck the beating heart of this law... Mr Capelletti (M5S). That's not true! CIRINNA' (PD). ...what represents the recognition of the rights, duties and dignity of couples as such. We do not know whether Article 2, if Article 3, if Article 5 would have gone to secret vote. Presumably yes, since our Rules of Procedure are clear. (15.38) BOTTICS (M5S). Fat said no! [[Recalls of the President]] What we want to say is that we need this vote of confidence to defend those families, those rights, those people for whom we are preparing to vote for trust. This is how we protect them from political play. We protect them with a vote of confidence. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Liar! CIRINNA' (PD). The Democratic Party has sacrificed to this situation a fundamental point of its programme, an objective on which we have worked carefully, with respect and passion, at the center of a debate that has been open to possible corrections and improvements. No one wanted to armor Article 5. We had made an amendment to Lumia text 1, text 2, text 3, and we were prepared to accept further amendments, if this Parliament had been allowed to apply Article 44 (1) (b), and whoever followed the work of the last few months knows what I am talking about. The special adoption of the partner's son, colleagues, is not heresy, it is not anthropological damage, it is not something that will change and shake this country from the foundations. It was the natural epilogue, what already happens throughout Europe: an act to protect children in the flesh, real children, Italian citizens who already live in our families, who are loved, protected, protected and cared for; children raised by people who actually play a parental role; a role that assigns them moral duties and responsibilities and that soon - because the commitment is this - a new law will have to recognize. Our commitment, therefore, does not end here; indeed, we are only at the beginning. We took only one step, very hard, but we did. We are at the dawn of a new challenge, for me, for my party, for the Democratic Party. In the meantime, however, I have heard everything and the opposite of everything about what was the bill n. 2081 and what is the government's maxi amendment. Let's be clear: in the maxi amendment, however, despite the painful deletion of Article 5, a guarantee rule that recognizes and supports the great work of the Italian magistrates who issued orders aimed at guaranteeing the supreme interest of the children of the same-parent families [[Applause from the PD Group),]] in line with European standards, with Law No 184 of 1983 on adoptions and soon, finally, in line with this new law. It would have been a human mistake, it would have been a political mistake, it would have been unbecoming - this yes - to stop the hands of those magistrates who, with difficulty, put at the first point of their work the supreme interest of the child. As I was saying, therefore, our commitment does not end here. We are already working on an organic reform of the adoption law, a law that will have to allow all families, however composed, to adopt and protect all children. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Poor people! CIRINNA' (PD). And also on this issue we will measure the coherence of those who preach well and rocket badly. I am thinking of all those who, while declaring themselves willing to give rights to homosexuals, have been the protagonists of the most intransigent obstructionism in the Commission, vilely rejecting the confrontation on any point, not only on stepchild adoption. STEFANI (LN-Aut). That's not true! CIRINNA' (PD). On this occasion it is my duty to acknowledge those who have tried to bring to the end a serious and loyal dialectical confrontation. I am thinking of my colleagues in the Mixed Group and the SEL component in particular, who have never gone back, even in the face of the difficult choice of whether or not to vote on the premissive amendment, which - it was well known to all of us - could have saved the contents of bill 2081. Finally, I would like to mention the merit of the maxi amendment which has incorporated in substance - and I am sorry to have heard the words of Senator Bernini, whom I personally esteem - the entire draft law at my first signature, with the corrections that we had already shared with those who really wanted to talk and which were provided for in the Lumia amendments. You know that the only thing missing in the maxi amendment - it is a hole in the measure, a hole in this Parliament, a hole in my heart - is the deletion of Article 5. The text we are about to vote on - we must also be honest and clear, even if we do not continually muddle the action of us Members - confirms the recognition of all rights, beginning with the most precious of family life, and adds an equally valuable reference, of considerable importance, which was denied to us in the Commission: the attachment to Article 3 of the Constitution, which will mark the now irreversible path that will lead us to formal and substantial equality. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is true that the requirement of fidelity has been removed - I come to the last controversy. We've been asked. The tower has been played - what do we throw out of the tower? - and, by the way, an agreement was allowed. Beyond the bar jokes of sport, two things must be clear: in many European countries the requirement of fidelity is not contemplated in any norm, for any type of couple, because, although it is an important moral requirement, fidelity cannot be imposed by law. In Italy fidelity survives in the civil code as a requirement resulting from a cultural heritage against women, a maleistic legacy that was nothing less than the basis of the crime of honor (you betray me, I can kill you). This is the real reason why today - we will commit ourselves to this - can also be overcome in the rest of the order. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Colleagues, in conclusion this bill, albeit impaired - we must be honest and recognize it - will make civil unions a reality in Italy. We took a first step to change. We change in this way: from family law to family law. From today on, our society will change. "What are the rights for me?" Francis wrote to me yesterday. "The rights are me. They are my name and my last name, I am what I have been since I was born, in fact, I am what I have not since I was born: the possibility of being considered equal to others, regardless of the form of my love. Thanks to this law, and I conclude, Mr President, millions of Italians will finally find citizenship. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-Idv Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u106	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the explanations of vote, which have been scheduled for 5.20 p.m., which have been concluded earlier than expected, with the agreement of the Heads of Group, are anticipated at 4 p.m. I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. in order to allow live television, which has been agreed and arranged. (The sitting was suspended at 15.48 p.m. and resumed at 16.02 p.m.) The session is resumed. It should be noted that the RAI television directive is under way. I ask the senators to respect the time for direct needs and allow everyone to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u109	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, here I am saying what I think of you: I feel bitter disappointment and pain towards you. You just want to win, win easy, you lack courage. On no occasion have you allowed yourself the luxury of risking a truly democratic confrontation and of leaving the senators to their consciences. You lack the courage of ideas, honesty, to change and give a turning point to our civilized world. Do polls of voting liking, without any ethics. Make calculations. Make deals under the table. Let's... let's... let's... let's... let's... let's... let's... let's... let's... let's... let's... let's... What place does intellectual honesty find in this reasoning? Nobody! Barabbas also saved himself by a majority against a minority, and a poor, innocent Christ. They are a minority that loves, that lives in the family and already has its children, a minority that without stepchild and without obligation of fidelity you raped. You have reduced these families to families not of the B series, but of the H series. To remove fidelity is to take away the heart of true love. What about their kids? What happens to them? Sold like missing kids for organ donation to the rich. Many of you are homophobes, many troglodytes and ignorant because you confuse homosexuality with depravity and pedophilia. The problem is that those who spend their time on YouPorn cannot understand what homosexuality is, you should know it: they are people. You cannot vote on matters unknown to you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, finish. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Homosexuality is a simple natural variant of human behavior. Marriage is a right and children are entitled to parents. I want to protest in the ways and contents of this trust on ethical issues, it is trust in conscience. It means that we are not able to do anything, the Senate is useless. Let's all go home. I'll hand over my resignation to the president and challenge all senators to do so with me, as a sign of protest, as a sign of change... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u110	Senator, your time is up.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u111	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I would ask you to hand over the text of the speech in order to attach it to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u114	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in Italy of the Values will vote 'yes' because, although this law has had a lower resolution, we are aware that, at the moment with this majority, it was the maximum achievable. We are convinced that our assent today will change the lives of many who are waiting to see their rights and duties of family life recognized. We are also convinced that our country still needs to move forward. These civil unions are certainly not superimposed on egalitarian marriages, as Senator Giovanardi says. For this reason and not only his vote will be "no". The Senators of the 5 Star Movement will also vote because this design is not egalitarian marriages, but a set of fake unconstitutional rights, always for them. Because of their political inability, they have been guilty of what is not produced and recognized in this Parliament today. In all cases, thanks to those who put the burden on us and make us say yes, civil unions will begin to exist also in our State, in the face of those who make senators in Parliament and who will go to govern thanks to the conspiracy. [[Applause from Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u117	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, this was a challenge. And, when a challenge between various contenders closes, it is customary to establish a ranking of who has won and who has lost. In the civil unions game - as we all know - nobody won, and this despite the incomprehensible triumphal declarations that come from the ranks of the majority, so incomprehensible that they are evidently not credible. Then let's take a ranking of the loser, and let's start with the loser. They lost the kids. Children born within homosexual families will continue to be ignored by a state that, once again, did not want to look them in the face, but only turned to the other side, leaving them once again alone to face the status of otherwise loved. They have lost homosexuals and their families, victims of a obscurantism that arrogates the right to judge the values of affectivity in contempt for the living reality and the principles of our Constitution and the policies of all countries at the forefront of civil rights. They have lost all those who believe in the defence of rights, because this provision, which was to be a symbolic law for the defence of rights, is filled with discriminatory elements and formulations and all clarifications are always denigratory. The references to Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution to Senator Cirinna are in fact only the desire to depart from other articles of the Constitution, which could have best sanctioned a right to the recognition of equal affectivity. They have lost the judges, who will have to continue to manage themselves as they can with respect to a regulatory vacuum created by a State that, in reality, behaved like Pontius Pilate. They have lost the centrists who, in this way conned, have ridden the cause of civil rights, for the sole purpose of transforming every head of so-called Catholic bigot sympathizer into a vote for the next election. Alfano's statement: "We prevented a revolution against nature and anthropology" is so ridiculous that it does not deserve a comment. He has lost the government that has denied himself so many times that the only way to mask this non-existent identity was, in the end, once again to impose trust. He lost the 5 Star Movement, because the idea of coming here and finding a majority for the right laws does not exist, and it does not exist even among those who today have become their leaders. He lost democracy, between kangaroos and trust. There is now a total lack of courage to face the real confrontation. Once again, what will happen if the constitutional reform is approved has been foreshadowed. They have lost all those voters of the Democratic Party who hoped for a step of dignity, in the full and courageous realization of at least one given of their program. And the often manifested fear of the secret vote by the colleagues of the Democratic Party is a pathetic argument and is a slap for each of their voters. The darkness prevails, the dense darkness under which this legislature was born; the opacity of a majority that only wants to cover, at all costs, opaque rents of position. Terror has manifested itself in all the interventions of those who would have been excluded, even if they were of the majority, from voting on a law that could be good and effective. In this massacre of losers on the ground, civil society is left, the real one; so many citizens who will continue their lives once again, despite the state and despite politics, as they are now accustomed to doing. They will take care of protecting the rights of children who are otherwise loved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u120	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, we had to vote on a law on civil unions, and instead we are here today to express ourselves on an amendment tabled by the Government, which has never been discussed here, which denies everyone. Not only does it not win anyone - as Senator Mussini said very well - but it denies my colleague Cirinna, who sees the law that bore her name crippled. He denies Minister Boschi when he claimed that the government would not put its face on this measure. And he denies Minister Alfano, who is content with few and little significant changes. If simple periphrases are sufficient for colleagues in the People's Area to satisfy their requests, disappointment certainly awaits them. It has been technically defined a maxi amendment of the Government - therefore of the Renzi Government - but of maxi I find that there is only the mockery of the two squares that have animated with great participation this debate, as it was normal that it was for an issue that crosses the consciences of all the Italian citizens and of all of us, their representatives. But that was precisely what the masterpiece we only read last night was for: to prevent the freedom of conscience initially guaranteed transversally a little by all the parliamentary groups. No one knew what to do with that freedom of conscience. This, in fact, is not a law, but an illusion that disappoints in a single shot both squares and in the background leaves - alas - a sea of rights not guaranteed to those couples of fact who have the misfortune of not being homosexual and to whom no one devotes more than a minute of their attention. This is a bad mistake made by policy and the information system. Instead of a law, we vote on a sort of Frankenstein, written in a rush, read at night and voted in a few numbered minutes: not a law of Parliament, but a law of the Renzi Government. The people of the Family Day demanded a clear differentiation between civil unions and marriage but, reading the text, how did it end? All Italians know that they are practically the same thing: the only minimal difference lies in the abolition of the obligation of mutual fidelity for homosexual couples only. To say that it is a downside compromise is still not enough. If it is true that Article 5 of the Cirinna bill on stepchild adoption has disappeared, despite the efforts of the vast legal culture of President D'Ascola, it is equally true that in the last period of paragraph 20 of the maxi amendment maliciously is available: The provisions of the Law of 4 May 1983, No 184 on adoption, remain in place and are allowed to be adopted by the rules in force. The use of the expression "allowed" leaves open a window that creeps between the folds of what the old law on adoptions does not regulate, downloading - as has already been said - every decision, on a case-by-case basis, to the judiciary. President D'Ascola said it was a reverse law. Actually, it is the train of desires that goes to the meeting. We of the Conservative and Reformist Group, seeing this danger, had since the beginning asked to put aside momentarily the very delicate issue of adoptions, so as to arrive at the approval of a text widely shared by all, moreover, as done in all the countries that cited: first the law on civil unions and, only later, the law on adoptions. We aspired to make our contribution - like everyone else - for a good law. But the cleverness of the maxi amendment divides the country and Parliament between those who vote PD, or are willing to vote it with its deceptive mediations, and those who would have just wanted to vote a law, possibly a good law. It is a measure with cultural and social implications so important for those who, like us, do not want to adhere to an ethical state vision far from light years from the liberal Italian, Catholic and non-Catholic culture. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to announce our conviction to civil unions, without discrimination of sex for anyone, but a great no to the confidence of the Government, to this scam against the Italians and the rights of all. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u123	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, before we begin, I would like to remind my colleagues and those who listen to us from home that the Government has asked for confidence and at the moment there is no Minister sitting on the government stand to listen to the parliamentary debate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mandelli.]] This, President, is what the Government thinks of a House legitimately elected by Italian citizens, a Government not elected by anyone who at this moment demands trust and is totally disinterested in the parliamentary debate. Congratulations, Mr President-in-Office, once again you have demonstrated your political arrogance. Mr President, we in the League have, from the outset, clearly and clearly shown our clear opposition to this measure. Anything can be said except that the League did not state clearly what its position was. For us there is only one family, one, and a natural society founded on marriage, Article 29 of the Italian Constitution. Unfortunately in this case too, Mr President, we are in a parliamentary Chamber, but very often colleagues forget that there is a Constitution in this country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] There is no right, Mr President, to public recognition of emotional unions other than family. It is right - in our opinion - to strengthen those guarantee instruments with respect to the enjoyment of the rights of all, no one excluded, individual rights already widely protected, even though, in these days, we have been told the opposite. The problem is that the opposite was told not by uninformed people, but by people sitting in this House. Lies, President, lies to confuse people. It is evident that at this time the family is the weak subject and with you, thanks to you and because of you from today it is even weaker. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You have put the family in the sedan in the eyes of public opinion and also of information. Even the information, very often, presented the natural family as something to mock, as something nineteenth-century. Today, Mr President, this House is not expressing itself on measures to support economically the first social shock absorber, that is, the family. We're not doing anything to help Italian families. What powers and reasons require our country to legislate on a subject that the vast majority of Italians do not share and do not consider urgent? We lost three weeks talking about this issue when in Italy there are 10 million Italians below the poverty line and 42 percent of youth unemployment, unemployed young homosexuals and heterosexuals, people who have as their priority to find a job to have a future. We're here, President, wasting time. We would like to know what morbid attention conceals even from the media who inform without impartiality, mortifying reality. If you are straight - I said this before - you are a trivial person; if you have a natural family, you are a trivial person. I'm proud to be a trivial and proud person to be a father to a child who has a dad and a mom. After years in which the family has been the victim of systematic aggression, having failed to destroy it in a frontal way, you are trying to achieve this aim in a subtle way. To set up so many families means to cancel the meaning of family itself. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The attitude we have taken has been clear to everyone, except for the Democratic Party, unfortunately. Twelve Senators of the League - some compared us to the village of Asterix, and we are proud of this - put the government and the parliamentary majority under check. We played with your fear. Chihuahuas, you looked like chihuahuas barking at the moon but, at the right time, you pulled back. Chihuahua, not kangaroos: chihuahua! Go look at what they are. [[Senator Bencini's comments.]] We have worked to make this happen well in advance, before each deadline, deciding to table 5,000 amendments and to submit them one day in advance of the deadline, assuming, but without fear, that the government's reaction, through the usual protagonist of the parliamentary majority, would be to orchestrate a trap to avoid votes on such a delicate subject. And so it was. The kangaroo Marcucci, which you put in the head of all of us like the sword of Damocles, telling us for two weeks that we had to make a pact between gentlemen and threatening me for two weeks, because there was that famous kangaroo, within a few minutes he went to be blessed, attacked by 500 amendments, that someone compared to 500 small koalas (since we talk about animals in that area). You have played with our patience, but this time the game did not work and found an obstacle in compliance with the rules demonstrated by the 5 Star Movement Group, at the time when the League made itself available for a parliamentary discussion, withdrawing, as from agreements between fake gentlemen (the fakes are you), as much as 90% of the amendments. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Not obstructionism, as you said in all the sauces, but respect the rules, which you don't even know what it is. We have won a match alone against everyone, for our determination, and we have forced the Government to condition the parliamentary will with confidence, contradicting what has been said on a number of occasions, namely that these decisions should be exclusively for the debate and the personal conscience of individual Members. I remember the members of the government doing the phenomena, saying that it was up to Parliament; but then they found themselves having to make the paladins without spot and without fear. You proved weak and were afraid of the secret vow, when for days you had gone on to be strong and to threaten everything and everyone, saying that you were not afraid of anyone. This is the result. Although the President-in-Office of the Council - a phenomenon that works miracles - can now tell that he has survived parliamentary quicksand, in fact the path to the final adoption of this bill still presents many obstacles: our obstacles. This is demonstrated by the fact that no one today can be said to be victorious: neither the rainbow families, sacrificed to the logic of the bleak interests of government, your [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , nor the supporters of the path of compromise, who for fear of returning to the desert of politics have renounced their conscience and democracy. Thanks to us, even if others today have the courage to attribute its merits, the most aberrant part has been removed, the one that preceded the desire for parenthood to the rights of children: to have a mother and a father, not a parent 1 and a parent 2 or two people who do not know what they are. However, we are aware that what the legislator will not write today could be imposed by the jurisprudence, because the hypocrisy of the text does not exclude and does not explicitly provide to ban the inhuman practice of the uterus for rent and leaves room for excessive interpretations by magistrates in the matter of adoptions. Dear colleagues from the New Right Center, you have achieved nothing. You didn't get anything! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The decision to remove the obligation of fidelity is ridiculous. You compared civil union to a marriage and, as a result, the obligation of fidelity was also to remain. It's too nice to have rights and not have duties. There have been senators who in these days assured rainbow couples that they would vote for the measure only if there had been stepchild adoption. What are you gonna do now? There were senators who at the Circus Maximus, on the day of the Family Day, had made promises to the families present at that event: Judas sold for thirty denarii! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] To those outside we say: look carefully at the faces of those who promised and the faces of those who betrayed. We are consistent: we have said no from the beginning and have not changed our mind. The others do. We are only at the beginning, Mr President. The Democratic Party promises that adoptions will be introduced into a new law. Dear colleagues from the Democratic Party, we will be there. We will be here to defend children, children's rights and to make barricades, which will be as high as skyscrapers, because children's rights must be defended and you are not doing so. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that your victory is the daughter of a polygamous civil union, in line with the decision to remove the obligation of fidelity: the civil union Renzi-Alfano-Verdini, the masters of the political infidelity of this country. Shame on you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u126	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I say to you, to the whole of this House and to those who listen to us that a large part of the Group will not vote for trust; one part will do so, even if the person who does so would not have voted for the whole article if he had remained what he was and had foreseen adoptions. Those who do not vote for trust would also have voted for some of the articles if they had been put to the vote individually, but having put the question of trust very much shifts the debate. It is beyond doubt that we are dealing with a highly ethical subject, where ethics - let us remember - is the analysis of behavior in application of principles and values, that is, in application of morals. A government like that Renzi, which makes an ethical argument the foundation of its program and therefore places on it a question of trust, takes consequently, strongly, overpoweringly the form of an ethical government. According to modern texts (in literature there is an abundance of writings in this sense), the current canons describe democratic governments only with the premise of liberal governments, therefore an ethical government such as the one in office must have the awareness that there is a serious risk of being considered illiberal. This statement may seem a little strong, almost bigoted - I see someone looking at me smiling - then let's explain. If the fact of wanting to maintain and mutual in the legal order a moral principle drawn up and metabolised socially is decided by citizens and therefore by their representatives (i.e. by Parliament), that is possible, Mr President, and that is a right. If, on the other hand, it is a government that wants to do this, it is not a right but a claim. In this way, the government - I repeat - becomes ethical, with its risks and its dangers, for itself and for the country. In history these have only been Executives who in the derivation of the ethical government end up being, in the common diction, moralist governments, that has taken advantage of moral arguments to cover demagogic intents, to manipulate consensus. If, in order to change the legal order, a Government splits the country (I repeat: the Government, not the popular will and therefore the parliamentary one, after an accurate discussion, leaving the parliamentarians free to make amendments), that Government is the sorcerer apprentice, because it deals with topics that are not only not within its competence, but that it cannot and must not treat, of which it must not be aware, in the sense that it must not take possession to carry out its activity. If this was to distract the attention from institutionally more congenial subjects, so that the people and the country would not think of the national and international economic crisis, so as not to bring into Parliament the structural reforms of our state system which lie in the Commission; if it did so in order not to discuss security, justice and health in this Chamber and - if I may - if it did so in order not to debate in this Chamber - I will not tire of repeating it - in Mezzogiorno, which seems to be a completely forgotten topic in any speech by the Government and the guilty Parliament, which subjugates in this address to the majority, succube of the Government; if this Government is only able to raise its voice (and only its voice) in Brussels, but this voice does not reach Cairo; if in the East, when the Italian Government speaks, only the "Indians" do, then there is something wrong. If, then, the government does this in order not to favour dialogue, which must be open and direct between majority and opposition, but on the contrary to try to water down the confrontation and competition, which are the salt of democracy, then that is not the case. If, then, he did it for game, to play the game of the three cards, between Movement 5 Stars, AL-A and NCD, then he did it not for institutional duty, not for government program, but he did it because he thought this could be a game and he did it bad as well. I still question why the government raises the question of trust. It says: to avoid obstruction. But what obstructionism can we talk about? Perhaps that of the few, contained and argued amendments, which - we said yesterday - are a right and a duty of the Member of Parliament? A duty, to give voice to those who elected him and to their political side, to their own conviction and who are the foundation of democratic life. How can the government think of forcing the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution? How can the government, for this reason, think of compressing the right to debate? How could you think of the killer amendment? Because the government thought so, and I can't believe the majority did. And why, after he jumped the bench, instead of being induced to a better and more prudent meditation, did he want to let himself go to an unconsulted demand for program? We have heard in this House that it is not the government programme, because it is not common to NCD. We heard this morning, on television, Bersani tell us that it was the electoral campaign program of the party; an electoral campaign that they also lost, so what is the obligation with the electorate? What is the basis for putting the question of trust, just as Senator Finocchiaro argued yesterday? Putting trust, remember, is not specifically written in the Constitution: it is a derivation. In the Constitution it is written that the Government must receive confidence and, therefore, on the other hand, the question of distrust can be asked of the Government; but it is a doctrinal derivation that the Government places confidence on an amendment. Therefore, on the basis of a practice, we are voting with confidence on an amendment which is completely a substitute for a draft law, at first reading, which is not voted in the Commission and without rapporteur, that is, a law that has never been dealt with and which should have been ethically parliamentary and not, as it is now, a governmental one. With confidence, the government wants to overwhelm everything. We do not call this, perhaps, a dictatorship - because it would be excessive - but at least let me say that it is an unheard of bullying. Of great importance, then and finally, is the fact that the principles and values we are talking about are part, for the majority of the country, of convictions pertaining to natural law and, even more, religious belief. Trust therefore overwhelms the sacred right enshrined in the Constitution to express the secret vote, which is not possible. Here we do not want to destroy just one party but to distort the fundamental rules of civil coexistence, of the history and tradition of our country, that is its most sacred order. All this is done by the government rather than by dealing with it, I do not say more serious matters - because these are serious things already - but at least of matters within its competence. This is demagogy, moralism, that is a hypocritical, partisan, functional use of an intimate and profound feeling like that of the family. No, we cannot put our trust, Mr President, in a matter of conscience and freedom. This government does it to save itself, sacrificing freedom for governability. But in doing so he does not make himself worthy of either, and I cannot vote for this trust. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u129	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Orlando, the vote that we will shortly be voting on civil unions represents a historical watershed, a Rubicone of the rights that Italy is finally about to pass after thirty years of unnecessary attempts and ideological battles too often of rearguard. It was 1988 when the Socialist Member, Alma Cappiello, presented the first legislative proposal on the subject. Then there were only disappointed promises and hopes, passing through Pacs, I say, up to the Didora. Many mockery acronyms, all ended up in Parliament's archives after months and years of exhausting and useless negotiations. Meanwhile, Italian society, at the same time as other European countries, has evolved; it has progressively modified its civil conscience and the common feeling on the social formations that the constituent Fathers, with great foresight, decided to protect; a sacred principle to which ordinary laws have never complied. Of course, there is a part of politics - which must be respected, but certainly not shared - according to which the recognition of rights to homosexual couples carries with it the risk of dissolution of society, which would be undermined in its natural foundations. In these weeks we have witnessed an escalation of misinformation, of exploitation even of children and their rights, which has brought us back to a poisoned climate of anti-historical counter-reform. The reality - if you will allow me - is another. The bill Cirinna is a measure of civilization that comes to heal a deep vulnus that has opened between the living society of the country and Parliament, which had to translate its demands into law, and so far has failed to do so. That is why we, since the beginning of his tormented senate procedure, have declared ourselves in favour of the bill on civil unions and are proud that our vote last week was decisive in determining its postponement. If that day had been put to the vote the amendment Marcucci, the so-called kangaroo, in fact, the law would have been buried and today, we would not be here to discuss the maxi amendment of the government, to which I already announce the favorable vote of the AL-A Group. There was a majority agreement between the Democratic Party and the People's Alliance, which did not upset the text's layout, apart from the article on adoptions. If that understanding had led to a drastic contraction of rights, one step back again unacceptable, we would not have voted for confidence. That is certain, because we are convinced - as the chairman of our Group, Senator Verdini, always says - that civil unions are a conquest of civilizations. We are asked by Europe, which is based on the recognition of de facto unions, including homosexuals, among whom there can be no unequal treatment. But, in our opinion, there is another important reason why the legislator has a duty to intervene: in order to avoid that on this ground too, as happened for example in the case of electoral law, politics is then obliged to pursue the Constitutional Court, which by judgment No 138 of 2010 has authoritatively supported, with a solemn warning to Parliament, that the stable cohabitations formed by couples of homosexual persons are entitled to full legislative recognition, in a set of rights and duties precisely on the basis of the value that Article 2 of the Constitution recognizes to the social formations in which the personality develops. We would also have voted on the adoptions of homosexual couples, because we are quite clear that the so-called stepchild adoption already exists at the legal level in our country. In fact, there are judgments which, with very serious and complex reasons, all based on the best interests of the child and the need to avoid discrimination, have already applied it. Moreover, the European Courts have long established that, once a State of the European Union approves a law on civil unions, any difference in treatment between them and marriage, in particular for adoptions, constitutes a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights. So this is an issue that Parliament will have to address soon, if it does not want to abdicate its role and we will not fail to make our effective contribution. Today the alternative, for the forces that come from liberal, popular and socialist traditions is very simple: either you stand with anti-political and anti-system populisms, or with reformism. The latter is our choice and it is our home, because the reforms are in our DNA and civil rights belong by right to the category of necessary reforms. That is why we will vote for confidence in the Cirinna Act, even if confidence is a very demanding parliamentary act, but there are occasions when we have to overcome the barrier of formalism and look at the substance, throwing the ball beyond the obstacle. There is a real risk that without the votes of the AL-A Group this law will not pass, just as without our votes constitutional reform would not have passed, and the recognition of the rights of so many citizens has a greater value than parliamentary procedures and their political consequences. Let us be clear and tell our many concerned detractors: there is no bartering of seats on citizens' rights and there is no political commodity at the basis of our decision. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups. Ironic applause from Senator Airola]] Of course, we reaffirm the strong agreement that the President of the Renzi Council spoke courageously about last Sunday at the National Assembly of the Democratic Party and confirm our willingness to turn our support for the measures that convince us in a broader reformism, to give a fulfilled sense to this legislature, born without a certain majority, which is either a constituent legislature or has no reason to continue. We have remained faithful, with extreme consistency, to the Nazarene covenant and we thank you, Senator Verdini, for being one of its fathers. We also do not subscribe to the sfascists, who delegitize each other and bring internal political battles to Europe, with irreparable damage to the country's image. For twenty years the center-left with Berlusconi has done so and today the center-right with Renzi does it. It is a political misconception, which undermines the value of stability and national interest: values that are at our heart. We are aware that reforms are a challenging and even dramatic path, a challenge of culture and values to populism and the experience of AL-A has been born to allow reforms to fly and not stop: from policies to support income from work, to taxing the first house, from institutional simplification to the revision of the fiscal compact. Today, therefore, we are in the field not to postpone once again a law of civilization and we shared the decision of the President of the Council Renzi to choose a certain result, so as not to risk yet another postponement. That is why I confirm our yes to this measure both from a technical point of view, of form and substance, and from a political point of view. Yes to the confidence, then, which means carrying forward those who, in civil rights, have remained behind for too long. [[Applause from the AL-A Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u132	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, today the Senate will take a long-awaited act in Italy and also in Europe, with regard to the rights and recognition of homosexual couples. Unfortunately, in a Europe in which material walls are being built, with the illusion of being able to isolate itself, an ideal and substantial wall finally breaks down with regard to civil unions. To date, this serious gap in our system has divided us from Europe and the countries that have long recognized and regulated civil unions. I would remind you that Germany already in 2001, so fifteen years ago, legislated on this matter. Although late, this remedys a regulatory vacuum repeatedly denounced by the Constitutional Court and also by the European Court of Human Rights. The vote of confidence is a choice of the government that we share, because it is made inevitable by the opposition to the bill, in particular on Article 5 regarding adoptions. A little hypocritical are the objections to the government's decision to raise the question of trust. In view of the stalemate in this House, also because of the cross-cutting vetoes that have made it impossible for any hypothesis of parliamentary mediation, a direct commitment from the Government has been called for from several quarters, and even the President of the Council has challenged himself to put his face on it. Now, as if it were not a consequence, the Government accuses itself of not wanting to confront it with the question of trust. However, there has been, and also ample, confrontation, but now the time has come for us to decide. The point is not the number of amendments deemed admissible. Given the political conditions, the choice to vote on a text that has its logical consistency seems the most effective to finally reach the adoption of a law regulating civil unions. It is not a drama for us if the so-called stepchild adoption is not clearly and unequivocally regulated in the text. Politics is always the art of doing everything possible and objectively today we are not in a position to do more. What finally finds is the approval of the Civil Unions Act, which was and is the main objective. In the unfortunate hypothesis that there will be no majorities in this Parliament to regulate, by separate measure, even the adoption, the judges will take care. The wording chosen on adoptions will therefore be somewhat ambiguous, but it ensures in any case that the current situation, where the judiciary is allowed to intervene, is not worsened. I would like to remind my colleagues that in Germany, too, a law on civil unions was launched in 2001 without regulating adoption and other important aspects. Subsequently the German Constitutional Court intervened with several judgments, which extended numerous rights not originally provided for in civil unions. Finally, by a ruling of February 2013, the Bundesverfassungsgericht ruled that any differentiation between heterosexual and homosexual couples in the matter of adoption was unconstitutional. The future path is therefore already marked, regardless of whether Parliament will assume its responsibility or not. In my opinion, the only thing really important and that remains the scrutiny by a judge who will have to examine whether there are the conditions for adoption taking into account exclusively the interest of the child. The primary interest is in fact that of the minor, not the right of civil unions to adoptions. It is good that the government amendment has accentuated the distinction between the institution of marriage and the institution of civil union: they are very distinct institutions. There is no equivalence because there are no legislative choices that can and will associate or confuse civil union with marriage. Of course, there are also some changes that leave us a little perplexed, such as the elimination of the obligation of fidelity only for civil unions; not because I think it is a determining element but because it can be read, not without reason, as offensive, if not derogatory, towards homosexual couples. This does not mean that our opinion on the text as a whole is positive. The draft law also deals with matters of concern to the living partners, which are often neglected in this House's debate: in particular, some important changes are incorporated - in our opinion - in the area of rights, especially for women living in the family business, who for the first time will also have recognition of their employment contribution in the event of the dissolution of this de facto union. At the same time, it is a good thing that the government text removes the obligation of maintenance for de facto living partners, originally contained in the basic text of the Justice Commission. We do not believe that mere coexistence should be associated with excessive constraints. In the face of several options that all couples have, the choice of those who want to live together in fact must also be safeguarded, without excessive constraints in case of cessation of cohabitation. For all these reasons, the Autonomy Group will vote in favour of the question of trust posed by the Government. [[Applause from the Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u135	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the strongest feeling at this moment is bitterness for us in SEL and the Italian Left. We had the opportunity to make our country make a great step forward in terms not only of legislation, but also of culture and civilization. We were one step away from it. There was a parliamentary majority ready to do so. We have missed the target in the last section of the road, because in the end poor calculations have prevailed, parliamentary cunnings of small cabotage, party and electoral interests, fear of polls drugged by information often partial and incorrect. From the calculations and political opportunisms we warned you because we were called to heal after thirty years the void and backwardness of our country in the field of civil rights. We had said at the beginning of the path of this bill, that for us it was already a mediation, that never, in the face of a matter of such vital importance as the recognition of the rights of couples of the same sex and the cancellation of an odious discrimination, we would look at the convenience of the cast, never would we have made precedence calculations based on the interest of party. That's how it was. We didn't do it once, but, unfortunately, we were the only ones. The 5 Star Movement took on a grave responsibility and with its choice offered a silver plate to the Democratic Party the alibi to conclude a downward agreement [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Bisinella]] with those who have worked from the beginning to break down this law, to those who have not missed the opportunity to offend, insult and try to humiliate all interested persons [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bencini]] : children, homosexual couples and same parent couples. In this way you have given the alibi for a trust useful to recompense your own ranks and the majority of government. The text of the maxi amendment was born from the agreement, the one that is truly counter-nature, between those who said that this law wanted it and those who have always hindered it. This is also an insult and an offense. What is the point of removing the bond of fidelity from civil unions other than to brand homosexual couples with the brand of promiscuity? From a legal point of view, the removal of that constraint is de facto devoid of consequence. His intention is clearly ideological: it is not only a matter of marking the difference between civil unions and marriage, but of doing so in the most hateful way, with a text that in its current formulation raises the flag of the worst and most shameful prejudice. I would like to ask who for months has consistently fought for a law that would bring down discrimination: how can you now rejoice at a text that not only makes the most forbidden and disgusting prejudice, the one about promiscuous homosexuals, unable to give life to a true couple, to a real family, but even transforms it into State law? This agreement to the bottom with confidence was not obliged, even after the choices of the 5 Star Movement. It is right to make this clear because, in these days, with the usual complicity of a media system, those that were certainly not truth were actually doomed to the sun. There was nothing to prevent us from following the proper parliamentary process by voting on the draft Cirinna Act amendment by amendment, all the more so after the President of the Senate did not accept the premissive amendments. The result would have been a better text than you are going to vote on. We are, in fact, as many of my colleagues have already pointed out, faced with a very particular and contradictory case, because the Government has once again chosen the path of forcing and humiliating Parliament, imposing the vote of confidence, but also at the same time of giving in, because it has allowed the last word on this law to the sworn enemies of the same law. Renzi, today, raises the question of trust in his own surrender. This forcing and failure, is repeated and punctually amplified by the media a hundred times a day, were necessary to save the law. We don't think so. The President of the Council did not decide to use trust to save the law but to save the compactness of his party and its majority. On the altar of this calculation of shop did not hesitate to sacrifice the rights of real people, in the flesh, and before any other, of children. Today the title of the "Manifesto" unfortunately sums up a sad truth: ==References====External links== This is exactly what the law would like to sanction: the division between "A" and "B" series children, between children of holy marriage and children of guilt, as they used to say. There is something absurd and paradoxical in the outcome of a law that, born to put an end to intolerable discrimination, ends up proposing and arming it just to the detriment of those who are weaker and those who most need to be protected from prejudice and discrimination. Yet this absurdity is the result of the agreement that the Government and the Democratic Party have decided to tighten. Just like the ancient children of guilt, even the children of the same parent couples will from now on have to rely on the clemency of the court. Because it is true, the law allows judges to make up for it by their judgments in the vacacy legislation, but I am not sure that it is a result to boast about and for which Parliament can congratulate itself. After this law everything will remain entrusted to the discretion of the judges, who also begin to be tired of this continuous delegation by politics. This continues in that path of abdication of politics to its own tasks and prerogatives which has contributed decisively to the mistrust and detachment of citizens towards politics itself. It does not seem to me to be a result of which we can be satisfied and boasted. We were told yesterday that the wound will be healed as soon as possible thanks to a comprehensive law on adoptions that will address, again, also the issue of adoptions of same-parent couples and that will be quickly approved with preferential lane. We'd love to believe it, but it's not easy. The agreement you have made in the last few days does not pave the way for a law on adoptions: the bar. That bill will be presented, but we fear that it will end where the one on homophobia has already ended: forgotten for months in a drawer. We, together with many others and the entire LGBTQ movement, wanted a law that would finally put an end to discrimination, a serious law to recognize and give rights. We also accepted a clear text of mediation in order to finally bring down the shame of discrimination. But this text that you are preparing to vote on is far from that objective. The senators of SEL and the Italian Left will vote against, not only because an opposition force does not vote for the government, but also because of the content of this law is very far from what we have worked for. But we don't give up. We will continue our political and cultural battle in the House and in the country, because there are unbearable discriminations, especially towards the weakest and towards all different forms of love. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u136	A delegation from the Technical Committee of the Japanese Chamber of Representatives is present in the gallery to verify the Italian parliamentary procedures, on a visit to the Senate, to which we address our greetings and best wishes for good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u139	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, I declare my Group's vote in favour of the measure and confidence. I would like to remind my colleagues that, starting from 2007, already during the Prodi Government, an attempt was made to adopt a law, called Dico, which regulates the rights and duties of de facto couples. At that moment there was still no social awareness of the development of that problem and in fact we all remember that the outcome was negative, either because of the problems within that majority, or because the majority of Italians themselves were against it. Many years have passed and today the thought of Italians has changed. I believe that there has been a cultural evolution and that the thought of this political class has changed too, leading to the adoption of the maximum effort to give the country a balanced law that can solve the issue. It is a matter of freedom of conscience and not of politics, in which individual Members must obey their own ego, in the context of their own assessment of the future new structure of our society and the rights and duties of homosexual couples, which we respect. Mr President, I have said on several occasions that I and - I believe - my Group would have preferred to have followed a different parliamentary and political path from the outset. In fact, it is true that it is a matter of freedom of conscience, but if we had started from a preventive agreement on shared issues within the majority, then extending the comparison to other political forces that shared those points, we would probably have avoided the use of the vote of confidence, that does not enthusiast us and that satisfies us only to the extent that it allows us to give a response to the country. Our points were always the same and have not changed at the beginning or at the end of this path. We have never raised our voices or threatened, and we have been consistent with certain certainties: yes to the regulation of homosexual couples, recognizing the rights and duties they claimed (the right to cohabitation, responsibility and mutual assistance), but no to the homologation of these new rules to those of marriage. We have committed ourselves to this, finding in the last few days and also on yesterday's day a collaboration with the relative majority party. However, it remains a firm no, decided and convinced to stepchild adoption (i.e. the adoption of the son of the partner of the civil union), which was not included in the project Dico of the Government Prodi of 2007. In our opinion, the limits of Mrs Cirinna's text probably lie in this, in having wanted to address a subject on which there were considerable divisions, even transversal and internal to the same parties. The theme of parenthood has been essential and preeminent for us: I refer to the logic according to which the child must be guaranteed a heterosexual parenthood, that is, a father and a mother and not two fathers or two mothers. On this we have never taken a little step back and in the aftermath of the breakdown of the political-parliamentary understanding between the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement we did not raise our voice and not even the price in our negotiation to find an understanding within the majority and arrive at this vote of confidence. We have mediated - yes - but in our opinion improving the text in order to make a clear distinction between the main rules of marriage and the rules of civil unions, so that they could not be superimposed. The incipit of the maxi amendment mentions Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution, as the reference elements of the whole measure (it is about the fundamental rights of the person), and not Articles 29 and 31 of the Constitution, in the matter of rights and composition of the family. Already this debut is in our opinion a criminal of what wants to be the body to cover the protection of the rights provided by the same law. In mediation we have also introduced the elimination of one of the elements that we believe are the foundation of marriage, provided for in Article 143 of the Civil Code, that is, the obligation of fidelity, from whose non-respect - you, President, are more jurist than I - descends the prediction of the dissolution of marriage, because it is one of its fundamental pillars. We predicted it, we asked it, we got it as a mediation just to make sure that civil unions were something quite different from the rules of marriage. But we have also done so in order to protect this law from possible constitutional reliefs. We have also done so because we all know a very important sentence of the Constitutional Court which called on the legislator to intervene but warned him not to adopt a law similar to the legislation on marriage, because this would be contrary to the constitutional provisions. We have also clarified the procedures for the dissolution of the future civil union respect, I do not say to the fraginousness, but to the articulation and dissolution of the marriage which, as you teach me, President, provides for the phase of separation and the phase of divorce. This is also to streamline this phase and to demonstrate in a comprehensive and clear way that civil union is something quite different from the rigidity and essentiality of the marriage union, which postulates for its dissolution of the phases of decantation. We have also clarified the non-applicability of the Law on Special Adoptions to Civil Unions. Good. Yesterday we worked in full harmony as between allies of government, in an atmosphere of mutual cooperation, Mr President. No one won. We believe that it has won the common sense and interest of the country and that we are fully satisfied with this. However, we reiterate a concept: we will continue our fight to prevent this or other parliaments from facing and legislate on a subject on which we have never agreed, that of a reform of the adoptions law that can foresee, precisely, the failure of heterosexual parenthood. Instead, we are ready to make our big contribution so that the adoption law can be improved in the sense of speeding up the rules aimed at allowing couples to adopt children even from foreign states, children abandoned by parents who have left them in orphanages and family homes and who suffer and live daily the suffering for the lack of the affection of a father and a mother. On this reform we will make our voice heard and make our contribution but we will be consistent with our opposite position on homosexual parenting. Mr President, I am about to conclude my speech by expressing my full support, not only for the text but for the responsibility we are taking: a responsibility with a vote of confidence, I repeat, which we would have preferred to avoid but which we will respect and which we will not escape. If some of the Group's colleagues do not participate in this vote of confidence they will do so within the freedom of conscience that we had given since the beginning of this process, not because there is a lack of confidence in a Government to which it has been confirmed just twenty-four hours ago on the decree-law extends terms that has a great political value. If today some of those colleagues who voted on confidence will fail, it will not do so because of a lack of respect or cohesion towards this alliance or in order to stop supporting the government, but only because, by questioning their conscience, it will make the latter prevail and because the possible vote of dissent cannot be manifested before a question of trust will limit itself to not participating in the vote but it will be well guarded from voting no to the confidence of this Government, which has always supported until yesterday's day and which will continue to support. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u142	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are no longer here to talk about civil unions but to talk about nothing and I say nothing because unfortunately the law on which this House should have spoken today, the law on civil unions, has been mugged, robbed and expropriated to Parliament. I would like to remind all of you that the draft law on civil unions, the original one approved in the Commission, was a measure due because it was an obligation for the legislator, finally called upon to give concrete answers to the social changes and to the existing realities. A law due because Italy had to prove that it had finally grown up. On the other hand, we are here today to talk about anything else, about a large amendment which shows that political agreements are more important than citizens' rights and social realities and that Parliament's debate is being sacrificed in favour of and in defence of the chair. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I have a low voice. Maybe the co-workers had a little more respect. [[Call the president back.]] This law had to serve to give a strong signal of change and that is why from the beginning the 5 Star Movement has manifested its constructive spirit, contributing to the discussion and guaranteeing the prerequisites for the approval of a text worthy, just and appropriate to the times. But, in order to expose the lies and lies said and written to the detriment of the 5 Star Movement, it is necessary to remember the facts. The facts show the approach that the Parliamentary Group has maintained in the process of the Cirinna bill. We formally requested that the measure be scheduled at the Shareholders' Meeting on September 9, 2015, September 24, 2015 and October 14, 2015. The measure is in this House alone and only thanks to our vote, to our vote in favour of the Commission Justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have tabled zero amendments in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , precisely to ensure a fast path to the law, hindered in the Commission by the strong obstructionism carried out also by the New Right Center, just that party to whose blackmail the Government obeyed, falling to pacts only for poor interests of power. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Therefore, if the measure arrived in the Chamber, it was thanks to the fundamental contribution of the 5 Star Movement, the members of the 5 Star Movement in the Justice Commission and the Senator Airola [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] , that with courage, with determination, with will has carried out a bill on civil unions, because it believes in the rights [[Comments of Senator Fucksia]] , despite being a draft law of the Democratic Party. This is the demonstration that the 5 Star Movement says yes even to bills that are not proper. The majority's vote against our request to schedule the measure in the House for nine times should have alerted us to the real enemies of this measure, the public enemies who were revealed from the outset and the enemies who were kept hidden within the majority, who would soon come out in the open. And now let's talk about the catch, the trap that helped throw all the work that had been carried on. We are talking about the Marcucci amendment, which the President-in-Office of the Council used only to justify the unjustified; an unconstitutional, unacceptable and unreasonable amendment; an amendment which the 5 Star Movement, meeting in this House, has decided not to support. It was a decision - and here I want to point out it - certainly suffering, but consistent with the defence of parliamentary law that we have always supported. An amendment, gentlemen, which had no reason to exist after the withdrawal of the 4,500 amendments of the League. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Centinario]] Although there were all the conditions for doing so, the PD preferred not to withdraw the Marcucci amendment, showing that it was repulsive to parliamentary democracy. You did not have one vote cast in this House; you were torn apart and torn apart by your internal currents, you just thought of tabling amendments strozza-amendments, which were declared inadmissible by the presidency of the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]] And then you ran away to just 450 amendments, to be voted almost all by clear ballot, which can be voted on in a handful of hours of parliamentary work. There has been talk of the kangaroo for days and days; that is, of nothing, because it was judged unreasonable - and therefore unconstitutional - by the President of the Senate. That's what Italians need to know! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Respecting the defence of democracy, promoting parliamentary debate and defending the rights of civil unions could and, above all, had to be done. You should have allowed discussion in this House by voting item by article, with a clear vote and without impositions from above, neither votes of confidence nor exchange of seats. You could accept the honest and transparent votes of the M5S and you did not, because you preferred those of Alfano and Verdini. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You, colleagues, are complicit in this authoritarianism. You are allowing a President-in-Office of the Council to vote by no one, and who has been quick to put his signature on this masterpiece yesterday for propagandistic needs as well, to subtract the functions of this House, depriving Parliament of its prerogatives and tasks. Do not venture, then, to unload your responsibilities on the 5 Star Movement. You preferred to deliver the law into the hands of a party whose representative, Angelino Alfano, allows himself to say: we prevented a revolution against nature and anthropology. Shame! Shame! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] By voting for this trust you will give the Italians a law that does not unite, but that has served only to divide. What is celebrated today in the Senate House are neither civil unions, nor de facto couples, but a real marriage between the Democratic Party and Denis Verdini, founded - this is true - on fidelity and obedience (of Masonic memory), in which Verdini himself will claim food and Alfano the maintenance allowance. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Actually, after repeated loving emanations it was right and proper to marry Verdini, until the armchairs separate you! Your wedding trip, however, should be directed to the Quirinale, immediately after tonight's vote, to communicate to the President of the Republic the new majority of government! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Colleagues, Renzi Government: We will not fall into your trap, as we have not fallen into that of the kangaroo and in other thousand of your squalid tricks. The battle of the 5 Star Movement will continue in the House, where we will demand a different, democratic and transparent process. Our goal will be to truly protect citizens and citizens' rights. To a government that betrays its people, that puts confidence on issues of conscience, that approves laws that eliminate the rights of workers, that wants to affect the pensions of survivors, that it deals more with the armchairs than with the protection of citizens cannot and must not give trust! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u145	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if I didn't have the most complete insufferance towards Cicero, an eloquent and opportunist conservative of the Cesarian area, and if I saw in this House Catilina instead of any conductor, I wouldn't hesitate to say: what is the tandem that is suffering ours? Thank God I'm not Cicero or I see Catilina, so I just ask the President of the Council, the secretary and colleagues of the Democratic Party and the colleagues of the New Right Centre: how long are you going to keep doing shit about our democracy? In fact, to make fools of our democracy, by using Australian tricks or by resorting to anomalous trust, means to compress the debate, to prevent the development of politics, to prevent Parliament from legislated in absolute autonomy. And why, in your raging fury... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u146	Quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u147	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). And why, in your raging fury, which - alas - has passed from people to the founding values of our society, do you not remember that the Constitution, which is the construction of a society, which often results in the world of rights and the granting of rights, does not lend itself to political propaganda, but needs a broad discussion and a broad confrontation? Exactly as happened in this country in the 1970s, when the issues of divorce and abortion were addressed; complicated, difficult issues, but no vows of trust were put. That party, which was the relative majority party, the Christian Democracy, did not play its hegemonic role in the politics of those times, did not put trust and bend to the will of Parliament and, subsequently, to the will of the Italian people. Debate, debate, talk: this is politics. Discuss freely the ideas of one another: everything that you have denied us today. You have basically prevented - whatever you say - a peaceful debate in the Commission by presenting at the last moment a new bill, only partly similar to the previous one, of which you asked for an immediate timetable. After that, in the fear that the debate in this House might in some way affect your wishes, you prevented the debate in this House on the amendments too; first, with the so-called kangaroo. And the 5 Star Movement colleagues have done well to affirm, with their "no" to the kangaroo amendment, what is their concept of democracy, what is our concept of democracy. Here we have fought - the oppositions all together - against the various kangaroos, which you sneakyly brought us into the electoral law and, indeed, into constitutional reform. Were you afraid - as Senator Cirinna says - of secret vows? But did you not guarantee freedom of conscience to your parliamentarians? Chat, words. You have freedom of conscience, but since in secret vows you could express a consciousness different from that of your leader, then you can skip the kangaroo. And when the kangaroo jumped, all you have left is to put the vote of confidence. An absolute anomaly, trust in ethical issues, on those issues that generally belong to the transversality of Parliament, where positions are not the positions of stables or parties, but are the positions that the conscience of each of us dictates to us. You have prevented the conscience of many Members from speaking to the full, relegating them to the vote of confidence. What a strange party you are from the Democratic Party. Where were you when Senator Cirinna and the other Democratic Party experts wrote the unified text? That unified text which - from what I understand - you, with the Government's amendment, amended today. Is it a form of schizophrenia or a form of hypocrisy? Neither one nor the other: it is the demonstration that you are the party of that hashtag, Enrico, you are serene, with all that happened immediately afterwards. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We'll never turn back a millimetre, we'll never cross the stepchild adoption (I think I've pronounced it correctly): all chatter. And with the chatter you imagined you could get out of the cul de sac in which you were, through this maxi amendment. A scam text, the result of an agreement between politicians rather than among politicians at the level; the result of an agreement. A text full of errors - it has emphasized the Senator Caliendo - in which we fail to understand the reason for which the discipline of the social formation-civil union is completely different from the discipline of the social formation-couples of fact; in which, in reason of the absence of the obligation of fidelity and those affective bonds of couples recalled for the couples of fact, we do not understand what are the civil unions; that is, if it can be considered civil union a sexually unconnoted union made by two friends. This is what is written in your law. Finally, a scam text linked to a verbal scam, Senator Bonfrisco recalled it. We have taken away the stepchild adoption and colleagues from the New Right Centro are happy and happy and cry out for victory. That's not true! It is not true because, as when you write in your law text, what is allowed by the current rules remains the possibility for judges to allow special adoption even with reference to homoaffective couples, who have given course to a child with surrogate motherhood. Through the vote of confidence bypassed one of the most important problems of this bill, but in reality continue to legislate on the point without lawmaking. You didn't even have the courage to say in clear terms what you wanted. The New Right Centre has satisfied itself with this verbal pitfall to say - as President Schifani said a moment ago - that today's major amendment is a great victory for the New Right Centre. You see, the most serious thing you have done, in preventing a peaceful debate, is that you have prevented many of us from voting in favour of this bill. We would have voted in favour of a measure that was balanced, in line with our Constitution, even if it was not fully acceptable but that was the result of a serene collaboration between majority and opposition or better, between transversal sensitivity of majority and opposition on one side and on the other. This has not happened. I first heard President Schifani say that there will be absences within the New Right Center due to the so-called freedom of conscience, but don't worry. These absences will be replaced by the enthusiastic troops of Verdini. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] The enthusiasm that characterized the intervention of Senator Barani makes me think that from here soon the same will promote the erection in the square of Aulla of the statues of Renzi and Verdini in a marble representation of a civil union next to what has already erected for Bettino Craxi. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S, LN-Aut and CoR]] Today you will win thanks to Verdini, but it will be a victory for Pirro, because it is mainly Pirro's all the victories of those who relegate politics to a small horse of power instead of exalting it as the instrument for the realization of their love for our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL), LN-Aut and CoR and Senator Bignami. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u150	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would like to be able to give the political and civil sense of this measure, on which for more than two years, within all the groups, including the Democratic Party, there have been very difficult discussions, not only because of the seriousness and strength of the thesis of those who supported the law, but also because of the dignity of many of the observations of those who opposed it. I very much thank all the groups and all the senators who will be voting on the measure shortly. They mark, with their vote, a very important moment in the life of this legislature. A special thank you - I hope you will allow me - I owe it to the Senators of the Democratic Party, because this law is our law, Mr President. We have the signature of Senator Cirinna, the first signature at the bottom of the measure, and the senator has also been rapporteur. It was our intention to stop the obstruction in the Commission. It was our intention to bring the measure to this House. It was our decision not to take any more risks, continuing to wait for a clear word from the 5 Star Movement. It is our wish to come and vote today and it is ours that most of the votes with which the measure will shortly be adopted will be adopted. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I don't know if it's right to call this law "historical." I know that it will bring Italy closer to the Western democracies, which for decades have defeated homophobia, recognising homosexual couples, on the basis of the universal principle of equality, the same rights as heterosexual couples, and have offered public recognition to de facto couples. Rather, we have to ask ourselves how late we get there: it is very unique, in a society in which both the left and the right are said to be liberal. It is no coincidence that much of the political forces, which in 2007 prevented the approval of the so-called Dico, today has changed their minds, as it is no coincidence that many of those who approved Law No 40 in 2004 today recognize its wide unconstitutionality. At all times, Mr President, the history of nations is not just economic and political. It is above all culture and respect for civil rights that define the level of maturity and democracy of a country. This was also true in the 1960s and 1970s, when Italy implemented major reforms and major changes. These were the years of the nationalization of electricity, the laws on university, urban planning, the National Health Service, the Workers' Statute, the Regions, the implementation of the referendum, conscientious objection, compulsory middle school. It's a huge list, they're strategic reforms, and it's kind of like reminding them like that, all in a row. Yet, if we think of those years, first we come to think of the laws on divorce and abortion: the two great reforms that, on the civil level, have brought Italy up to date with Western democracies. These are reforms born of tight debates, great hardships on principles and values, but once they became state laws, they managed to reunite the country and make it more mature. Why did that happen? How is it possible that, after so much political struggle and violence, divorce and abortion, once approved, have even strengthened the social unity of the country? Because all over the world societies break down when rights are denied and compacted when they are recognized. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is the value of the law on civil unions and de facto couples: a law that more than two and a half million Italians have been waiting for decades. That's the truth. No matter how small the minorities are. In today's world, discrimination, even by a few, poisons civil coexistence and humiliates those who support them even more than those who suffer them. With this law, which clearly distinguishes marriage from civil union, we will have two different institutions, but the same rights: from the common surname to the obligation to cohabit, from material and moral assistance to reversibility, from the indication of the address of family life to the communion of goods. And even the parties to the civil union are recognized the same faculties as the spouse in the matter of health care and organ donation. Just as the part of civil union becomes a legitimate heir or, in case of separation or divorce, has the right to alimony. For many it was a sacrifice to have to renounce the adoption of the partner's son, a waiver to avoid the risk of losing all the law or even the danger of seeing it beat in secret vows. Experience has taught us that it would be a gamble to trust the vote of a Group to which it is sufficient to receive a phone call to change, after two years of trusting, the line and the vote. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Bencini, Fucksia and Romans Maurizio]] On adoptions, the law guarantees the work of the judiciary which will continue, as it has done so far, to protect the rights that our legislation recognises. This House will soon be debating adoptions and will do so again on the initiative of the Democratic Party. There are, however, two major issues that Parliament and politics have demonstrated that they are unable to address. At a time when science gallops, the first big question is that of the relationship between science and politics. Too many times in Parliament we have touched on this huge cultural and political network; we have done so in the debates on assisted fertilization, end-of-life and even GMOs, and now on the alleged relationship between civil unions and surrogate motherhood. We have very much neglected the extraordinary national interest in the development of scientific research and, even more so, its impact on our lives because, if scientific research must be able to enjoy all possible freedoms, it would be wrong not to consider the need to predict and regulate its repercussions on society and people. But it will never be an unhappy joke to the agencies about what is natural and what is not to solve great scientific and social issues of our time, indeed. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] Then there is the condition of homosexuality in Italian society, the degree of its acceptance, the full recognition of the right to diversity. Ours is a mature society which, in the astratecity of cultural judgment, declares itself welcoming to homosexuals, but which often struggles to recognize their full citizenship and full ownership of rights. It is these unresolved issues, the full social recognition of homosexuality and the relationship between science and politics, the two boulders that weigh on so many of our debates, which lead to delays and have also curbed civil unions in the Commission and forced the Government to intervene to prevent us from losing everything once again, but everything. The government must be thanked for its intervention and for putting the question of trust. Why can a government do more to demonstrate its political interest, as well as putting its survival at stake by asking Parliament to vote for confidence? [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] Our vote will tell the Italians that the law on civil unions and de facto couples, which is not there today, will soon be there. We know we still have to work: adoptions, end of life, so-called after us, jus soli. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] On these challenges the Democratic Party will be there with conviction and determination. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But I see an important political objective in the senators' vote on civil unions. The problem is not the physiological presence in Parliament of pros and cons. The danger is the weakening of social consciousness, the fractures in society, the fundamentalist crusades. Recognizing the rights we hold together those pieces of society that no longer ask for rights than others, but rights equal to those of others. This is what we want from this law. [[Live and sustained applause from the PD Group. Congratulations. Some Senators of the LN-Aut Group show their thumbs up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u152	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u153	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I take the floor to say, in open disagreement with the Group of Members, that with other Members I will not vote for confidence for reasons of method and merit. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Already the first are more than political, as they arise from the most open violation of the substantive rules of parliamentary law at the time when the analytical examination of the measure was prevented between the Commission and Parliament and the vote of confidence deprives many of the possibility of freely expressing their thought on individual regulatory contents. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)]] I call on my colleagues on the left to question what they themselves would have done in the event of a similar parliamentary forcing by President Berlusconi. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I express a sincere respect for my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement for having put before an objective, pursued with determination and conviction, a principle of parliamentary democracy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] GAETTI (M5S). You had to do that in the past! SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). The reasons for merit derive from a text that expert hands have drawn up according to the following jurisprudence, in order to facilitate its objective of an anthropological revolution through the acceptance of the production of children, even in the most odious forms, disenchanted by a natural act of love, the recognition of homosexual parenthood and the formation of the artificial family. That text is the son of ideological minorities that the new Ghibellines have taken to their reference here, despite the different opinion of the majority of society, as has been highlighted by all the sample surveys. The mediation between the two government parties would be good if principles were not at stake that can only be safeguarded in their entirety. The corrections could not overturn a facility built on the overlap between unions and marriage so as to offer any national and European courts the prerequisite for equal treatment of prerogatives, starting from access to adoptions. The unions, in fact, are constituted through a rite identical to that of marriage; they have the same preventative causes; they give rise to the common surname; they determine the presumption of communion of the goods; they allow the common family and - I stress - family address; they induce, in the case of inheritance, the share of legitimate today reserved for the spouse; they benefit from the survivor's pension, moreover denied to the stable heterosexual cohabitations with children because they are not exactly married. Therefore, the timid formal barriers between the two institutions are worth nothing because, as a proverb says, if it meows like a cat, it can only be a cat. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] This vote frightens me for the democratic and anthropological implications that I have described, but even more so because it tears a already fragile nation by violating widely shared principles of its people and for the government it is a responsibility of not little account. However, this is not a surrender to the worst. As it was written on many walls in my youth, it is only the beginning; the struggle continues. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Bonfrisco, Giovanardi and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u155	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u156	Mr Manconi (PD). Mr President, senators and senators, I take the floor to explain my disagreement with the Group's choice and my lack of participation in the vote of confidence. I felt that the draft law on civil unions had its inspiring motive and its deepest content and its most authentic sense in the reference to the principle of non-discrimination. But now, with the deletion of Article 5, I believe that a very serious inequality factor has been introduced in that legislation; an inequality, not only and not so much between heterosexual couples and homosexual couples, but, in particular, between children intended for adoption by heterosexual couples and children intended for adoption by homosexual couples. Behind this choice, I believe a logic and a cultural approach that intends to deny the moral instance that exists, that may exist, in the demand for civil union, which aims to neutralize the social and ethical value of that same civil union and reduce it to a mere private contract. And there is a perspective, which I would call economics, which offers a sort of exchange between concessions of certain property guarantees, hereditary, social security, fiscal and administrative in exchange for the waiver of the legal and moral recognition of civil union. But it is precisely that moral legal recognition of civil union that constitutes the beating heart of the issue and its ultimate and highest sense. I think that behind the public debate on rights there is another great issue, even more important and delicate, and it is the question of the dignity of the person and the homosexual person. Well, dignity is not, cannot be, partial, intermittent and dimiditated. Dignity is or is not. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]] In this bill, dignity appears, but it is not adequately recognized and is not adequately legitimized. For this reason, I do not support the bill in this new version and I do not participate in the vote of confidence, aware that the path to the conquest of the rights of homosexual people is just beginning. It will be a slow, tiring and arduous path, very difficult. Today, the only contribution I can make is this modest testimony of dissent. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u158	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u159	VILLARI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I rise to explain my dissenting vote by the Group. Of course, I would have preferred that the question of trust should not be raised and that we could discuss it in order to remove the many doubts generated by such a measure. Of course, I would have preferred that the obligation of fidelity should not be removed. Nor did it convince me of the reflection of President Schifani, when he called for the deletion because he more differentiated civil union, social formation, from marriage. Even listening to the many interventions, in many, even if different, I could recover something that convinced me. As I am convinced by the remark that many people have made about the risk of expropriating Parliament from its prerogatives, because it is a risk that Parliament very often takes. However, I have also said to myself - and I should like to point out to those who have stirred up this risk - that expropriating Parliament also means accepting, for example, the payment of a fine imposed on those elected in the exercise of their mandate by a directory outside the institutions, whose members are - not all of them - condemned, inadmissible and incanditable and, therefore, never elected. This is also a risk. I have therefore tried to put aside the parliamentary liturgy, which often confuses us, in order to get to the fact: just as I am opposed to the adoption of the son of the homosexual partner and to the equalization of the civil union to marriage, I certainly appreciated the pragmatism with which the government said that it is better to regulate today, in some way, civil unions, in order to initiate a recognition that has been expected for many years. Mr President, the present legislature is a constituent legislature. There are those who decide to support the reforms - this is - and I, humbly but with the conviction that I do not have to bring the brain to the cluster with respect to a rampant conformism, I will vote strongly in favour of the measure under consideration, because I think that healthy a vulnus that our society warns and asks us to heal. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u160	I would like to point out the vote on amendment 110000, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of draft law No 2081, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and Article 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. As I said at the Conference of the Leaders, I will not allow any early voting, especially since the call, scheduled for 7 p.m., has been brought forward at 5.54 p.m. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Zizza is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Zizza. SAGGESE, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Auricchio, Azzolini Barani, Battista, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bilardi, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Brozzi, Compagnone, Conti, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Zuanna, D'Anna, D'Ascola, D'Ascola, De Biasi, De Poli, Favero, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Giacomo, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Favero, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Giorgi, D'Onghia Esposito Stefano Fabbri Senators say no: Alicata, Amidei, Aracri, Augello Bernini, Bertacco, Bignami, Bocca, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bruni Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cardiello, Caridi, Carraro, Casaletto, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Comaroli, Consiglio, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, De Siano, Di Maggio Fasano, Fazzone, Ferrara Mario, Floris Gasparri, Ghedini, Gibiino, Giovanardi, Giro Liuzzi Malan, Mandelli, Marin, Mastrangeli, Matteoli, Mauro Giovanni, Mauro Mario Walter, Messina, Milo, Minzolini Palma, Mussini, Pelino, Perrone, Petraglia Quagliariello Rizzotti, Romani Paolo, Rossi Mariarosaria, Rossi Mauri Giuseppe Giuseppe Scoma, Serapina, Serapina, Sibiliafinio, Sibilia, Sibilei, Sibilia, Sibilei, Sibilia, Sibilia, Sibilia, Sibilei, Sibilia, Sibilia, Sibilei, Sibilei, Sibilei, Arac. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 110000, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of bill n. 2081, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 245 Senators voting 244 Majority 123 Favorables 173 Contrars 71]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas submitted to draft law No 2081 and incorporates draft laws nos. 14, 197, 239, 314, 909, 1211, 1231, 1316, 1360, 1745, 1763, 2069 and 2084.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u163	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have seen the official who usually follows the drafting wandering between the benches of the Presidency, who has spoken with you and the other officials. It seems clear to me that drafting proposals have not been tabled here and, therefore, I hope that the text we have voted on, right or wrong, beautiful or ugly, is what is being sent to the House of Deputies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Your wish is confirmed by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u166	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I believe that you will receive a letter at the beginning of next week, which I have sent to you, in which I would like to point out to you a significant forgetfulness contained in the text which has been voted on at this moment in time. I would like to say straight away that, as regards the social security aspects, the reversibility that this text has included is only partial because it does not concern all Italians, but only one part, that is, all those who have social security coverage by public institutions, INPS and the former INPDAP administration. Let me explain to you that all Italians who, on the other hand, have social security cover with the so-called autonomous coffers would remain out of this right. Hence, from this point of view, there are two cases: either the law provides that it applies to professors, employees, magistrates and not journalists, architects and doctors, or it is a serious forgetfulness because there is no specific coverage. This proves the method by which the Senate has legislated this time. I am sorry that the Offices did not detect such a matter, which is absolutely relevant. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Which offices are you talking about? The Senate Offices aren't involved in this. They received a text. He'll talk about other offices. MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). I am referring to the Budget Service, which should have pointed this out to the Budget Commission. I'll send you a letter in which I'll specify everything. I will send this letter to my colleagues in the House and, as far as I am competent, I will also send it to the Presidency of the Republic. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u167	I inform you that on Tuesday 1 March, at 3 p.m., the Conference of the Leaders will be convened to agree on the timetable for the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u168	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-582.ana.u169	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 1 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.34.
