ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 26 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on Thursday 28 May Giorgio Albertazzi, one of the greatest protagonists of our country's culture, theatre and art, died. We have lost an author, a director, a versatile actor, able to elegantly cross decades of show history and combine tradition and modernity. He began to become interested in acting in the aftermath of the Second World War, after having served a two-year sentence for collaborationism, for his accession to the Italian Social Republic. He debuted at the theatre in 1949 with "Troilo" and "Cressida" by Shakespeare, directed by Luchino Visconti. From there begins an incredible career, which leads him to be the interpreter of some of the most famous screenplays of our television; just remember the legendary "Jekyll" of 1969, of which he was also director, and unforgettable films like "Last year in Marienbad" of Resnais, which consecrate him in very few years as a celebrity. However, the theatre was his greatest love, the dimension and the place that were most congenial to his overflowing personality. It is almost impossible to recall the many roles, classic and modern, that he faced on stage, but I want to remember two that perhaps more than others tell the uniqueness of the actor Albertazzi. I am referring in the first place to his 'Amleto', that of 1964, directed by Franco Zeffirelli. For two months he enchanted the London audience of the Old Vic Theatre, on the occasion of the fifteenth anniversary of Shakespeare's birth, a success that led him to be the only non-English-speaking actor celebrated with a photo in the gallery of the great Shakespeare performers of the Royal National Theatre. His other great masterpiece is the theatrical transposition of "Memorie di Adriano" by Marguerite Yourcenar. In the hundreds of replicas, the border between the character imagined by the author and that lived by Albertazzi has dissolved in a unique and masterful interpretation of a man who, by now old, reflects on his life, successes, love, imminent death, the end of the empire. Allow me to make a personal note. I've seen Giorgio Albertazzi many times in the theater, appreciating his ability to go beyond acting, to be more than representing the character he was bringing on stage. Just this dowry made him one of the greatest Italian actors of the twentieth century. He was not limited to the stage, however, this dowry of his. I had the privilege of listening to him tell the most intense episodes of his life and, every time, it was deeply exciting. At the same time, what impressed me in such a strong personality was the constant curiosity about the lives and experiences of others. Giorgio Albertazzi lived a free, counter-current, provocative life, caressing the romantic idea of being able to die on stage, chasing what he himself considered the end of his life: that beauty that he claimed to be the harmony of imperfections. In representing the emotional participation of the Senate of the Republic in the mourning for the disappearance of this extraordinary artist, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute of recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u11	LIUZZI (CoR). A man of multifaceted ingenuity, Giorgio Albertazzi left a mark, a stigma in art, entertainment, Italian and European culture; a strong and cumbersome personality, a past that weighed him and was made to weigh him: the militancy in the Republic of Salò and the accusations of collaborationism. Albertazzi has never denied his adherence to the fascist ideals and myths of the fascist epic, in which a large part of Italy was revisiting and hoping, beyond the results and judgment of history. The anarchist who was in him, the rebellious spirit that informed his action, the atheism that constituted his anthropology indicated him rather as a restless man, permanently in search of the sublime vital, the idea of complete beauty, but always temporary, of stage animal and of the limelight to which he dedicated himself with maniacal commitment, taking care of everything and detail. Semiologist in his own way, he himself was the object of semiological studies: being bulky in itself means, in itself leaves signs, affects in the collective consciousness, at the theatre as on the film set, in the studios of pose and television, in the arenas and in the square. Albertazzi owes much of the patrimony of choral memories of lyricism and the Shakespearean prose that fascinate the Italians. He left in the centenary year of the Bard of Romeus and Juliet, of Troilo and Cressida and of Hamlet, to mention some of his memorable and intelligent interpretations of the lines. He was also a trainer, coach of generations electrocuted by his talent and the vivid acting of classics, as well as contemporaries. To the young actors he dedicated energies and delivered the message of the greatness of texts, readings, dramas and tragedies. It has accompanied the birth and evolution of the language, rhythms, temporal-space scans of TV in Italy; the white and black of the small screen as a metaphor of the Nation that tirelessly came out of the dark years of the Second World War and civil war; the ether that a capacitor contained in the magic box, placed in the center of tins and living rooms of our modest houses, enveloped our dream of progress. Albertazzi had the face of this dream itinerary, then changed into economic boom and widespread social well-being; mirabilia connected to monumental names such as Dante, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, but also Van Dine with his Philo Vance and Stevenson in Dr. Jekyll. Albertazzi has helped to forge culturally generations of Italians, bringing them closer to the sublime, to art and to the lasting. Today we would talk about safe use, about what does not betray, that is authentic. In the life of Giorgio we have all seen the anchor, the dock that finally appears in the port of the fogs. Turning off on May 28th in the house in the Maremma, it is as if we had pushed the button of the television, inevitably handing us - weapons and luggage - to the remote control button: a simple click that is worth an era, a cultural and social era, a resigned farewell to the hardware in order to unquestionably favour the software. We would have liked to see him on a scranno at Palazzo Madama: he would have been incomparable senator for life of a Senate corroborated by his strong personality, his immeasurable talent, his uniqueness to interpret the complexity of life, the tragicomic contemporaryity. In the summer of 2013, when the new senators were appointed for life, we were firmly hoping for the attribution of the laticlavium to Giorgio Albertazzi. Now that there is no more, the institutions all bow to the majesty of his genius and Italy pay homage to the great artist. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u14	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, today we remember a great artist, Giorgio Albertazzi, a great Italian actor who died at the age of 92. In his long life full of successes at the turn of almost a century, he replicated above all the show "Memories of Hadrian," taken from the novel very dear to him, finding an existential coincidence with that emperor at the end of his days. Albertazzi felt very much the end of the beauty that was consumed with the passing of age, the moment when the harmony between body and soul dissolves with the loss of youth that he had so loved. A melancholy note has gone to join his vitalism, to his being an actor to the end, so much so as to get on stage as long as he could, even when he was ill, Mr President, because only there he always felt like a free and alive man. He was also an actor in his private life, seductive of any kind of audience, on stage and outside. Born in Fiesole in 1923, son of workers, he told of having recited since childhood in school for the love of a teacher; therefore, with his adherence to a philodramatic, he had the beginning of his passion, of his career; career that really began only after the war, overcome the sad episode that saw him join the Republic of Salò in 1943: initiative never denied and seen as a gesture of a twenty-year-old patriotic boy who deceived himself in the possibility of a social revolution and that, among other things, in 1945 cost him the arrest and a condemnation for collaborationism (two years in prison). He was always considered a man tied to the right; he ran for office, but was not elected. And it was good for the previous speaker to say that he would probably be a great senator for life, even if in reality he was always a free man, strong in his professional skills. After a bit of a slow start, the real leap took place when in 1956 he began to pair with his Anna, also his life partner, managing for almost twenty years to be among the protagonists of the theatrical life, proposing modern classics, from D'Annunzio to Pirandello, but also contemporary authors such as Moravia. From 2003 he was director of the Theatre of Rome for five years. He was a man of passions and slashing vital even at his age: for example, after the earthquake of L'Aquila, he recited Dante among the rubble, convinced that in addition to the body it is necessary to give comfort to the soul. He said that on his passport there was an actor, but he actually loved to say that he was also the director, the screenwriter, the producer of novels for television and theatrical author. He also said: Some friends claim that my real profession is the actor. Others say I should have just written. Still others that I should never be the theatrical director again. Who knows which of these are the truly authentic friends? (Translated with Google Translate) We join the many who mourn him as one of the greatest exponents of Italian theater of all time. They come to his family and to the many friends who loved him the condolences of the Lega Nord Group and Autonomous. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u17	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, Giorgio Albertazzi was the theatre, the one I met when I was very young, when the prose was a fixed appointment of RAI. He left us, at the age of ninety-two, one of the last witnesses of an era perhaps unrepeatable in the history of culture and our Republic. He was one of the great performers, perhaps the greatest, who in the 1950s and 1960s made Italian theatre one of the most important in the world. He was curious and versatile - as we are told - and on the stage able to attend the classics with familiarity, from Pirandello to Shakespeare, but also attentive to everything that came up again in that phase of maximum ferment throughout the West. Always ready to dare, always tempted by the taste of provocation, by distancing critics and spectators, brought to the stage Sartre and Camus, but also Moravia and Calvino, with those American editions that he loved precisely for their lightness. He staged in the 1960s Arthur Miller and Vitaliano Brancati, with one of the most daring lyrics for the time, "The Ruler" which spoke of female homosexuality and for this reason was forbidden by the rigid and sexophobic censorship of those times. A few years ago, in 2009, he chose to declaim the Divine Comedy in the theatre of a city, L'Aquila, hit by such a heartbreaking earthquake throughout the country. With Italy eyed and tail Albertazzi had nothing to do with sharing; on the other hand it showed that under that dusty and thin veil there was another very lively, creative, avant-garde Italy. In those years, those of the television that worked, Albertazzi did his part bringing on the small screen numerous masterpieces of classical literature, up to an exceptional version of "The strange case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," which I believe an entire generation still remembers. In that part that Albertazzi interpreted in an exemplary way, precisely because he almost completely renounced all sorts of special effects, relying only on acting, there are those who wanted to see a reference to his biography, the reference to the adhesion in 1943 to the Republic of Salò, for which he paid directly in the first person and which in these days has often been reproached to his memory as an indelible stain. Albertazzi then made a wrong choice and I think he knew very well on his own, but that's not why he doesn't represent a great man of culture in our country and in our Republic. When after two years in prison, he never declared himself a fascist and never gave signs of nostalgia for that regime. When Almirante's Social Movement offered him a candidacy, he refused it. But neither did he deny that choice, because he knew that it had been dictated not by ignoble motives, but by an interweaving of youthful romance and a misunderstanding sense of honor. Let's remember Albertazzi and we are close to family and friends all and we do it with great respect, because he was a man who positively marked the evolution of Italian culture. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u20	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I had the privilege of personally meeting Giorgio Albertazzi on the occasion of a play he performed in my country when I was mayor. And then he gave me the chance and pleasure to have a private interview with him. On that occasion I was able to understand that I had to deal with an extraordinary man who sprung humanity and genius from all pores. The memory of Giorgio Albertazzi is that of an eclectic, revolutionary and never trivial artistic personality. He was a man who fully expressed his personality on stage, in front of an audience who knew how to excite and excite each time. He has lived in the continuous search for artistic innovation and the multiformity of theatrical expression. He was an artist of communication and interpretation, but also one of the pioneers who discovered the potential of the new media. He contributed greatly to the launch of television in the 1960s with some works and screenplays. There was the transmission "Appointment with the novella" of which he was an incomparable interpreter and, thanks to his ability to understand the potential of generalist television, he helped to launch television and make it more and more popular. The close relationship with generalist television, addressed to all, was an important part of his career as an actor and testifies, once again, how Albertazzi was a visionary intellectual and always prone to experimentation. Albertazzi played with the most acclaimed contemporary dance ensemble, the Martha Graham Dance Company, and the show was requested all over the world. Giorgio Albertazzi was one of the absolute protagonists of Italian theatrical life - his love was the theatre - and he will remain in the history and hearts of all his many spectators; an artist who has never spared himself, for the passion and love of his audience who has accompanied him since 1956, in the "Il seducere" by Diego Fabbri, where he begins to couple with Anna Proclemer, also his life partner. Albertazzi began to propose modern classics, and was revolutionary when he faced shows such as "After the fall" on Marylin Monroe, and "The Ruler" by Vitaliano Brancati. At the same time, Shakespeare, Hadrian and Dante were a constant reason for life: the show "Memories of Hadrian" represents the main theme of his last thirty years of career, when during every interpretation of the emperor he also told a little 'of himself, of how he could hear his many of the expressions and jokes of the show. And his Hadrian reached the 800 replicas. In 2004 he made history his Dante from the Torre degli Asinelli in Bologna, in front of 22,000 people. In the heart of Albertazzi there has always been Shakespeare, to the point that - as you said, Mr President - in 1964, on the occasion of the four hundred years since the birth of the Bardo, the actor debuted at the Old Vic Theatre in London in "Amleto" with the direction of Franco Zeffirelli, getting to enter with a photo in the gallery of the great Shakespeare performers of the Royal National Theatre, the only non-English-speaking actor. He was a man who lived a lot on the surface without ever being, in reality, a superficial; a great artist who gave lustre to our country, to whom we must all be grateful. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u23	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, it is difficult to describe the multifaceted and complex figure of Giorgio Albertazzi. Theatrical actor, director, also filmmaker, writer in an era in which intellectuals still represented the critical voice of this country, Albertazzi is the symbol of an Italy that has been able to create an exceptional season of great protagonists in the world of entertainment and culture, also at international level. Albertazzi, also known as King George, the true King George, worthy of being appealed so, or as a teacher, as he was often called, was however a bulky character, because - as has already been said by other speakers who preceded me - his life consists of many lights, but also of heavy shadows and - as was just mentioned - the heaviest one is certainly his youth militancy in the Social Republic, which many have not forgiven him, as well as - as he was accused of - participation in shots. Of course, Albertazzi's life was filled with poetry and theater, which are perhaps the two spheres in which his existence could best express itself. Dario Fo called him an anarchist and, with him, had shared a first cycle of lectures-history for RAI on Italian theatre. It was a cycle dedicated to the seventeenth century, the eighteenth century and the comedy of art, and together they had thought of proposing another. In this way, thanks to this cycle of lectures-theater history, they had managed to bring theatre and theatrical culture into the Italian houses, when TV had a function of elevation, dissemination of information and knowledge, which today perhaps no longer has completely. As a matter of fact, Italian TV takes its first steps together with Giorgio Albertazzi, who debuted in January 1954, reciting live the tragedy of Shakespeare "Romeo and Juliet" in his television program "La prose del friedì" (Friday's prose). The following year he inaugurated the broadcast "Appointment with the news": an appointment that became fixed on Italian TV. In 1959 he was Prince Myskin in the opera "L'idiota" by Dostoevsky, directed by Giacomo Vaccari. Then he was the protagonist of "Last year in Marienbad" in 1961. And this is just to remember a very long career, which saw him engaged in an unconventional direction of "The strange case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde" of Stevenson, until he reached the international consecration at the Royal National Theatre in London. And then, again, we found him on TV with a great classic of our Italian literature: we saw him try out in Dante. Albertazzi, therefore, gave voice and life above all - because theatre is life - to the great classics of national and international literature. In more than fifty years of career Albertazzi has been a reference point for entire generations of actors and directors, and in 1994 he founded and directed a laboratory of stage arts. We believe that, for this Parliament and this Government, the best way to commemorate the Albertazzi artist and actor of national and international theatre would perhaps be to review the recent reform that has also affected the Italian theatrical scene, which risks giving the country a theatrical sector in which will fade the social function that dramatic art has for some time immemorial - from the ancient Greeks to the present - in terms of information, dissemination of knowledge and involvement of the community in political debates important for the life of the various countries. We want to conclude this remembrance with a wish and an appeal. It seems that in the very near future, a measure of general reorganization of the live show in our country is coming. We hope that, on the occasion of his examination, the figure of the artist Giorgio Albertazzi will be properly commemorated, perhaps reviewing some critical points of the 2015 reform and also looking to the future, so that such an important aspect of the cultural and social life of a community can be adequately celebrated, supported, funded and promoted, as happens in all civil, free and democratic countries. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u26	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I think the Senate was right today to remember Giorgio Albertazzi. I am not a member of those who complain about the lack of laticlavium. Whenever a great personality of culture or other sectors fails, it is recriminated against this fact. Frankly, nothing would have added to Albertazzi's greatness an acknowledgment, which even, at times, has been granted to less deeply rooted personalities in popular sentiment and consciousness. Day Albertazzi also had an interaction with politics. I have heard some of my fellow Members mention episodes and you too, Mr President, have mentioned personal memories. Albertazzi was a man who was always open to dialogue and confrontation, never closing in the ivory tower of the great artist and intellectual, as he could have done. He has always opened himself to confrontation and dialogue and has been a curious man. Since the 1950s, Giorgio Albertazzi has tried to bring into popular culture and even, as many colleagues have already said, and also by you, Mr President, in television culture some interpretations that have just been mentioned. Among the various memories of recent days I even found the airing in the fifties of a work by Dostoevsky: a very courageous choice, perhaps favored by the fact that, since there then only one television channel, the elevated culture could be more easily conveyed in a more popular dimension, unlike today, in which the multiplication of the channels makes competition more difficult. However, the debate between quality and quantity in television communication is ancient. Albertazzi has never been portrayed by the means of modernity, even though he is an interpreter of classical culture not only Italian, but also European and international, also going back to the roots of Romanity with the work "Memories of Hadrian," which, as already mentioned, was his grandiose and also a little autobiographical interpretation. Seeing him recite to Tivoli, as it will have happened to so many of us, in the midst of the vestiges of antiquity has many times created a full suggestion and identification between the actor and the pages of history and the memories of ancient Romanity. As far as the interaction with politics is concerned, Giorgio Albertazzi has often been mentioned throughout the debate on the past, which is certainly not an opportunity to reopen. As some intellectuals and historians also recalled, he had made his youthful experience not an ideological fact, but almost an instinctive choice of a generation in a dramatic moment of confrontation and civil war for Italy. This story has often been reinterpreted in a controversial way, but it was a choice that could be defined as a danunzian spirit, for an actor who, not by chance, in D'Annunzio has often found a source of interpretation and acting. As for politics, in addition to a past that had seen him in the ranks of the Social Republic, Giorgio Albertazzi participated in the seventies in libertarian battles with the radicals, which he faced with great courage. Since his candidatures were mentioned earlier, I recall that in 1996 he ran for election in the one-name colleges, and I and others personally took care of them: it was a great honour. Unfortunately, an inappropriate region was chosen, at a time of split of the center-right - these are recurrent things - and even Albertazzi was then the victim of a division between the center-right parties and was not elected, not because his merit was not recognized, but because the facts of politics sometimes overwhelm the quality of the people. He ran, therefore, with the center-right side, but with a spirit of absolute independence and autonomy, because to play in a banal way Giorgio Albertazzi would do a grave wrong to his memory. Visconti, Zeffirelli and many other personalities crossed his path, from theatre to popular culture, through television. We also remember Hadrian's memoirs and the fact that he was a great Italian, celebrated as an interpreter of Shakespeare in England. I believe that it represents a great pride for Italian culture the fact that, even in distant contexts, in England, where Shakespearean interpretation is observed with great attention, an Italian interpreter has managed to make our nation appreciate. I conclude by recalling this in recent years: I also had the opportunity to have him hosted in initiatives of the foundation that I preside over, to remember the 150 years of Italian culture. Once I was impressed to have seen him at Versiliana - I remember that I was there for a debate - that he prepared, already in the early afternoon, as a young actor, the interpretation of the evening, as if he needed to tread the scene and prepare, even though he was already old. So, I remember his great professionalism, because he was not only a great artist and intellectual, but also a person who always took care of the way he was staged and the preparation of his students, with a high school of culture. He is a great interpreter of Italian history, of high culture, which institutions must remember and which Italian culture will certainly bring as one of its best symbols and children. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u29	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, remembering this great artist is also a cause of emotion for me - I apologise for this personal fact - because I met and embraced Giorgio Albertazzi several times behind the stage, at the end of his performances. He was in fact a Florentine and I was city councilman for culture, so I happened very often to have him hosted in the Florentine theatres and to live the emotions between the audience and with him in the after show, sometimes even at dinner, in which, with those very lively eyes, he told us what theater was and made us understand very much of what we had not caught on stage. A Florentine of Fiesole, actor and director, complex and difficult man, hypercritical and very intelligent, passionate polemicist: a great artist, of which Italy can be proud. A multifaceted artistic personality, which began with photo-romances, to move on to the television scenes, of which many colleagues have spoken, to the theater - of course - cinema - even if not too much - up to the popular and television varieties. He did not avoid going also to the shows of variety, because for him the spectacle was the center of life and of the universe. Being also in this type of show, experimenting with all the new forms of show, of course also with the television ones, was one of its characteristics. He was a very modern man, from this point of view, a stage and stage man: without the theater he could not have lived. The theatre was the center of its existence, of great love for life, even for women, the stage and its audience. A man who characterized himself because he was beautiful: beautiful voice, beautiful presence, a perfect diction, a great culture (played Dante by memory, we know), a passion for the theater that very soon transformed him into a star as well as a great actor. The love for the stage was born in a theater of the sixteenth century above Florence where, still a student of the high school "Michelangelo" (Michelangelo), someone invited him to recite. And then he was in the villa of Bernard Berenson, the great art critic, and there, in the villa "I Tatti" which today hosts the European University, he began to observe the great world that passed from that international villa; a villa where young Albertazzi peered from afar, fascinated, the great characters who passed through it. Then he would also become the protagonist of this world. You have all spoken of the experience he made at the age of twenty and the fascination that fascism exercised over him, overwhelmed by the propaganda of those intellectuals, starting from D'Annunzio, who traced the ideology of that political movement. The twenty-year-old Albertazzi was involved and also paid a high price with the prison, but you have already said so and so I do not hold back on this. It was also his characteristic, his strength - as my colleague Gasparri said - that he had never denied the choices made as a young man, even if they were choices that must be framed in that particular situation. Even later, despite having this sort of matrix that in fact has always maintained, he made other particular choices. Let's remember: he was the road companion of the radicals in the battles for abortion and divorce, then candidate for politics with the center-right in 1996 so, in fact, I don't know how I could define it, even from private conversations. I'd call it a kind of right-wing structural anarchist, that's what I'd say. One who was still a bit overcritical about everything. I can think of that Leautaud, of whom he masterfully staged the diary we remember. Then I want to remember Luchino Visconti. Albertazzi left with him at the Maggio musicale fiorentino in 1949, you already said so, and this was the beginning and also the way to interpret the theater because an encounter with Luchino Visconti changes your life, and those who had the opportunity to work with him naturally know that it is an experience that changes and so much. Before concluding, President, I would like to talk about another peculiarity: he loved Florence, loved her very much and as many children of Florence had a relationship of love-hate with the city. This often happens to the great Florentines and it doesn't matter to quote them. Now, still alive, there is Zeffirelli with whom we will make a great project on Florence, also thought of a bit by Albertazzi, that is to say a great school of performing arts right at He loved the theater "La Pergola" which in 1966, when there was the flood, was flooded and then flew down from Milan and wanted to do a show in the city and because "La Pergola" in the days of the flood was submerged by the waters, he went to the theatre of the Oriolo. He wanted to make a show at that time and did it at the Oriolo Theatre with a lot of people, with the Florentines. When, the following year, he went to the inauguration of the new Pergola, he said: "The theatre for the Florentines is not only an escape, but is, as it should be, a necessity. That "La Pergola" has risen so soon is a sign of the great vitality of the Florentines. It's like they said, "Theatre first." And that means a lot, it means that theater is man. That is why it resists everything, not only other forms of entertainment such as cinema and television (...), but also wars, great calamities, bad actors, bad authors, subsidies and technocracy. Therefore, reopening "La Pergola", for us Florentines, is not only another act of the reconstruction of the city, but it is above all a way of saying that, despite everything, we too, alive and well, to say our own. I would like to conclude with a last sentence by Maurizio Scaparro, a great artist and a great director who has directed many times Albertazzi. Scaparro says: For him to recite was life itself, a kind of necessary medicine. His face, his body posture, his voice changed, showing a force that seemed impossible behind the scenes. For me it was the symbol of that constant attention that every man of our time should have for the future of the theatre. And for his need in our lives. In this he was modern. Modern for freedom, enthusiasm and curiosity, which made him young, indeed, ageless. In conclusion, I respond to my colleague Montevecchi of the 5 Star Movement, who asks that our best tribute be to bring as soon as possible to this Assembly the new Act on Show. I very much agree with that. The government is setting it up. He'll soon be in our classrooms. I really hope that our best homage, Mr President, to a great actor, even a director, and a great artist can be a beautiful actor's law that honors him. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u32	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have often, like half an hour ago, remembered an important man who left a mark in this country, Giorgio Albertazzi. And I also happened to remember people I may not have met or only met in part and of whom, perhaps, I read some passages in the newspapers. Today, on the other hand, I am remembering a friend, an Italian politician, a Member of Parliament. And it is still up to me, Mr President, for a very simple reason. Because I met him in the Chamber of Deputies in the 16th legislature with other colleagues. I am talking about Gianluca Buonanno, Mr President, a Member of Parliament, a friend, a Dad, who left us a huge void Sunday afternoon, after a car accident. I didn't think I had words for him. I couldn't think of how to deal with such an intervention. Perhaps because the words would have been so many, so many that they could not condense them into a brief memory. But on Sunday, Mr President, a tam tam also on social media (an instrument that, among other things, Gianluca used with a certain frequency) has enabled all of us to experience first the surprise and then the wonder, the dismay and the unbelief. He died in an accident. Aboard the car there was also his partner, who is hurt and to whom we wish a speedy recovery, as well as those who were on board the buffered car. Gianluca, we met you the first days of the 16th legislature and immediately we said: what kind of Happy Birthday! Funny, pungent, really realistic. A practical man, passionate boy, with spirit and very nice; practice, sympathy and passion that he put in all the things he did, especially when he did politics. Man from making colorful, who brought to the forefront of Italian politics his being, his system of doing and, given the thousands of messages of mourning and what has happened in these days to remember him, I would say also in everyday life. A man of temperament, would say some boxing reporters, a man really with a straight back, a man who has known, in his various and intense political experiences, as mayor, as parliamentarians, as MEPs, to have a very particular line, Mr President, that has sometimes led him to put politics in a position to question himself too. I remember well that he had two watches on his wrist, one on the right and one on the left, and the first times a question was asked him on a certain occasion: "Gianluca, why do you have two watches?" The answer was always that: One of these watches is my dad's: I wear it to remember it. This was our friend, our companion of many battles. Fifty years, Mr President, the beauty of life; an accident along the foothills last Sunday afternoon. Incarnate the ruspante soul of the League, its being above the lines. Our Federal Secretary Salvini recalled this by wishing a good trip to a loyal, courageous, concrete, honest and generous person, always among his people, both as mayor and as parliamentarians, as a free man and as a simple person. A thought to her partner - as I said before - and to her baby Nicola. Yet, Mr President - I say this with great regret on behalf of the entire League Group and not only - someone has rejoiced at his death; shameful phrases have appeared on social networks, worthy of people who have no dignity. I feel sorry for these people, Mr President; but you, Gianluca, will not take care of them and neither will we. Rest in peace, my friend, rest in peace, our friend. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u33	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] I call on the House to observe a minute's recollection in memory of the MEP Gianluca Buonanno. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u36	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too agree with the words of condolence that have just been heard. I remember with great emotion last year, when, on a trip to Berlin for the final of the Juventus Champions' Cup game, I met him and his son, a delightful boy of thirteen years; both bright and passionate Juventus fans. Gianluca Buonanno has always been a passionate parliamentarians: we all remember his battles. He was a very beloved mayor, very close to all of his. I believe, therefore, that I can express the thought of the whole Group of Forza Italia of closeness to his child Nicola and his family. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u39	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, there are times in our lives when we meet people with whom we are always fighting, with whom we do not agree on anything, with whom it always seems that we are at a break-up point. It happens, and politics happens very often. Happy New Year was one of those people I think I've had the most fight with in my life: we were fighting on television, we were fighting in the House in the House, and there really couldn't have been anyone further away from my way of seeing life. Yet these quarrels, this different way of thinking, this very limited way of manifesting his political ideas, even through very often questionable symbolic exercises, hid a basically good man. And so I want to remind him: a political opponent, a person with whom he disagrees and with whom it was very difficult to get along, however a mayor, so a person who sought a root in his life, very happy to be a European Parliamentary. Last time I saw him was in Fiumicino. He was happy, smiling and saying, It's a wonderful place, it's my way of doing politics, it's my place, nothing to do with Italian institutions. In short, he was a passionate man; one could not share his ideas, but at least there was passion, and this passion hid goodness (looking at other political figures, who may be cold and compassionate and hide evil). That's why I want to remember him, and I want to join in the mourning of the family and colleagues of the League. I also want to remember him with a bit of affection and regret, because behind his work there was truth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u42	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, my intervention will be very dry and simple. In the memory of people who leave us very often he indulges in emphasis and amplification of feelings and thoughts by the suffrage of his soul. I shall just say one thing, partly recovering what Mrs De Biasi has just said. The sense of political passion was the distinctive element of my colleague Buonanno, who left us so bloody and sudden. A political passion that, in an absolutely original way, has been expressed also through gestures, acts and modalities that have entered - so to speak - overpoweringly in the chronicle of politics of recent years. Political passion was his distinctive trait. The intellectual honesty and the commitment given with great consistency and diligence I believe were the distinguishing figure of a man, a friend, a parliamentarians who must be remembered not because he left us so sudden, but because he represented an original model, which is even appreciated and remembered with regret by those who were his most severe opponents and who today, certainly not by celia, join the friends of the League to express the thought of mourning, of consternation and closeness. These thoughts, on behalf of the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, I intend to express my heartfelt and sincerely, addressing them not only to the family, deprived in such a violent way of an important affection, but also to the friends of the League. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, since the competent standing Commission has not yet completed the examination of draft law No 2362, let us turn to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u44	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1932. The rapporteur, Senator Cucca, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we are talking about something that has become particularly difficult in this last period because of the events that have taken place in this first glimpse of 2016 and which have brought to the fore the news - as I said - extremely serious events perpetrated against local administrators. This draft law originates, as is well known, from the work carried out by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators, which, set up at the beginning of this legislature, concluded its activity on 26 February 2015. At the end of the proceedings, your President, Senator Doris Lo Moro, presented the report, which - I would like to remind you - was adopted unanimously. I also think it is necessary to thank both the President of the Commission of Inquiry and all its members for their valuable work on this thorny subject. The draft law therefore transposes the results of the investigation and envisages some changes in the law in criminal matters. In the course of the examination in the contact person, these corrective actions were defined in a more precise way. I think it is also useful and necessary to remember that this text of law, which bears the first signature of Senator Lo Moro, has been signed by all political forces, who have fully adhered to the objectives contained in the provision. (Applause from the right) Therefore, a significant push towards a rapid approval of the draft law in question also comes - as I said - from the increase in cases of threats and intimidation to local administrators since the beginning of 2016. In particular, I remember that in recent weeks (the last acts against the local administrators have occurred in my island against an outgoing mayor on 4 June, the evening before the vote) all the media have emphasized the phenomenon in question that is spreading from the North to the South of the peninsula. I would also remind you that the Government is being asked to implement all possible security measures - and I will return to that at the end of my speech - and to Parliament to examine and approve the bill quickly. I therefore hope that after the fruitful work carried out by the Justice Commission in the context of a peaceful climate of cooperation between the majority and the opposition, the Assembly will also be able to proceed quickly to the approval of the draft law under consideration, in order to give a concrete response to the demands of justice and protection, carried out by the local administrators, who at this moment feel objectively under siege, and to the local communities involved in such criminal acts. Turning to the substance of the text in question, with regard to acts intended to obtain a measure of its own favor or to impede the issue of a measure of its own, as well as those intended to provoke the resignation of one or more local administrators, in view of the obvious multi-offensive nature of such conduct (in addition to the damage to the individual integrity of the local administrator, including that of the good performance of the public administration and the internal personality of the State), Article 1 of the draft law proposes a modification of the offence of violence or threat to a political, administrative or judicial body, as referred to in Article 338 of the Criminal Code, aimed at adapting this case to the protection requirements specifically considered and referred to herein. The original proposal of the draft law under consideration actually provided for an amendment to Article 338 of the penal code, in the sense of including as a crime the threat or violence directed at individual members of a political, administrative or judicial body; this in order to finally make applicable an incriminating forecast that has not actually been so far, precisely because until now we were talking only about the political, administrative or judicial body. In the light of the debate in the Commission, a further amendment was approved, specifying that the threat to individual members of a public authority of a collegiate nature is also a crime, when the same individual members operate outside the collegiate body. By intervening on Article 338 of the Criminal Code, the aggravating circumstances provided for in Article 339 of the Criminal Code are also applicable to the facts in question, which provides for an increase in punishment if the fact is committed by the use of weapons, by a misrepresented person, by several persons gathered, with anonymous writing, in a symbolic way or using the intimidating force deriving from secret, existing or supposed associations. The new regulatory system would allow to use for most of the intimidating acts, and in particular for those that constitute the central nucleus of the phenomenon, a criminal case that can be processable of office, with an edittal penalty (the imprisonment from one to seven years) that would allow the use of precautionary measures, as well as the interceptions and any other means of proof and collection of evidence. Article 2 of the draft law amends Article 380 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, including in the same the reference to Article 338 of the Criminal Code - as amended by the Commission in the referee - among the cases for which compulsory arrest is provided in flagrante of crime. In relation to retorsive intimidating acts, i.e. those committed following the adoption of a measure by a local administrator, on the basis of the inadequacy of the general charge referred to in Article 61 (10) of the Criminal Code, Article 3 of the text under consideration introduces Article 339-bis of the Criminal Code, which provides for a new circumstance with special effect, where a certain type of crime (listed and identified in the Article) is committed against a local administrator because of the fulfilment of the mandate, duties or service. I should like to make a few specific points in this connection. Meanwhile, in the Commission reference has been made to Article 594 of the Criminal Code, because in the meantime the crime referred to in that article (injury) has been decriminalized, so it has been expunged from the text. However, I would also like to point out that, following the wording of Article 3, discussions have arisen which, in my opinion, originate from a perhaps hasty reading of the text itself, the scope of which was absolutely clear in the original text. However, precisely because inaccuracies have arisen, certainly not accurate reasonings have arisen, I have also tabled an amendment which simply has the intention of better explaining the content, in my opinion, already very clear, of Article 3 and therefore of finally clarifying its scope as regards the crime of defamation, which is one of those covered by the introduction of Article 339-bis of the penal code. Some have feared that the charge may be applied whenever the crime of defamation, including through the press, is committed against a member of a political, administrative or judicial body. Obviously, this reading is completely unrelated to the context and the actual content of the norm I am talking about and is, in my opinion, misleading and instrumental. In fact, the rule explicitly provides that, in order to be able to apply the charge provided for in Article 3, it is essential that the conduct, even the defamatory one, has a retrosive nature: to give a practical example, think of the journalist who carries out a defamatory conduct against a public administrator, who for example ordered the demolition of the house of that journalist or another subject. The nature must therefore be absolutely retrosive: it is emphasized that a quid pluris is necessary in the behaviour of the agent with respect to the conduct contemplated in the defamation, which is constituted by the specific intent of retaliation for some act carried out by the administrator. It has nothing therefore to do with the common defamation by means of the press, which is not contemplated at all and remains regulated by the current legislation. The reference to such an interpretation is, in my opinion, completely detached from the text of the rule we are examining. The discussions that have arisen are, in my opinion, totally useless since this is the case, if it is true the old brocardo in claris non fit interpreted, the classic case: there is nothing to interpret because the text is absolutely already exhaustively explained in the best way. However, I have tabled this amendment, which, as I said, is absolutely and exclusively explanatory to the will of the legislator, and it has been done precisely to clear the field from any misunderstanding. But of course we remain open to discussion and discussion also in view of another aspect: we must bear in mind that in the Commission justice to the Senate, even if we are not examining it these days, a text has come from the House that reviews the whole institution from defamation. Even in the light of these facts, we are therefore open to any comparison which would allow the adoption of this measure to be carried home with the same cohesion as had been shown both in the work of the Commission of Inquiry and in the work of the Commission of Justice. I repeat this in order to clear the field of misunderstandings: there is no change in the crime of defamation through the press. Someone claimed that the crime of defamation was punishable by the press, if committed in front of a member of a political, administrative and judicial body, up to nine years. That's not true. The text does not provide for it, it has never foreseen it, either in the original text or in the amendment: it is simply behaviour - I repeat - that requires a quid pluris, that is, of the backward nature. Finally, I repeat that the outcome of the debate in this House will try to find a framework for a solution that is shared by all, as has been the case up to now for the whole measure, which - I repeat - responds to a need for justice and protection that is extremely widespread throughout the national territory for the unfortunate facts that are now repeated weekly. Finally, with regard to the hypotheses of intimidating acts whose recipients are not local administrators, but those aspiring, it has been proposed - with Article 4 of the text under consideration - an intervention to amend Article 90 of the decree of the President of the Republic of 16 May 1960, No 570 (the only text of the laws for the competition and the election of the organs of the municipal administrations), aimed at extending the sanctions provided for there (reclusion from two to five years and fine from 600,000 lire - there is still the old wording in lire - to 4,000,000 lire) also to all those who, with threats or acts of violence, hinder the free participation of others in the administrative electoral competitions. In wishing for a rapid approval of the measure that occupies us, in order to give a concrete answer to the need for protection manifested as a result - I have already emphasized it but it is still useful to reiterate - of the innumerable attacks of which the local administrators have remained victims, I think it opportune to invoke a further intervention of the Government that plays a role of prevention and deterrent. I am referring to the need for greater control of the territory by the forces of order, to be implemented - a requirement proposed by many local administrators who have remained involved in these very serious events - even with a greater diffusion of video surveillance systems. We know that this government has shown great sensitivity to these issues. Our Minister for the Interior has spoken on several occasions and has assured us that there will be action by the Government in this direction. I am therefore convinced that this sensitivity expressed by the Commission towards the issues we are dealing with will also be able to take proper account of these demands which, I believe, would strongly contribute to preventing the repetition of these very serious intimidating acts that have led not only to the fire of cars, the destruction of homes and bomb attacks, but, in more than one circumstance, to deaths which, even today, claim justice. With this measure we will give a concrete and serious response to all the families who pay close attention to its approval and to all the administrators who have long been waiting for a concrete signal that we in this House are giving today. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Ascola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u46	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting here today to discuss an important bill, which stems from the extraordinary work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators, chaired by Senator Lo Moro, the first signatory of the bill, whom I warmly welcome and thank. If there is a theme that is particularly dear to my heart and for which I feel the obligation to fight, this is precisely that of the protection of local administrators who every day, stoically, perform their civic duty in the more than 8,000 Italian municipalities. Unfortunately, the Commission's report has revealed some uncomfortable figures, which have returned the photograph of a country in which the representatives of the institutions are constantly threatened. In fact, almost three episodes of violence or intimidation are recorded every day. One hundred and thirty-two murders in the last forty years, ten in the last decade alone, are the numbers of a long and silent war that mayors, city councilors and councillors have been fighting for years. Renata Fonte, Crescenzo Casillo, Gaetano Longo, Pasquale Cappuccio, Giuseppe Valarioti, Marcello Torre, Domenico de Maio, Angelo Vassallo, Pasquale Grillo and many others were victims of this war. Their names have ended up in newspaper chronicles and even today, after decades, we remember them as civilian martyrs of our country. But there are thousands of stories of threats and intimidation that do not end tragically and, therefore, remain unknown, without reaching the attention of the public, both because it lacks the courage to denounce, and because the legislative instruments have, so far, been too weak towards criminals. The local administrators are the outpost of the institutions on the territory, the litmusol map of a relationship between citizens and state not always easy, nor completely transparent. There are both punitive and preventive threats and attacks against them, only in this way is it explained why former administrators are affected, punished for what they have or have not done, both political and candidates, warned beforehand about the consequences of their actions. And if it is true that much of the violence is linked to organized crime, behind so many intimidation there is also other: economic interests, bad business, corruptive phenomena always sadly to the news and personal interests of various kinds that move in the increasingly complex and complicated reality of the local territories. Giovanni Falcone, of whom we recalled the anniversary of his death on 23 May, already had a very clear idea of these modalities. He knew well that the usefulness gained in the relationship with the corrupt politician translates into hijacked contracts, abuses of building permits, undeclared and protected jobs, concessions that systematically interfere with public administrative activity, which, by virtue of the mafia political exchange, is oriented to satisfy the interests of few (friends of friends) rather than the pursuit of the general and public interest. We have so much evidence of this, first and foremost at environmental level. It is the case of the hydrogeological failure with the wear of the ground, landslides, landslides and floods due to the abandonment of the territory and the lack of care of the slopes; of the wild cementification without rules, with houses not built according to anti-seismic norms and with poor materials so as to crumble at the first shock of earthquake; of the state infrastructures placed on slopes so unstable to break at the passage of the trains; of the entire Countries developed in riverbeds that, with the abundant rains, they see running in their roads cubic meters of water causing losses of human lives. Finally, therefore, Parliament has decided, with the guilty delay of the whole policy, to intervene in defence of its representatives. The Commission has confirmed the underestimating of the phenomenon and the inadequate legislative response in terms of both repression and prevention. For this reason, I welcome the amendments proposed by the bill, which will allow for a more penetrating and effective judicial action, the use of all the most important instruments of investigation, the general aggravating factors and the arrest in flagrante of crime for those who will suffer from intimidation or retaliation, both against local administrators and candidates for elected posts. I therefore hope that this will be a first step so that the State can ensure that the national institutions are more physically represented alongside local administrators. The future step will have to be to strengthen programmes for the prevention and control of the territory by the police, whose staff, as we know, are not adapted to the needs. It will then be necessary to establish a national database for the detection of intimidation incidents and their census, fed and shared by the various actors involved in the repression of such crimes. The resignation, individual or collective, of municipal administrators, especially when they give rise to the dissolution of a municipal council, should also be subject to investigation, especially if it is considered that a significant proportion of the resignation from office is due precisely to the intimidation suffered. Greater coordination between central and peripheral government, judiciary and territorial authorities will also have to be achieved, enabling the local administrator to make use of other competences in a framework of absolute transparency and to restore confidence in representative institutions. The important responsibilities that end up falling on the mayor - in the management of the territory, in tenders, in the granting of licences and subsidies, in the waste cycle or in the management of the confiscated goods - make it necessary to simplify the legislation in order to clarify, even in the face of the public, the competences of the political representatives and those of the administrative apparatus and make procedures more streamlined. In the field of procurement, administrative responsibilities should be attributed to other institutional levels, placed higher, especially in order to relieve smaller municipalities, which are too often in difficulty with very strong powers. I would like to mention, with great regret, another subject, which is also very important and with sometimes tragic implications. In fact, in recent years, alongside threats and intimidation of criminal and mafia origin, the life of administrators has been put in danger by desperate people, who have vented their anger at the loss of work or income, on those who, closer to them, thought he was an exponent of the caste. A rage that, unfortunately, has been reflected in bad political management and in that long series of scandals and robberies in which politicians and public officials are involved, which produces violence and distrust. A real threat to democracy that we can only defeat by acting in a straight and transparent manner. On the other hand, my fellow Senators, only if we make serious efforts to present to the citizens lists and candidacies that are independent, far from any link with organised crime and evil, will we be able to recover that crisis of confidence that has hit the Italian political class. In a general context of mistrust in politics, anyone who has even been touched by events that can bring him closer to the mafias should take a step back for the good of all. I will conclude by saying that I wanted to mention the names of some local administrators killed because fortunately they remind us that there is not only a policy that is often described as collusive and conniving, but that there have been and there are women and men who know how to interpret, until the extreme consequences, the true sense of political and civil commitment. The intimidation is against the administrators for good, those who do not bow to any will, and only to a very small extent gets in the sights of those who did not comply with the agreements. I note this to say that not all politics is the same. I hope that the draft law under consideration will provide greater protection for administrators throughout Italy, so that they can carry out their work peacefully, honestly and in favour of all citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u48	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today in this House is of historic importance if only we consider the great battles, which have been waged for decades now, against the mafias and for the development of our community. It further exploits the knowledge acquired in recent years, also thanks to the contribution of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators. We know very well that, as was also evident during the hearings conducted during the Commission's work, more and more people who have chosen to run or administer the various municipalities on which our Republic is founded feel a feeling of loneliness or distance from the State in the free exercise of the power of representation or government of a local autonomy. This is because the forms and connotations of pressures or intimidation can be the most varied and obscure. This feeling, which is not always accompanied by striking acts, produces disengagement, distrust and resignation not only in those who administer, but, in general, in the deepest fabric of our communities, who demand from the State the guarantee of full democratic exercise in absolute freedom and security. The administrators who don't fold are many: women and men under fire who often, in silence and without the news passing the page of the local news, are forced to suffer aggression or violence only because they do not want to indulge the particular interests, often illegal, or because they try to counter the penetration of crime in the institutions, demonstrating good governance and a strong ethical duty. The history of our country - not only of the Mezzogiorno, unfortunately - also tells us of destroyed lives, burned cars and families affected because the mafias always try to challenge the state. The 2014 Report "Administrators under fire", published by the association "Public Notice," confirms the fact that it is the South with the islands, with 74 percent of cases, the geographical area where public administrators and members of the public administration continue to suffer the intimidating phenomenon between direct and indirect threats, often with substantial impunity and repetition of acts of violence; they follow the North with 14 percent and the Centre with 12 percent of cases. We cannot afford to underestimate the phenomenon in any way, either in terms of the search for motives or the search for more appropriate regulatory action. Only a few days ago, on the occasion of the seventieth anniversary of the founding of the Republic, President Mattarella expressed a strong call to the absolute priority of an incisive contrast to the mafias, highlighting how the effectiveness and credibility of public action are based on respect for legality, service ethics and transparency and that there is a great firmness against any attempt to enslave offices and institutions to personal interests, favoritism and evildoing. Transparent politics in many of our realities is certainly risky, because it requires civil passion and individual responsibility. And there is one further aspect that deserves to be deepened: too often the scourge of the "improper mediation" of politicians, the temptation to transform citizens' rights into favours granted only to some and denied to others, for the exclusive purposes of consent, is fueled by a bad policy, which very often comes into contact with criminal organizations, creating perverse intertwines in exchange for recruitment, pilot tenders, licences, grants or soft contributions. In this context, the economic crisis, which feeds anxieties and uncertainties, conditions of fear and needs, makes the local self-government, already burdened by financial difficulties and increasingly scarce resources available, the first interlocutor of the citizen in search of protection and support. In order to break this circuit, in parallel with the specific changes to the criminal rules envisaged by the draft law, it is necessary to continue, from a systemic perspective, on the one hand, to work to promote a good policy oriented to the general interest and, on the other hand, to improve the quality of public administration, giving new centrality to transparency and administrative efficiency. The great novelty of the bill that we are examining, however, lies precisely in the courageous attempt to create a strong barrier, which prevents any kind of contact or relationship between groups of criminal pressure and local administrators, giving a vision finally united to the intimidating phenomenon, both in terms of prevention and repression. To date, in particular in areas of greatest vulnerability, which are the subject of potential mafia interest, the existing legislation has shown all its limitations, despite the presence of concrete indicators of danger, which undermine the free determination of representative democracy. In conclusion, the great challenge of radical change that a reformist policy must be able to achieve is precisely this: freeing up the potential of society and the economy by effectively countering mafias and illegality. With this new regulatory intervention we are making, with extraordinary evidence, a legislative choice in favour of justice and freedom. Moreover, the quality of our democracy will be better if we can really protect those city councillors or administrators who honestly try to exercise the mandate received from their citizens through the democratic vote. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Lo Moro, one year after the conclusion of the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators, we are called upon to approve this draft law, which introduces legal changes in criminal matters. In particular, Article 338 of the Criminal Code, which provides for the offence of violence or threat to a political, administrative or judicial body, is amended in order to adapt this case to the requirements for the protection of local administrators. This phenomenon is a very serious reality, a vulnus to the efficiency and effectiveness of administrative action. Living together with the fear of losing our lives by public officials, in the exercise of their duties and functions, causes damage to the overall holding of the country system. Magistrates and administrators, such as city councillors, city councilors and mayors, are subject to intimidation in some areas of the country and are often in a position to suffer serious acts of abuse and creeping blackmail so much that their family members fear for their own safety. All this translates into social insecurity, territories marked by illegality, flight of capital and intelligence, removal of investors from the communities targeted by providings, administrative instability, mortification of politics as the field of exercise of charity, according to the enlightening words of Paul VI. Inevitably the territories marked by the phenomena of intimidation, present in Puglia, Campania, Calabria, Sicily and in vast areas of the Centre-North, are lagging behind of development and drastic decrease of gross domestic product. Innumerable are the acts of inspection union at the Chamber and Senate with which these situations are emphasized and protection measures are required. This legislative intervention certainly constitutes a step in the direction of a more rigid and determined discipline to the fight against these despicable crimes, indirectly aimed at the internal personality of the State. However, this time too, we must stress that the fact of extending a criminal offence, providing for aggravating and increasing penalties are not, alone, sufficient measures, in practice, to combat effectively, but above all to prevent the commission of criminal offences, if they are not accompanied by the certainty of the penalty, that is, by the certainty of the provision of the criminal penalty. In fact, the foundation of a modern legal system is constituted, not by the coercive aim of the rules, but even before by their preventive character, that is, by the "certainty of the law" which is indispensablely declined in the "certainty of the penalty" which is the true deterrent. Therefore it is not superfluous to remember that this is the terminal disease of our country. This is the cause of the ineffectiveness of our criminal system and we must be aware of this. It is not enough to write the laws, even if they are good laws, if then those who delinque know that in any case will remain unpunished and the attempt of the State to restore legality, legitimacy, care for freedom, rights and duties will be vain. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u52	Madam President, the first question we all have to ask ourselves is whether or not it is necessary to intervene in this matter in order to combat criminal actions against local administrators. I believe that I am firmly convinced of the need for legislative action. On the other hand, I do not agree with the technique used to achieve the result. It is well known that Article 338 of the Criminal Code provides for the configuration of a crime when there is an action of violence or threat against a political, administrative or judicial body. From a case law dating back to 1954 and reaffirmed by the Court of Cassation in judgment No 5611 of 2012, the hypothesis of a threat to a member of the political, administrative or judicial body is also considered to be included in Article 338. In particular, the Court of Cassation affirmed the existence of the case in question in a case in which the threat addressed to the mayor did not concern personal relations but determinations dictated by the municipal body - and here I also come to the effect of which I will say later and of which the rapporteur spoke - and, in this case, the decision to set up the municipal body as a civil party in the trial against the accused. So, in this case, the defendant, having known that the entity in question would be a civilian party to the trial, had put in place a back-up threat against the mayor. 18.16 p.m. (Follows CALIENDO). Therefore, the objective of the Court of Cassation is not the natural person, but the political body, and it goes back in time to the clarification of the case according to which, for the existence of the crime in question, it is not necessary that the threat be made in the presence of the collegiate body gathered, whereas the conscious will by the agent to direct the threat to a body with the aim of preventing or disturbing its activity is sufficient, so that also the threat addressed to one of its members assumes decisive importance. The Court recalls in this regard a judgment of 1954. I do not deny that there is another case law of the Court of Cassation, which I have never shared, which does not consider possible the configuration towards the individual belonging. If we go today to insert a rule that also refers to the individual components, we go to recognize the foundation to that jurisprudence that denied the possibility to configure, with a possibility of intervention also on the procedures in progress. And this is something I don't want. Therefore, I have used Article 336 of the penal code to insert the same same rule as the text of the bill. It is not a political question, but a technical question for which, in Article 2, I propose, with my amendment, to introduce compulsory arrest in flagrante when the matter is committed against the component of a political body. To adopt this technique, dear rapporteur, means to avoid any problem of interpretation and above all means to avoid that we can say that the current Article 338 does not apply to threats to individual components, giving reason to that part of the case law which I context and which I believe you also contest. The second aspect concerns precisely that sentence which I have quoted, which makes us understand the logic of the charge referred to in Article 3. Taking into account the amendment proposed by the rapporteur to give him some content, writing that the course of action must be retortative, I would like to invite you to read the Commission text, which is essentially identical to my amendment, which refers to those who commit the event in order to obtain, hinder or prevent the release or adoption of any measure, including legislation, or because of the issue or adoption of the same measure. Let us examine these two last two nouns. The first, the release, may be negative. Therefore, it was acted in terms of threat, for retaliation, against those who did not recognize that measure, or it recognized it in a negative way or it was constituted civil part, as in the example, to which I referred, of the judgment of the Court of Cassation. That course is already planned and cannot be a new course of action. The only crime that is not foreseen is that referred to in Article 595 of the Criminal Code: the crime of defamation. But if the connotation is violence or threat, then in that case it is expected anyway. So I wonder: do we have to adopt a rule that strengthens the contrast with those who act against local administrators or, for a matter of principle and not of technology or politics, do we have to adopt a measure that will give rise to a series of distonic interpretations? The interpreters will be able to say that if Parliament, in the face of a position of the Court of Cassation which already recognized the applicability of Article 338 to threats to individual members, said that it must be inserted today, it implicitly denied that interpretation of the Court. This is what worries me most: to legitimise an interpretation that we had tried to oppose. I wonder why it is not possible to take these aspects into account. And here I trust, rather than in mediation, in the skill of the President of the Commission, that it will take account of these aspects, that they will be incorporated into a system and that they will alter the possibilities of a very correct interpretation. I wonder if it is possible to find a technically right solution. I have not even tabled the deleterious amendment to Article 3, precisely because I wanted a serious, clear and precise debate to be opened here. We are for the approval of a rule that has effective deterrent effect, that does not create problems of interpretation by the jurisprudence and, at the same time, guarantees an effective punishment of certain behaviors. Therefore, even from the point of view of the sentence, the assessment under Articles 336 and 338 of the Criminal Code does not change and, instead, changes from the point of view of the maintenance of this hypothesis, which is reinforced by the compulsory arrest intended precisely for the members. Aggregation, as formulated, is already foreseen in the conduct. You cannot think of making an assault that constitutes the same course of action, thus providing for a dual possibility of condemnation. For this reason, Mr President, I trust that there is a chance for everyone to work towards a technically correct text and that it really serves as a deterrent to these behaviors, which we all criticize. [[Applause from Senator Gasparri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u53	Senator Ferrara Elena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, as the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, has pointed out, the draft law stems from the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators, of which I have been honored to be a member, which concluded its activity in February 2015 and produced the bill of which I am co-signatory. Guided by the president, Senator Doris Lo Moro, we have verified to what extent the current legislation was consistent with the problems analysed and we have proposed legislative and administrative solutions in order to achieve the most appropriate prevention and the most effective contrast to the phenomenon, in order to ensure the best and free exercise of the functions attributed to local authorities and administrators. I would remind you that the Commission has launched its own investigation into the whole of the national territory and, although with different matrixes and dynamics that characterize the geographical areas, it has agreed, in the final indications, the need to address the issue with a unified vision, grasping the common elements that characterize it and, in particular, deepening the subjective quality of the victim and investigating the purpose of the intimidating action. Today we give a first important answer, a rightful act towards all those administrators and civil servants who are put under pressure or threatened daily to condition their administrative activity. We have listened to their testimonies and identified areas of action and support tools. We choose, for this reason, as our first intervention, to tighten our pains. We give a strong signal to those who try to fight unscrupulously the work of those who work properly in defence and in the interests of the community. Let's tell the local administrators exposed firsthand that they're not alone. This is a commitment that must concern all types of illegal pressure, not only those of a mafia nature, referring to all administrative, executive and steering bodies, for majority and minority representatives, for managers and officials who are working to protect our territory in the context of particularly sensitive activities, such as administrative and judicial ones. I think of the Novara, my territory, affected by the business of the earth movement, the cycle of cement and the delivery of waste. The mayors ask us to be at their side even in difficult authorization procedures. The presence of the State and the different levels of government (regional, provincial) are decisive in order to give strength to the political choices to protect the territories and certain areas of value (I think of the protected areas of Ticino, Lake Maggiore and the Lama del Sesia). The same administrations are preparing themselves, fully grasping the need to structure strong defences. The Province of Novara, unique in Piedmont, has been equipped with a hollow plan that defines quantities of extractable material and extraction basins; the prefecture has been activated, also following the serious episodes occurred in recent years, with a protocol of legality for the control and monitoring of the quarries subscribed by the prefect, the prosecutor of the Republic, the Province, dozens of Municipalities, the ARPA, the Forces of order, the territorial direction of the work, the ASL and the representatives of the categories of operators in the field of mining activities and waste treatment. The Piedmont Region, just in these months, is working on a new law, promoted by the Group of the Democratic Party at Palazzo Lascaris, on mining activities: a rule that also takes charge of the support to administrators, starting from the regional planning of mining activities, to overcome the territorial inequalities that penalize some realities and make them attractive to organized crime. A law that provides for new rules of control, with the establishment of a specific inspection nucleus, a structure that allows the municipalities to be really active part, but that, at the same time, is a structure that protects and supports the administrators in the choices of government of their territory in such delicate areas. The mining and waste sector is a sector that is also sensitive to fragility in other areas of the administrative system, such as the management of social and welfare services, housing policies, compulsory health care, the removal of abusive buildings, activities carried out in full compliance with the law and transparency, but which require a network of protection against mayors and apparatus. In the course of the Commission's work, we have taken a bottom-up step, which calls for us to continue on the road to the protection of public administrators, with regulations aimed at intervening on organisational and administrative aspects, preventing the solitude of the decision-maker and avoiding excessive exposure during the organizational and monitoring procedures. Let us not lower our guard and put every useful tool in the field with a sense of responsibility and conviction in order to allow administrators to continue with greater serenity their fundamental activity of government of the territories. The draft law in question refers - as it was said - to the hypothesis of legislative changes in criminal matters that emerged in the Commission of Inquiry, with regard to acts aimed at obtaining a measure of its own favor or to hinder the issue of a measure of its own unfavorable, as well as those aimed at causing the resignation of one or more local administrators, because of the obvious pluri-offensive scope of such conduct (in addition to the injury of the individual integrity of the local administrator, also that of the good performance of the public administration and the internal personality of the State). The modification of the offence of violence or threat to a political, administrative or judicial body, as referred to in Article 338 of the Criminal Code, is therefore identified to adapt this case to the requirements of protection. Speaking on this article, moreover, the aggravating circumstances provided for in the following Article 339 of the Criminal Code are applicable to the facts in question, which provides for an increase of punishment if the fact is committed by the use of weapons, by a misrepresented person, by several persons gathered, with anonymous writing, in a symbolic way or using the intimidating force deriving from existing or supposed secret associations. All this will allow to use for most of the intimidating acts, and in particular for those that constitute the central nucleus of the phenomenon, a criminal case that can be processed of office, with an edittal penalty (the imprisonment from one to seven years) that allows the use of precautionary measures, as well as interceptions and any other means of proof. The Commission has also suggested an amendment to Article 380 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, aimed at providing for the inclusion of Article 338 of the Criminal Code among the cases for which it is possible to arrest in flagrant cases of crime. In relation to retorsive intimidating acts, i.e. those committed following the adoption of a measure by a local administrator, there was a need to provide for a new circumstance with special effect, which provides for an increase in penalty if a certain type of crime is committed against a local administrator due to the fulfilment of the mandate, duties or service. Finally, the proposal addresses the issue of intimidation aimed at those involved in electoral competitions. In the final report, the Commission proposed a change to the single text of the laws for competition and the election of municipal government bodies, aimed at extending sanctions also to those who, with threats or acts of violence, hinder the free participation of others in administrative electoral competitions. In fact, many administrators, moreover, in all geographical areas, have highlighted the escalation of the intimidation phenomena precisely in correspondence of the electoral campaigns, measure that is transposed with an amendment of Article 90 of the single text of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 570 of 1960. From here it is clear that the draft law under discussion impacts with the real democratic life of the country and in fact constitutes an important strengthening of the protection of local administrators and officials belonging to the administrative and judicial body. I would like to close my speech with the memory of Laura Prati, Mayor of Cardano al Campo, murdered in her office, in the Commune, by a vigilante suspended from office. For the first time the Municipality of Lombardy had elected a woman as the first town. In this very context, which is still full of dismay and pain, we have honoured his memory by holding a hearing of the Commission of Inquiry. I dedicate this to you in support of the adoption of the draft law under discussion. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u55	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u56	Mr President, we must thank the Commission of Inquiry, its President and all the members, and in this thank you, of course, there is also a positive assessment of the work they have done and, above all, of the in-depth outcome that has been achieved: they have carefully examined what is going on in our country, have grasped the implications that really threaten our local democracy and have achieved an extremely positive result, leading to a unanimous vote on the final report and the subsequent signing of a legislative proposal by all the parliamentary groups that voted on the results of the Commission of Inquiry. Colleagues, we are not dealing here with a criminal case that leaves the time it finds, or we are not doing a rhetorical exercise in favour of the political body of the State: here we are giving a real and real response to a threat, a repeated and systematic violence that strikes our administrators, daily, day by day, in all territories. Dear colleagues, imagine if the same phenomenon occurred in another advanced democracy country; there would be a mobilization. Democracy would be able to find the rigor to block the attempt to deviate, to condition and humiliate local democracy. That is why the only reproach that can be made to Parliament is that we have arrived late. Scholars and the doctrine have long argued that Article 338 of the Criminal Code, which contains the rule governing cases of violence or threat to the State and its political, judicial, administrative, parliamentary or council bodies, lacks a further rule that is able to assess this responsibility not only when it affects the body as a whole, but also when it affects the individual who is part of it. Here is the intervention that has been done: a surgery that is underlying the ability to activate a criminal law that must finally carry out its function of deterrent, in order to prevent, even in 2016, so many directors exposed suffer threats and violence. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, we are also talking about cases where people have been ruined or rendered invalid; many have also lost their lives. We are therefore talking not only about the classic threats, such as the paper that arrives, not only about the most trivial threat to which many of us have often been subjected: here we are talking about heavy threats, of violence that have also achieved objectives that harm the integrity and life of people. That is why I think that good work has been done and this is also thanks to the conciliation work that has been - as it should be - between the results of the Commission of Inquiry and the Commission of Justice. In the Committee on Justice, we have studied a lot about how to improve Article 338 of the Criminal Code. I would like to say to Senator Caliendo that it seems strange to me that he wants to avoid the sharing that has been achieved in the Commission of Inquiry and the joint assessment that has been achieved in the Commission of Justice to propose the shifting of the conduct to be punished to Article 336 of the Criminal Code (Violence or threat to a public officer), which already effectively sanctions violence or threat to an official in the exercise of his duties. The rapporteur therefore proposes that the provision in Article 338, ladies and gentlemen, where violence or threat is referred to a political, administrative or judicial body, should be moved to Article 336; in fact, by doing so, precisely from a systematic point of view and intervention, a disconnect is created so as to call into question both articles: we would make a patatrac. I therefore believe that the work done is right: it remains in Article 338 of the penal code, so that the prediction of the situation of violence or the threat to a political, administrative or judicial body can finally achieve its purpose: to be a deterrent and to punish those cases that still take place in our country today, as we have seen these days, in these weeks. The text also puts in a position to intervene intelligently on aggravating circumstances, of course without creating contradictions. However, there has been a contradiction in the press: it has been explained to us that we could harm the right of citizens to be informed, and thus also act against freedom of information. The rapporteur, whom I thank, has explained well that, as far as the intervention was made in the draft law, there is absolutely no such danger. However, in order to avoid any doubt and to avoid that around this very sensitive and dear to all of us can unleash, as often happens in our country, a series of forced and a little malicious interpretations that are then also tainted with a certain despicable interest and political conflict (which in these cases has no reason to be), the rapporteur has proposed a further rewording that puts us in a position to remove any idea that even remotely wants to harm the sacred right to information recognized in our country, that we all defend, that we want and that must always be protected. What is more, Mr President, in his introductory speech, the rapporteur made it clear that he was ready to take further steps to find full sharing in this House, to further improve the text and to make sure that we move further away from any interpretation in the sense of questioning the right to information. We appreciate the rapporteur's openness. The Democratic Party is ready to contribute; it wants to do so together with all the other Groups, the President of the Commission Justice, the President of the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators and all senators. This in order to find together a solution able to maintain the coherence of the text without expiration and create a suspicious and suspicious climate towards a norm that instead wants to be a resource to share everyone and to present positively to the country, in order to make sure that the local democracy disspies all its energies, without interference caused by actions of threat or violence such as to strike individual personalities that are part of the political, administrative and judicial body of our country and to make so that democracy, which is articulated in the different powers, can find that physiological energy and strength that in a country like ours also becomes democratic vitality. Mr President, we are therefore ready to move on to the amending phase and to ensure that all contributions are valued. I thank the Government that has given its availability, has accompanied us and is ready to give also its contribution. In the end we will have a text done well, systematic and able to say to the country: hands off democracy, hands off the life of democracy. Democracy takes place in its physiology, has its moments of opposition, but never violence and threat can be an instrument for regulating the relationship between the territories and the democratic life of our country. That is why we are ready to make our contribution and we are convinced that in the end we will find the right convergence and bring out an excellent text. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u57	Senator Perrone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of intimidation to local administrators is particularly felt by myself, as well as by the entire Group that I have the honour to represent in the Senate today, the Conservatives and Reformists. For years now, acting as mayor, city councilor or city councilor has become a real mission and a difficult challenge, if we think that the normal problems to be solved have been added cuts and financial constraints. All too often, as I said, in the name and on behalf of that civic mission, they suffer intimidation outside the norm. Whether it is words or even gestures, the sense of these serious acts does not change because the phenomenon can neither be admitted nor never underestimated. It is therefore necessary for the institutions, at all levels, not to confine themselves to mere declarations of closeness and solidarity, but to give concrete support to the administrators who carry out their task for legality and for their communities. For these reasons and for what I have mentioned, I feel the need to make myself spokesperson for a requirement that not only affects the security of public office, but also the very sense of civilization and modernity of democracy in the local Italian authorities. I therefore hope that this House will be able to provide a tangible response and finally practical support to the many local administrators, who from North to South are clamouring for it. I would like to remind you here that in 2013 the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Intimidating Acts against Local Administrators was set up. This Commission had the advantage of monitoring and quantifying the phenomenon between 1 June 2013 and 30 April 2014. The work was then continued by the National Observatory established at the Ministry of the Interior on 2 July 2015. What has emerged, ladies and gentlemen, is alarming. The acts of intimidation, recorded throughout the national territory, were 668 in 2013 and 805 in 2014. In 2015 there was a slight decline (619), but the substance and severity of the situation was in practice the same. What we are talking about is even more complex if we think that very often its causes are not attributable to alleged faults of local politics (lack of work in the first place). On this front, unfortunately my region, Puglia, is one of the most affected, second only to Sicily. In some cases the phenomenon has even resulted in acts of blood. I would like to mention here, only to mention some names, the murders of Renata Fonte in 1984, city council member of the Municipality of Nardò, in the province of Lecce; Gianni Carnicella in 1992, mayor of Molfetta, in the province of Bari; Maria Monteduro in 1999, city council member of the Municipality of Gagliano del Capo, in the province of Lecce. The draft law that we are about to vote on is therefore of enormous importance for the good of our communities. Its text fortunately amends Article 338 of the penal code, thus filling a gap of protection that had lasted until now having caused damage to so many honest citizens and their families. In fact, let us not forget that behind the threats to an administrator there is always also the pain of children, wives, husbands and relatives, even more blameless. But if we go back to the text, we can say, in conclusion, that it is a first answer. However, more needs to be done and demanded, on many levels. I am thinking, for example, of serious arrangements for the use of video surveillance in order to prevent the commission of these very serious crimes, especially in small, peripheral and forgotten centres. The same applies to the simplification of the many winding bureaucratic procedures that often leave only mayors and city councilors in the face of unmotivated acts of bullying. Let us not forget, even if they are not technically administrators, the many managers, officials and employees who carry out their work silently and who are sometimes seriously injured in these unacceptable events. The theme deserves much more time and space, but now let's move from words to deeds. We understand ourselves here that in the first place it is no longer possible to regard this phenomenon as a B-series issue and that it is linked to the normal and serene growth of our local communities. Let us commit ourselves to moving from these acts also a necessary message to the new generations towards a healthy commitment to politics, which is and must always continue to be a free and unconditional passion and dedication towards the citizens. As far as this is concerned, we appreciate the spirit of the text, although we reaffirm that it must only be a first step towards the final adoption and solution of the problem. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u59	Mr President, unfortunately, we are intervening on a phenomenon that has probably been underestimated. Ours is a country sadly known for the very serious phenomena of the mafia, the Camorra and the 'ndrangheta, yet, we have arrived to date with norms that have probably not been sufficient to combat the phenomenon of intimidation towards political organs and, in particular, administrative. Fortunately, the great work of the Commission of Inquiry, to which all the praise must go ours and of the country, has signalled some real lacks of regulation in order to arrive to a proposal normative that, for some parts, we share. Data on intimidation towards, in particular, administrative bodies are worrying. I refer to the data provided by the Public Notice, dating back to the middle of March, which are of particular concern: from 1 January to 15 March there have been 96 cases of intimidation, almost two cases a day, distributed in some ways equally throughout Italy. The phenomena range from the delivery of bullets, parts of animals, bombs or threatening letters, to car fires or other property owned by administrators. Regions that have a history of crime and pitfalls of a certain type have been involved, but, alongside Regions such as Calabria, Sicily, Puglia and Campania, we are also unfortunately registering cases in the North-East of Italy. I speak of Veneto, in particular, where from January 1st to February five intimidating acts took place, of which three were in Padua. These are data of this year, but we also remember what happened last year to the mayor of Padua, Massimo Bitonci, to whom was delivered, shortly after his election, an anonymous letter containing a bullet. Massimo Bitonci works in a city with particularly delicate characteristics; those who as mayor wanted to intervene in order to make solutions, probably, with those same solutions, gave annoyance. This is why there is an increase in this type of episodes that affect the activity of the administrator. We, members of the Lega Nord Group, have always paid particular attention to those who consider the true heroes of politics: I refer to the mayors, men who occupy a prominent place within their community, of whom they become not only representatives, but the first warriors, engaged in the front line in managing the various interests of the community with little resources available. Unfortunately, in some minds the management of the public thing does nothing but urge this kind of sad interventions, aimed at trying to condition the freedom of the administrator (which is then not his own, but that of his community). Going to influence the administrator's freedom to democratically protect citizens' interests in order to promote the individual, as the intimidator would like, is perhaps one of the worst insults that can be addressed to administrators. The draft law in question provides for a case in point in order to understand cases which probably did not fall within the scope of Article 338 of the Criminal Code. It is thus possible to incriminate the conduct of the person who seeks to hinder the issuing of an administrative measure against him or, on the contrary, to solicit one in his sole favour. We have less shared the content of Article 3. In fact, we believe that it is absolutely not the time - as it could ever be - to introduce a rule that can be read or only vaguely understood by our fellow citizens as an almost favorable treatment of a political body at the time when crimes are committed to its detriment. We believe - of course - that all of us must be considered equal and, even more so, we, as the political body of the highest representation of the population, must be treated as the Italian people. For this reason, we in the Commission have also voted in favour of amending the provisions of Article 339- bis of the Criminal Code in order to avoid an increase in the penalty for the crime of defamation, threats or damage to a political body. The rapporteur has now tabled an amending proposal, but we do not believe that it can have the effects that we believe are right. We believe that what is proposed cannot be included in the text of the draft law because, in predicting that a conduct can be punished for representing retaliation against a body, we could find ourselves in situations that could create doubts from an interpretative point of view. Surely the people who are outside, the citizens, who demand from us the maximum respect of the norms and the absolute absence of privileges or situations of benefit in our behalf, would not want such a rule. As far as the rest is concerned, the measure before us which can only be seen as a sharing, as we are talking about the necessary rules. It is truly hoped that our country can grow, even from a cultural point of view, respecting the activity of an institution, so that those who are tempted to affect the activity of an administrator with phenomena and activities of an intimidating type know that in Italy they cannot do it. Only when strict rules are foreseen and then we will find a way to ensure absolute certainty of the penalty (this has unfortunately not been done, particularly in this last parliamentary term), will we be able to secure all this for our fellow citizens only when we adopt rules that are easy to interpret and rigorous. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u60	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u61	Mr President, I have tried to follow the debate carefully, but for the umpteenth time I have to say that when I heard my fellow Members talking, I wondered what they were talking about. Diagnosis: there is an alarming phenomenon, on which we must intervene, which is that of aggressions and threats to local administrators. Moreover, in the Commission too, the measure we are debating was entitled: Provisions on combating the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators. My colleagues in this debate have rightly pointed out that the Councillors, municipal councillors and mayors are at the forefront of the territory and have paid a very high price in the last twenty years. I remember, in the period 1992-1994, the defenses that I made when there was the general criminalization of local administrators, compared to situations that I have experienced in person. I went to see the widows of administrators and mayors who lost their lives because some administrators had shot and killed them, not having had from them what they expected to have. So when I heard colleagues talking about the need to intervene to protect local administrators, I said that I was perfectly in agreement. If that were the text we are debating, I would vote for it: it is a pity that the text is anything else. The text that we are debating and which we shall vote on is not only about local administrators but also about local administrators. I do not understand why no one in the PD has referred to the fact that even the title of the measure has been changed to the last second, because local administrators have been joined by the individual members of the political, administrative and judicial bodies and it is certainly not a minor addition. In fact, we have gone from the protection of mayors, administrators and advisors, of those who are at the forefront, especially in areas with high density malavitosa for the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the camorra, to a rule of general protection of the individual members of the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, the Regional Councils and all the magistrates. I do not know why no colleague has talked about this new protection, but it is not out of here that they have not noticed this attempt. I would remind my colleagues that, fortunately, Members of Parliament have a guarantee in the Constitution: they are not called upon to respond to opinions expressed. We all know that if a citizen sues us or brings a civil suit against us for what has been said in this House, in the Commission, or even outside, if they have a connection with parliamentary activity, the action of this citizen is paralyzed, because the Member has legal protection, which of course the citizen does not have, vis-à-vis the Member of Parliament, who can sue him vice versa and can bring civil proceedings against him. The magistrates have a "small" peculiarity compared to the citizen, the ordinary journalist or even the parliamentarians: those who decide on the causes of defamation or on the civil causes that concern the magistrates, are precisely the magistrates. Just go and see the times of the lawsuits and civil cases that concern the magistrates and what they derive from these cases, to realize that, inevitably, the fact that the magistrates decide on issues that concern the magistrates - the data are there to testify - creates an imbalance. In this measure we have written, first of all, something that I think is incredible and certainly affects public opinion. The rapporteur, Mr Cucca, has tabled an amendment to Article 339- bis confirming that the penalties laid down for the crimes referred to in Articles 582, 595, 610, 612 and 635 of the Criminal Code - including the defamation provided for in Article 595 - have increased from one third to half, but only in cases where conduct is of a retrosive nature. Excuse me, but what is retaliation or even the threat to a Member of Parliament? I was the father of the Fini-Giovanardi drug law, which was good for me and not good for others. What would have happened if I had to consider all the threats and insults that I received because of the law, from those who did not share it? It is true that in some cases I have sued them, but I certainly do not expect to have special protection because I am a Member of Parliament, compared to what would happen vice versa, if it was a citizen or a journalist who received the offense. Why should a Member suffer retaliation? But what is retaliation? I'm not voting for you anymore, I'm sending you home, I'm voting for the referendum because you voted for a law that I don't agree with? What is retaliation? What's a defamatory campaign? In this parliamentary term - and this is true of the misdirection, of how the question of war crimes was and what else - we have a tendency to strike at opinion. In this case, we tend to aggravate the penalties in a sensitive way for citizens or journalists if we qualify their opinion as a retrospect, which we consider defamatory, in relation to the activity of Parliament, a legislator or the activity of a magistrate. If I am told that a local administrator, a mayor, has suffered a personal injury from which a disease comes or that property has been destroyed, I can agree with you because we move to de facto situations that must be affected. But at a time when we are simply talking about threats or attitudes that we regard as defamatory towards magistrates or parliamentarians, we are going on a completely different level, as we are going on a different level when we add to Article 1 that the same penalty - the one provided for in Article 338 of the Civil Code, here too, is a threat - is submissive to those who commit the fact to obtain, hinder or prevent the adoption of any measure, including legislation. Here again, we had a great debate on civil unions and we had a hard confrontation in the Chamber; can you imagine what would have happened if there had been a penalty for those who threatened to prevent a legislative measure, that is, for the people of St. John's Square, or those who found themselves at the Circus Maximus, and all the people who protested against the law? I know that there is a tendency in this regard since we have the Scalfarotto bill that provides for the introduction of a crime that wants to criminally strike those who have disagreed and disagree, for example, with gay marriage or on the uterus for rent because it would be homophobia. There are already ongoing attempts to turn criminal matters into what is merely an opinion, but here I would like to understand what it means to a Member of Parliament - even those who speak to him - what it means to say. I am not referring to the case in which the threat serves to obtain the non-adoption of an administrative measure of the mayor or a councilman, because I fully understand what a concrete threat to the issue or non-issue of a measure means. But what does the threat to obtain or hinder a legislative measure mean? For example, those who say that in the next referendum they will vote 'no' to send Renzi home and this Parliament poses a threat? Is that a collective threat? Is that retaliation? Sure, it's retaliation. Gandolfini said that you passed the law on civil unions with confidence, preventing Parliament from voting on the amendments and we will vote 'no' in the referendum: it is retaliation. It's a backsliding threat. It is part of this law, since an amendment by the rapporteur provides that the penalties laid down for the crime provided for in Article 595 of the Criminal Code have increased from one third to half if the conduct is of a retortive nature and is committed to the detriment of a member of a political body. Sayings like "Cirinna" we send you home, or maybe "Giovanardi" we send you home, in the case of the drug law, or "You have to stop doing crazy things" (there have been anti-prohibitionist newspapers that have said so many things) are protected? Yes, sir! The protection system Giovanardi, colleague Cirinna like any other citizen who feels defamed. Therefore, since a citizen who feels defamed can use the means available to him by the law to protect his or her good repute, it is therefore necessary that even a Member or a magistrate who feels threatened or insulted or subject to retortive actions can do as any other citizen, i.e. resort to the judiciary to protect his or her rights. Someone has to explain to me - and no one has done so because all the Members who have spoken so far have spoken of local administrators - why these rules also extend to Members and judges and why parliamentarians and magistrates must be more equal than other citizens. How do you qualify a press campaign or articles as backup? But retaliation is one of the instruments of politics. Revenge is also about making critical campaigns against a certain kind of attitude, and it is a non-criminal issue, but about freedom. Then we always go on the subtle, saying that it will be the jurisprudence and the courts that decide. The judgment of first instance will determine one thing, the appeal one will say another and finally the Cassation will judge this kind of attitude. In the meantime, we, as a theoretical principle, increase the penalties for those who have this kind of attitude towards parliamentarians and magistrates, thus leaving the citizens in the background. I would like colleagues who are going to vote on this measure tomorrow to explain the reason why. I have heard a thousand times here too the controversy against the caste. The 5 Star Movement Group - for example - has made this controversy, that of the equality of citizens, its battlehorse. But then, in the Commission, he voted in favour of this measure. [[Comments of Senator Cappelletti.]] The 5 Star Movement Group in the Commission voted in favour of this measure - I was present - and rejected my amendments, which I will be resuming in the Chamber and which can very well be reviewed, and the most radical of them says that the law is fine, as long as it is applied to local administrators. We delete the reference to parliamentarians and magistrates and we vote for it to protect local administrators from defamation, damage, threats and everything that puts them in trouble on the territory. But it must not be about parliamentarians and magistrates. If that doesn't happen, I have tabled other amendments that eliminate the crime of defamation. If someone puts their hands on me or a colleague or harms the property of a colleague, it may also be okay for me that, as a legislator performing a delicate function, what is written in the two articles concerning damage or personal injury is extended to them, as a Member exposes himself to more than one ordinary citizen. But this is certainly not the case with defamation, which leads to opinions. Of course, depending on whether these amendments are accepted or not, we will vote in favour or against. Certainly, as I enter the measure in a semi-clandestine way, I likewise share the alarm and concern for local administrators. I am in solidarity with the mayors, those who have lost their lives or have been attacked and with the families who remain in despair after their relatives, who carried out such a costly and difficult public activity as those who confront the territory, paid their service to the community. However, I do not want to confuse the two issues. Therefore, on the basis of what will happen tomorrow and the acceptance of our amendments, we shall compare our final vote on this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u62	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u63	Mr President, this bill stems from a work done in the Senate, an important work. The Commission of Inquiry into the attacks and the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators was wanted immediately. In fact, we have all agreed that there was an emergency with regard to our local administrators, those who work on the front, in a condition of the country of great economic and social difficulty, and that, also because of the phenomena of disorderly rebellion, and not only in relation to events of organized crime, are the subject of intimidation and attacks, together with their families. The Commission's work has been important, because this issue has been examined in all its various aspects and in all its facets. The local administrators, in fact, are not all the same, the territories of our country are not all the same and the sufferings that are recorded in them have different intensity and manifestations of acuteness. There are situations in which local administrations are interpreted as an oppressive presence of the State. There are other situations in which local authorities are seen as complicit in criminal activities and are oppressive towards the rights of citizenship. There are situations in which healthy communities are attacked from the outside by criminal phenomena that have settled following interventions intended to cultivate interests, usually always very precise, of an economic nature, in order to pursue illicit enrichment. We have, therefore, done a job and have discovered that the phenomenon has several facets. I would therefore like to thank the President of the Commission of Inquiry, who has done an important job of codifying legislative intervention to protect and guarantee our honest local administrators and the citizens who are victims, to some extent, of administrative attitudes that are based on illice and are an expression of dishonest behaviour. This, therefore, is not a bill that tends to defend political staff whatever it is. It is rather a bill that intends to assert the authority of the State also in its local articulations. And it is precisely through the affirmation of the authority of the State and of organized society, according to the principles of the Constitution, according to civil coexistence, the search for the common well-being and the defence of the common good, that those who are engaged in the function of representation of this State - of the constitutional state and the republican State - are rightly defended by those who attack it; from those who attack it with violent intimidation and attacks on things, even public, also of the Commune, even owned by the State, to condition its behaviour, to make it difficult to function, to incite fear, fear and to discourage its free exercise of political function. Therefore, this text must be - in my opinion - approved, even with the changes that we believe are more right to clear the field from the idea that it is a defensive measure of the corrupt, decompose political body. And I say this because, unfortunately, from what I often hear in this House - and it would not really be appropriate to use those terms - the idea has spread that politicians have something wrong. If there is an apple baked inside the basket, it is oriented to be the local administrator, to run for Parliament or the government of the country. I consider this a degenerate vision, the result of a degenerate culture, which has been promoted in a degenerate way, starting from certainly negative examples, which we can find in politics as in the professions, as in the economy, as in the daily life of our society, in many branches of human activity. And I also think that those who exercise political function have more responsibility. But there is no civil society, unless there is an organised society, if there is no state, if there is no democratically identified authority, which exercises the public functions of protecting and guaranteeing the freedoms of each of us. No way. There is an anarchy of the strongest. And who has in mind to strike the political function, even through the intimidations that are exercised against our local administrators (those who live the most peripheral condition), has in mind that anarchy, that of the interests of the few who rape the rights of the many. This is what we must defend, also through this measure. I am told that Article 3 is discussed and also questionable, because it would involve in Article 595 of the Criminal Code a different regulation of penalties according to the defamation aimed at hitting the local administrator or rather the public official, even the one engaged in the field of justice. I think that we are already facing a step forward when we read the clarification of the rapporteur's amendment. See that the defamation used in retrosive operation is one of the issues that has been discussed, that has been discussed and that has been widely discussed, for example in the media and also in our television. The so-called mud machine is not my invention. It is an invention that comes directly from information operators, from very authoritative representatives of the communication sector. So when it is said that the mud machine is used and can be used in a functional way to hit public operators, local administrators, honest officials and justice administrators, we have to defend them and somehow we have to defend them. If we think that defamation, that is, the mud machine, is an enemy, let those who have indicated the mud machine as one of the most used tools to strike the honest action of our honest administrators and public operators say it before any other. We need to get out of the emergency we've been through in the last few years, and we need to find a way. It is right that we keep our eyes open to finding what is done in the branches of public administration, in the functioning of the State, because it must guarantee the citizens and as such cannot be polluted. At the same time, however, we must have the responsibility to defend more and more and to restore, in this action of defence, the prestige that deserves those who engage for all and do so through their action in democratic institutions, in the system of autonomy, in public offices and in the organization and administration of justice. We must have the courage. We must no longer have access to the idea that we are all the same, because that is not true. It's a lie. And those who indicate, in whatever way, do it out of interest, and not because they are wrong; they do it because they have thought it, organized it and run it in that function: dismantling the democratic state is the goal of those who cannot stand and do it by hitting those who work in it. Nobody's perfect, ma'am. I think no one is perfect, but many of us humbly try to serve our fellow citizens, and try to do so with the utmost good will. And I am convinced that this measure, with the appropriate modifications that have been proposed, can best match our need. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Campanella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Gualdani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u65	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the members of the Commission and the President for the excellent work they have done, and then I think it is right to mention a Sicilian who has suffered a very serious attack in recent days. He is the president of the Nebrodi Park, Dr. Antoci, to whom I express my closeness and I hope that our work can also contribute to helping the Forces of Order and to making administrators feel more and more less alone. The legislative proposal before us today is the result of the political will to follow up on the results of the Commission of Inquiry into intimidation of local administrators. The Commission, established in March 2014, concluded its work after a year of intense activity, during which it held the hearing of two Ministers (interior minister Alfano and then Minister for Regional Affairs Lanzetta) and carried out seven missions in as many local realities of large and small size between the North and the South of our country. Parliament has shown itself close to the needs of listening and protecting all those who contribute to the administration of public affairs in local authorities, including considering all the acts of inspection union presented by Members and senators, who call for explanations and require assistance for mayors and local administrators affected by threats or retaliations. These questions and questions are testimonials of how the representatives of the nation do not intend to neglect the dangerous episodes that often involve local administrators, in contexts where the relationship between state and citizens is more direct and less filtered, and where attempts at undue influence, intimidation and violence can occur. Certainly the initiatives of the parliamentarians and the work of the Commission of Inquiry, although they are very important signs of the closeness of the State to the administrators in difficulty, represent only a part of the initiatives and tools useful to address the problem in practice. These instruments, therefore, have been put in black and white by the bill that we are examining today. The text dismissed by the Justice Commission, in fact, tightens the sanctions for those who commit acts of intimidation against those who administer the thing public with dedication and respect for the law. The legislative solutions proposed by the Commission aim to achieve the most effective prevention and combating of intimidation: this will ensure that the functions of the free and efficient local authorities and administrators are exercised. In particular, with regard to Article 338 of the Criminal Code (violence or threat to a political, administrative or judicial body), the measure extends the application of the rule, on the one hand, to acts of intimidation against the political, administrative, judicial or its individual members and, on the other hand, to cases in which they are intended to: In these cases precautionary measures and interceptions are therefore possible. In addition, Article 2 extends the obligation to arrest in flagency also to the aforementioned crime of violence or threat to a political, administrative or judicial body. Moreover, Article 3 of the bill contains the new article 339-bis concerning new aggravating circumstances: in addition to the aggravating factors already provided for in Article 339, the rule provides for a further aggravating of the penalties (from one third to half) if the acts of intimidation (injury, defamation, private violence, threat, damage) are committed against a member of a political, administrative or judicial body due to the fulfilment of the mandate, duties or service. Finally, Article 4 of the draft law amends the single text on the elections of municipal bodies (the decree of the President of the Republic n. 570 of 1960), introducing a new paragraph to Article 90, concerning acts of intimidation against candidates for elections: in order to guarantee specific protection also for the aspiring local administrators, the sanctions provided for the disturbance of the right to vote also extend to those who, with threats or acts of violence, hinder the free participation of others in the administrative electoral contests. It is a measure widely shared by the political forces, which strongly strengthens the sanctioning apparatus and is part of a clear and unambiguous political line carried out also by the Government. To conclude, in fact, it seems useful to remember that the Ministry of the Interior has constituted the National Observatory on the intimidating acts against local administrators who, also through the provincial sections, analyzes the complaints submitted in this matter, investigates the most recurrent causes of these phenomena and promotes awareness initiatives on the topic of legality dedicated above all to young people. [[Applause from Senator Cardinals.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u66	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the draft law resulting from the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators. Let's face it: normally the Committees of Inquiry do not follow up on concrete actions, but in this case it has not been and I hope that this work will not subsequently be rendered useless by the political dynamics of the parliamentary classrooms. On the merits of the work carried out, I must say that during the twelve months of activity the Commissioners were able, in a climate of total sharing, to analyze a phenomenon too often forgotten and submerged, but whose proportions are however very important. At the root of the phenomenon (witly excluding the causes of the organized underworld, dealt with elsewhere) there are different causes, ranging from the bad expectations of the voters to the clumsy statements of the candidates and then the elected to administer the Municipalities, from the rampant economic crisis that more and more affects the population to personal revenge, sometimes due to excessive competition or animosity in the electoral competition. Part of the problem is the error of interpretation of the administrator's civil service. Citizens feel they are allowed to claim favorable treatment or otherwise personalized exceptions for personal problems that would require long authorization paths or in any case changes to the planning plans of the administration, often accompanied by the binomial electoral-vote promise. In these cases the problem would be solved with a higher level of civic education taught by primary schools, which allows at least to understand that nothing can be left to the free interpretation of norms by administrators, but everything must be subject to rules and permits as linear and objective as possible. I have spoken of greater civic education, although I fear that it will no longer be fully addressed and, therefore, we should once again lay the foundations for the ministerial programmes to begin again to talk about the role of citizen, the management of public res publica and everything else. With regard to candidates and their electoral campaign attitudes that may give rise to subsequent retaliation by voters who are mocked by false promises, little remains to be said except that candidates to administer administrative offices should have intigerent behavior and not seek by any means the achievement of their objectives. Unfortunately we know that even in this electoral round there have been photos of marked cards and a whole sequence of events that do not make me hope for the future. That kind of electoral promise leads to nothing good and could be limited with minimal preselection. I do not say to do as we do, that we avoid applications without production of criminal certificates for pending loads, but at least to provide for preventive information that could be conveyed through simple publications by the Ministry, distributed at the time of acceptance of the candidacy, that bring back duties and rights of the functions of the elected offices to which we are applying. Or some changes to the electoral campaign law could be introduced to introduce stakes within which a candidate can move or warn him of the false promises and the consequences of low-level propaganda, perhaps mostly based on ignorance of rules or political opportunities. As far as the current economic situation is concerned, everyday life is certainly marked by safety deficiencies regarding the economic survival of the family. The search for a stable job that can allow a worthy existence to the members of the family engages much of the day and, in some cases, the short-term lack of solutions leads to a discouragement of the citizens who, at some point, no longer know where to blink their heads. Unfortunately, the situation outside these golden classrooms is now this and often the administrator has to intervene from his own pocket to alleviate the economic problems of his own citizens. It does not always succeed in intervening and in short passes, in the thoughts of those who have a problem, from the condition of savior to that of executioner. The local administrator is, in fact, increasingly the first line of the state, the first and often the only contact state-citizen. And the central organs, playing on this shield, leave the local administrators alone, abandoned to themselves, loading them with burdens that often go beyond the tasks proper to the local administration, relegating their role from administrative to collective, from resolver to punitive. It is possible to solve this problem, in addition to the adoption of the draft law under consideration, in my opinion it can also be better planning of government policies, aid from the State that allows perhaps the overcoming of this period of crisis of citizens, such as the income of citizenship but we no longer say it. Generally speaking, a part of the blame is probably always derived from the government's more demanding delegation to coercive prerogatives vis-à-vis its citizens. More and more often, in fact, we are witnessing a Government that fails to demand in the first person the collection of taxes or the respect of the rules and, after having unequivocally approved horizontal cuts to the local administrations, has de facto delegated to these last functions proper to the central organization, lowering on it a role merely as collectors, without decision-making power and above all without portfolio or means to be able to operate. And this undoubtedly causes an increase in tension between the parties (i.e. citizen and local administrator) and helps to prevent them from being able to protect themselves from potentially dangerous situations. In this case too, it would be useful to increase civic awareness and to rebalance the expectations, obligations and needs of the parties involved, as well as a clear distinction between what the citizen pays in taxes to the central administration and the local one (from which he expects a return to the territory in services). Considering that most of those who are sitting in these classrooms come from previous experiences in local administrations, we would have expected more attention to be paid to the abandonment of administrators in critical and potentially dangerous situations, well before the 17th legislature. It would have been necessary before, but let's go back to today. Local administrators expect concrete measures and not only and exclusively pieces to ensure their safety. They expect general welfare policies for the territories they have to administer, as well as the easing of those pacts and those evil Italian economic policies that choke the municipalities and then subjugate them to bad choices dropped from above in exchange for essential rights and services that should be guaranteed by the Charter, but let's forget it. The draft law on the agenda wants to be a possible response to these needs, not already a further "scudo" for the political caste, but a support for local administrators and only for them, also as a tangible sign of recognition of a role, that of the local administrator, as the first and most important presence of institutions in the political and administrative sphere of the country. Democracy, as we say, always starts from the bottom, from the municipalities. Let's make it happen without violence, not for people, not for things. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Lo Moro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u68	She is registered to speak Senator Cardinals. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u69	Mr President, Senators and Senators, as the last to speak, I will make a couple of comments on the work and expectations of this bill. At last we are in the Assembly with a bill that has seen us all agree. I remember the work done in a Commission which - I want to stress this, because it is not obvious - has given itself a time and respected it. Colleagues from the opposition parties have also recognised that a concrete proposal has been made. We have worked, we have made a commitment and we are here today to respect it. The things that came to light after the initiatives, the various surveys and the meetings that we held, beyond the diversity, showed some common aspects: this is the case, what are the areas and topics that are often subject to intimidation and at risk of intimidation. I'm thinking about quarries, garbage, commercial licenses, gambling. But above all the common elements that allowed us to warn these demands and to write this bill were those that denounced the audits. First of all, I am referring to the need for a greater link between all those who work in this area. We have seen clearly that, where there is one, things work better and come out more easily. Then there is the need to give the right value to this issue. There has been too much underestimation over time. In the first speech, Mrs Albano spoke of numbers, but she mentioned names and surnames in an appropriate way because behind the numbers there are people with their roles and the activity carried out constantly. Then came impunity and the possibility of rarely reaching those who committed intimidation and, at best, of punishing him in some way. And we have seen that this, as a result, causes a sort, on the one hand, of resignation and, on the other hand, of difficulty in denouncing. I'll always remember a mayor who said she didn't say such things and we were scandalized. I remember with President Lo Moro we were thinking that this was more serious than we thought. In addition to the difficulty of a system of rules able to accept this instance, there was also the great loneliness of the administrators. The lack in the norm of the provision of the criminality of those who carry out an intimidation on the individual administrator and not on the collegiate body has prompted us to arrive in the Chamber with the bill under consideration. And I also say - and I should like to remind all of us - that its approval in the Commission took place unanimously and I also remember - today I am speaking last and in that case too I was penultimate, and therefore I will have to tighten up - that we also unanimously approved the need to write the draft law in question. We have not been vague in the proposal, but we have written down what we would have expected with the rule. For this reason - I am telling the truth - I am a little impressed by yet another search for perfection. As they say on my side, the best is the enemy of good. I'm talking about the desperate quest to write a perfect thing, and then write nothing. We should avoid that. The rapporteur has done well to explain the issue of defamation and has done well to table the amendment. Let's discuss everything, but let's not take that risk, since we've kept to time and schedule. Above all - believe me - to hear about privileges a little 'indignant. What is the privilege that we would go to introduce with the rule under consideration? The privilege we have is to do something useful in this House for administrators. The privilege we have is to go to Calabria on June 24th to participate in the first national march of directors under fire promoted by Public Notice. I would like to go there knowing that I have approved a measure and that I have made a commitment. I would like to be told that I had the privilege of making a useful journey, without ever leaving the administrators alone. I would like to know - and this is true - the privilege of participating in this march knowing that, in our little one, we have made a contribution. Let's not exploit this. We have worked with unanimous agreement and we have seen that this phenomenon affects everyone. It is not true that the phenomenon concerns only the regions of the South: it concerns all the regions of Italy, because they are cross-cutting themes. There is no such thing as demagogy and an attempt to block and stop, which often - let me make a joke without controversy - I see the usual people and colleagues doing when it comes to matters relating to justice. Please allow this House to do something really important. Mr Uras said earlier that this is an important step which allows us to give back authority and dignity to the role that local administrators play. The local administrators are our map and represent the State on the territories and, therefore, giving them back dignity and authority, we give them back to the State everything. Believe me, a weaker state is not useful to anyone: by majority, opposition and those who use exploitations. We need a strong and authoritative state and administrators who feel helped and supported especially now, at a time when the crisis and difficulties give them a greater responsibility. I am referring above all to those who work every day trying, with dignity and effort, to carry on their commitment, even to the point of risking their lives. For these reasons, do not hesitate and tomorrow we shall vote in favour of the measure. I would like everyone together, including those I have now heard sceptics, to go to the march in defence of the administrators scheduled for 24 June. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Uras]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u70	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u71	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u74	CARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL). Mr President, I would like to reply to Question 405083 to the Minister of Justice, which I tabled in January 2016. The question concerns internships in the field of justice, started in 2010 by the Province of Rome, thanks to the allocation of own funds. These measures were aimed at cassintegrates or recipients of social shock absorbers by way of derogation, unemployed and unemployed, in order to dispose of the backward in civil and criminal justice. In 2011 these programs were taken over by the Lazio Region; in 2012 many Regions decided to carry out the same projects; in 2013 the same were taken over by the Ministry of Justice; in 2014 the projects were extended by the law of stability. Over the years, people in employment have fallen from 4,500 to 2,600. In November 2015 a ban was published for 1,502 trainees, for a 12-month scholarship, to be included in the setting up of the office of the trial, with places distributed in the various judicial districts of Italy. This call has shown strong penalty for Calabria, with the forecast of only 23 places, for a total of 670 entitled. Of the 1,502 places banned, about 350 were discovered in various judicial districts. I would like to know, therefore, whether it is the Minister's intention to assign the vacancies to Calabria, given the penalty already suffered.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u75	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-637.ana.u76	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, June 8, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.48 p.m.
