ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 28 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 29 January 2016 Mr President, I inform the S.V. The President of the Republic, by his own decree of today, adopted on my proposal, appointed Mr. Dr. Mr Enrico COSTA, who shall cease his office as Deputy Minister and State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. F. to Matteo Renzi. [[Applause]] On the same date, the President of the Council of Ministers also sent the following letter: "Rome, 29 January 2016 Mr President, I inform the S.V. The President of the Republic, by his own decree of today, adopted on my proposal, after hearing the Council of Ministers, appointed the following Subsecretaries of State: to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers: - Professor Thomas NANNICINI; for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation: - on. Vincenzo AMENDOLA; for Justice: - sen. Federica CHIAVAROLI; - on. Dr. Mr Gennaro BIGLIORE; for Economic Development: - on. Teresa BELLANOVA, who ceases to serve as Undersecretary for Labour and Social Policy; Mr Antonio Gentile - who, pursuant to Rule 13 of the Rules of Procedure, shall cease as Secretary of the Council of President - - for Infrastructure and Transport: - sen. Ms Simona VICARI, who ceased her post as Undersecretary for Economic Development; for Heritage and Cultural Activities and Tourism: - on. Ms Dorina BIANCHI; - on Dr. Antimo CESARO. F. to Matteo Renzi
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2081, 14, 197, 239, 314, 909, 1211, 1231, 1316, 1360, 1745, 1763, 2069 and 2084.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u8	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have asked you to take the floor to point out to the House that it will be very difficult to assess and vote on some of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, so I would ask you to postpone them, because the Budget Committee has not yet given its opinion on the text either. This is due to the fact that the Government itself has informed us that it is absolutely essential to check that the funds to which the bill refers for the coverage of social security forecasts, especially related to the consequences of the possible approval of the bill under consideration, may already have been used and therefore may no longer have the capacity. We are therefore waiting for the government's technical report on the text, Mr President. As some of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling also refer to Article 81 of the Constitution, and therefore to the appropriateness of the economic and financial coverage provided for in the Constitution, I believe that we cannot proceed to the vote on these preliminary rulings unless we are certain that the Budget Commission may have hesitated to do so. Then of course there will be the opinion on the amendments, but we know that it can be made later.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u9	As is well known, even in the case of the numerous precedents in this matter, there is no obstacle to the examination of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and to the vote on them. To inform the House, I would like to say that they are members of the Senate for about twenty-one hours of debate, which may not even allow us to conclude the general debate this week. Of course, before you start any vote on the amendments, it will be necessary to obtain the opinion you have requested. We can therefore proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u12	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Mr President, I rise on our four questions for a preliminary ruling and to express my opinion on the others. The first problem is that the text comes to the House after Article 72 of the Constitution has been torn apart by the Presidency. The text under discussion was presented to the Senate on 6 October, assigned to the Justice Commission; on 12 October, the rapporteur, Mrs Cirinna, carried out the report; we signed up to speak as senators, but none of us could intervene, so the examination in the Commission did not even begin. The day after the Conference of Group Leaders scheduled it for the Assembly and since 14 October the Justice Commission has been exonerated, so much so that the President had to report that the measure would go to the House without a rapporteur. Then from 14 October to 28 January the text was not examined by the Commission, which could no longer do so. I recalled earlier that the so-called Fini-Giovanardi law was repealed for violation of Article 72 of the Constitution, because the Constitutional Court wrote that, when a text involves sensitive political, legal and scientific choices, it does not apply to anything that has been discussed in the Senate Commission for three years, because it was then rushed into a draft law of conversion, violating Article 72 of the Constitution, which makes examination compulsory in the Commission. I wrote a letter to the President, reminding him of all these things, but I didn't get an answer. I shall then read to you what Senator Angius said about the so-called Cirami law, which had been called back to the House after a month. In that case, the Rules of Procedure had been applied correctly, because they had shortened, but did not cancel the time. Senator Angius, on behalf of the PD, said, "When you cheat on the rules." [[Brusio]] I would like to be heard, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u13	Senator Giovanardi, stop for a moment and we will recover this time. I beg the senators to be silent or sit outside to pursue their conversions. Please, colleagues, don't stop at the center of the hemicycle. I would ask the assistants to invite the senators to take their seats or to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u14	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Thank you, Mr President. So, President Angius said: When you cheat on the rules, when you play hide-and-seek with the rules that the majority and the government intend to approve, you can no longer have confidence and we cannot have it in those who have the institutional responsibility of the Senate of the Republic. In that case the time limits had been shortened and, after a month of discussion in the Commission, the measure had been referred back to the House. Here the terms have been reset and there has not been a minute in the Commission to examine the measure, as required by Article 72 of the Constitution. If we reject our request to return the measure to the Commission, we will present in the next few days a conflict of attribution to the Constitutional Court, for the unprecedented injury, in sixty years of Senate history, of the prerogatives constitutionally guaranteed by the Commission. That is therefore the first reason why we are paying attention to this House. The second concerns the violation of Article 29 of the Constitution. Now Senator Giovanardi is speaking, but in recent days the Presidents or Vice Presidents emeritus of the Constitutional Court Flick, Mirabelli, Chieppa, Santosuosso, De Siervo, Maddalena and Napolitano have all authoritatively signed appeals or issued interviews, in which it is said that the text presented in the Assembly conflicts directly with Article 29 of the Constitution, because civil unions between man and man or between woman and woman overlap, recalling the norms of the civil code, to the marriage provided for by the Constitution [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]] The Constitutional Court has asked us to apply Article 2 of the Constitution, on social formations, and not to create a "B" marriage. Therefore, the major Italian constitutionalists have branded this text as unconstitutional. I therefore move on to the third reason for unconstitutionality that we have presented: if this law passes we will have marriage between man and woman, governed by Article 29 of the Constitution, we will have civil unions, exclusively between man and man or between woman and woman, with the reversibility and all the privileges of marriage, we will have heterosexual cohabitations, regulated by the second part of the law Cirinna, which apply only to unmarried heterosexuals. So either the two men or the two women will be entitled to a survivor's pension, but the actual family, perhaps with two children, will not have that right, which is only provided for homosexual couples. Then there is a fourth category, consisting of de facto couples, who do not make conventions, nor civil unions, and who will have the protection that the jurisprudence already assigns to that type of couples. We will then have the couples who live in a situation of solidarity, but not on the basis of a love relationship, let us take for example the case of the coexistence between two widows, who also have the right to see such relationships regulated, and then we will have the singles. So we will have created a civil code in slices, divided into six parts, and the magistrates will have to distangle themselves in this juniper of norms. Therefore, instead of equalizing the rights of all, instead of giving all unmarried persons the opportunity to enjoy rights for assistance, hospital, rent, house or succession in the company, different categories are established, one different from the other, according to the situation in which they are located. One last thing, perhaps the most important of all, which concerns the question of constitutionality is that this bill paves the way for the sale of children and we say that children are not bought. Today a man-man couple, can go abroad and take home a child made with the uterus for rent, and if the real father, the biological one, dies, the court, according to Article 44, letter a), in force, can give the child in adoption to the surviving partner, even if it is not the father, because it can be ascertained that there is a stable character of affection between the two. If the bill presented by Senator Cirinna passes instead, anyone, spending 80,000, 100,000 or 120,000 euros, goes to obtain the oocyte with a eugenic selection in some countries that guarantee that the person is white, beautiful, tall, healthy, of course with contracts that foresee abortion if things go wrong. Then you take a woman from the third world or in Ukraine, who is forced to sell herself out of desperation and poverty, and after nine months this child is torn from the mother, programmed as an orphan, brought to Italy by two men who, if passed the bill Cirinna, one minute later ask for adoption and become parent 1 and parent 2: an infamy towards the women who are being exploited; an infamy towards children deprived of the right that the City of Rome, on the initiative of Senator Cirinna, gave to the dogs and cats of the kennels, to whom they cannot be taken away the puppies for at least four months because they would lack the affection of the mother. This and what will happen with this text. Therefore, our four proposals, one of method and the other of merit, show us how absolutely insane and hasty it was to bring such a delicate subject to the attention of the House without a minimum of in-depth analysis of the complex legal issues that are at the basis of this measure, creating again children and stepchildren, and without any information. I had to call Oscar Giannino and Alessandro Milan at...Radio24, one of the major Italian radios, because they were explaining to everyone that civil unions are for both homosexuals and heterosexuals, and they apply to everyone. I had to call to tell them: but what are you saying? Civil unions are a category only for homosexuals. The couples of fact man-woman instead have a treatment inferior and different from what is given to them: a thing, from the constitutional point of view, totally unjustifiable. Then if we had time, we could have done what Greece did. I would remind the House that the latest laws in Europe on the subject were that of Slovenia, which with 64 percent of the votes rejected the law on gay marriage, and that of Croatia, which also rejected it with a popular referendum. In addition, Greece has presented a draft law on which all LGBT associations have expressed their consent, so much so that I have proposed its content in the form of an amendment. What does the Greek law so praised of Tsipras say? He says that you go to a notary and anyone (man-man, woman-woman, woman-man) can make a contract of solidarity that is then deposited with the municipality, and with that contract you guarantee a whole series of individual rights. I would like to recall Aldo Moro and Amendola, and here is President Napolitano who met Amendola and Iotti personally. At the constituent assembly, when Article 2 provided for the rights of individuals and social formations to be guaranteed, Moro, Amendola, Iotti and Fanfani submitted an amendment that said: not the rights of individuals and formations; they claimed not to recognize the right of the union or of the patronage or of the party, but the rights of individuals in associations; therefore the rights of two persons who want to make a civil union or of a man and a woman who want to make these conventions, the rights of the two individuals in social formation; there is no right of social formation. Article 2 was amended, the Constitution approved the modification and social formations in which the individual's personality takes place. And this asked us to do the Constitutional Court by ruling No 10, stating that even with the greatest fantasy in the world a Parliament, if it does not change Article 29, can attribute marriage if not exclusively to a man and a woman. Unfortunately, the bill Cirinna upsets the Constitution and what the Constitutional Court told us to do. Luckily, so many homosexuals and transsexuals feel exactly the same way we do. All homosexuals had a mother and a father and maybe, like Pasolini or Zeffirelli, even a relationship of privileged affection with the mother. All these things have instead been shocked by a text that, according to what some associations want, aims directly at marriage, because they want to have children. Well, on the right of a child to be born and to have a father and a mother we do not transgress. Unfortunately, with the bill Cyrinna will happen exactly the opposite. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u17	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Area Group has referred the question of the constitutionality of QP1 and the suspensive question of QS2. I would like briefly to remind you of the basic terms for asking the House to support them. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. Our intention is exactly the opposite: it is to give the possibility to all of us, senators and senators, to carry out and to enact a law that has the certainty of being such, that it is not revocable in nullity for a serious error that we can commit and that we are committing. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I think it is clear to everyone that the procedure we are following is neither provided for in our Rules of Procedure nor in the Constitution. It is an incorrect procedure which can only be sanctioned by the Court. It has already been mentioned by several colleagues who preceded me in the debate last week and even just a few moments ago by Senator Giovanardi: there is the precedent of great importance of the repeal and declaration of unconstitutionality of the Fini-Giovanardi law, precisely because this was not launched by the Parliament then following the correct procedure. Colleagues, we all know, beyond the positions that each of us is forced to take in public debates, that this draft law is in the House without the Commission ever being able to deepen it and not even substantially to deal with it; However, this is an issue which concerns a very sensitive subject which affects important constitutional assets. So I come back to the point, ladies and gentlemen, that mine is an invitation to common sense and rationality. The Senate takes an additional limited time to return to the Justice Commission so that the procedure can be corrected. The procedure - I recall - is clearly explained in Article 72 (1) of the Constitution, where it requires that every bill is examined by each of the Chambers, by a Commission and then by the Chamber itself, which approves it by article with final vote. Article 72, paragraph 1, of the Constitution is taken up in full by Article 44 of our Rules of Procedure, which provides that the reports of the Commission shall be submitted within a maximum period of two months after an examination by the Commission itself. On the other hand, we all know - and I come back to this, ladies and gentlemen - that the text on civil unions currently under discussion has been placed on the agenda of the proceedings of the Senate Assembly without even formally beginning the examination of the matter in the relevant standing committee. Not only that: the opinion of the Bicameral Committee on Children has never been heard, the Commission which is institutionally empowered to contribute to the matter. If this opinion were not acquired, this would provide a further reason for the constitutional court's inconstitutionality and revocation. In the same way, it has failed to hear other institutionally relevant actors, such as the Commission's representatives for the international adoptions of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, but also private actors who have long been engaged in adoptions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning the President of our party, Mr Angelino Alfano, made a public proposal that the Senate should take a limited time - I repeat, no obstructionism - to seek the greatest possible agreement. We are dealing not only with a very delicate subject, but also with a divisive subject, not only of our Assembly, but also of public opinion, of the country. It is a design that cannot and must not be approved by majority shots or, better said, by majority shots, because majorities could also be variable, random; such a delicate theme could not be approved by random majorities. So I come back to say that mine and ours are an invitation to reasonableness, reasoning, rationality. Briefly, in the short time I have left, I remember, as I have already mentioned, that we have presented the question of QP1 unconstitutionality, because also from this point of view the bill presents many inconsistencies. First of all, it is the whole of the measure, especially in its first part, that is contrary to Articles 29 and 31 of the Constitution; a driving conflict, a strong contrast, which cannot but be recognised, where the Constitution underlines that the Republic recognises the rights of the family as a natural society founded on marriage and is called to facilitate with economic measures and other provisions the formation of the family and the fulfilment of the related tasks. Not only that: there is a clear violation of Article 3, where different forms of social training are assimilated to the family regime, whereas Article 3 requires the legislator to treat equal cases in a different way and in a different way. Then, ladies and gentlemen, Article 81 of the Constitution is manifestly infringed, as there is insufficient budgetary coverage, referring to the rules on the extension of the survivor's pension. It is clear and clear that the calculation must be made over a period of at least ten years; instead, the text under consideration assumes a much shorter period. If we had acted in terms consistent with what the Constitution requires, we would have realised that we were faced with compulsory expenditure of a much different dimension, much more important, and therefore the Senate would be forced to give an opinion in the face of an increase in the expenditure of the state planned for a much greater sum: according to calculations that find the consent of many experts, we are talking about a much greater figure than the billion euros. Finally - but it could be continued for a long time - there is a contradiction in the strict law in Article 1 of the bill, which seems insane, since when it is said that civil union is a specific social formation it reserves, then, access to same-sex couples, excluding couples of different sex. Moreover, the principle of equality, for example Article 3 of the draft law, which is a driving violation of that principle is violated. And finally, the bill runs counter to Article 31 of the Constitution, which obliges children to be protected. There would be other points to be made, but I do not want to dwell on them because my time is up. However, I would urge my colleagues to move forward with a vote of freedom, which takes into account the real substance of the issues that we raise and can put all of us, whatever our opinion, in a position to give, after an appropriate examination, a free and constitutionally valid vote. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u20	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it has already been pointed out that this draft law comes to the House without respect for Rule 72 of the Constitution and Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure and in violation of Rule 81 of the Constitution. I hope that the President of the Republic will be able to block this bill, because, Mr President, what has been achieved for this House, as an opportunity to close the debate and vote in fifteen days, could be done in the Commission. On the other hand, the Commission has been given the opportunity to discuss the matter. And yet, Mr President, we have given our support. You take account of the fact that the same bill Cyrinna states, in Article 1, that civil unions are social formations. You will recall the Undersecretary, who was present in the Commission, that this was my indication: specific social training. But the Democratic Group probably did not understand this, since it had to accept it after forty minutes of suspension of work. And you teach me that, after the adoption of the Constitution, since there are comments on the Constitution, those that are de facto couples, whether homosexual or heterosexual, fall into Article 2 of the Constitution. Minister, I have devoted 45 years of my life to the right of people and family. Well, wherever, in any text, social formations are de facto couples, be they heterosexual or homosexual. Anyone who has read a little bit of law knows that social formations are distinguished by the freedom to access them and the freedom to get out of them, which is not achieved by this bill. It is a draft law which introduces strong discrimination, Mr President. According to the 2011 census, we have 1,242,000 de facto couples. Of these, 571,000 are made up of ever married citizens, and the rest are citizens who have not been divorced, except homosexual couples who are 7.523. This means that we are making strong discrimination in our country. Thirty years have passed - Minister Orlando will know - since the presentation, by the communist women in 1986, of the first draft law that finally tried to implement a discipline of de facto couples, a discipline that the Constitutional Court recalled with the judgment n. 138 of 2010. This discipline, Mr President, directly recalls Article 2 of the Constitution. I do not say that, but the constitutionalists and the Constitutional Court say so, which specifically said that, in the discipline of civil unions, Parliament will have to establish a general institute of rights and duties, which is not possible only and exclusively with union with approach to marriage. Indeed, in 2014 the Court reiterated that there can be no homogeneity between civil unions and married couples. He said it by making an explicit call. What is reality instead? It is a reality that is denounced primarily by a government that says that it is absent, that it is not interested in the matter and that it is going back to Parliament. Instead, in an interview with the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" in 2014, the undersecretary, indeed today Deputy Minister, Scalfarotto said: "Civil union is not a lower marriage, but the same thing. Under another name for a question of Realpolitik. But perhaps he did not understand, Mr Scalfarotto, that it is not a question of Realpolitik. The name has its meaning. The social formations are a great intuition due to Moro, due to the Constituents who identified in that article 2, which distinguishes itself from article 29, also the family as social formation. I do not have to teach you, Mr President, but you know that Article 29 was established for the family in order to guarantee a specificity that cannot be achieved with a kind of three-card game, a scam, in the sense that it is written "civil unions" as if it were a social formation under Article 2 of the Constitution, something outside of Article 29. No, because the Cirinna text confirms what Mr Scalfarotto said: the provisions relating to marriage must be applied to civil unions. It is ridiculous because Article 116 of the Civil Code, for example, states that a foreigner who wants to contract marriage must have no objection to marriage itself according to the laws of his own country. So we're not talking about civil unions. Similarly, Article 160 of the Civil Code talks about the rights and duties of spouses and finally, when it comes to Title XIII, about foods, also in this case it shows ignorance because the obligation of food does not mean recalling them, it is necessary to identify what the order is and you all know why there is an order: it is the progressive order that obliges the payment of food. As far as adoption is concerned, someone has tried to mislead attention from the gravity of the mistakes that are being made. These are serious constitutional errors on the equalisation of civil union with marriage. So they talked about stepchild adoption. In fact, if you read Article 3 of the bill, in the last two lines the applicability to civil unions of Title II of the Act on Adoption is excluded but Title III is not excluded and Title IV is not excluded. Title III concerns international adoptions but as reference is made to the conditions laid down in Article 6 it may be considered excluded. Title IV, on the other hand, concerns adoption in particular cases, namely the same adoption which is then extended in all its dimensions to homosexual couples and then corrected in Article 5. Why? Because you want to make the homosexual couple equal to the double couple. You see, Mr President, I believe that everyone knows - or I hope that this is because many times I have been questioning those who participate in television programmes or journalists and never say so - that this legislation does not apply to heterosexuals. That is, a heterosexual citizen who has had a child as a mother who does not intend to be appointed and lives with another woman cannot have his son adopted by his partner according to letter b). You can adopt it according to point (a). Why? Because he is not a spouse's child, referred to in point (b). When this further discrimination is introduced, it is only done to further make civil union acceptable to marriage. And it's a mistake. Mr President, if you have the power, first of all send the measure back to the Commission, because those mistakes will never be able to correct them here, and in any case it would be an act of conformity with the Constitution. At the same time, if we do not think about this, it will be the responsibility of everyone to exclude any reference to the adoption of this measure, because we will talk about it in the adoption measure, which is already under discussion in Parliament. And it would be a serious mistake to deal with it at this time, making it the subject of a reflection on homosexuals. I believe in civil unions of all citizens, heterosexuals or homosexuals, but that they are distinct from marriage. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u21	We greet the students and the teachers of the Hotel Institute "Bratelli Pieroni" in Barga, in the province of Lucca, and of the Technical Industrial Institute "Francesco Vecchiacchi" in Castelnuovo Garfagnana, in the province of Lucca, who today attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u24	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking briefly only to announce the Group's vote against the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u27	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, it is indeed strange to talk about issues of constitutional legitimacy within a political assembly. In fact, the various issues have been exquisitely politically illustrated. Political merit will be discussed and, therefore, I am now trying to be strictly constitutional. On this level there is no doubt that the measure under consideration is by no means constitutionally unlawful; and I try to illustrate very quickly some of the main reasons why there is no constitutional illegitimacy. The first reason is of a case-law nature. We know that the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights have repeatedly established that it might be unconstitutional not to regulate these cases. This is very clear from the case law. I quote only one passage from the 2010 Constitutional Court judgment No 138: In the field of application of Article 2 of the Constitution, it is for Parliament, in exercising its full discretion, to identify the forms of guarantee and recognition for the above-mentioned unions. It is, technically, a judgment not only interpreting rejection but a judgment containing a warning, so in the long run it could be unlawful if Parliament did not approve this law. Secondly, caution is needed when it comes to rights. We talk about rights all the time, but we don't understand the rights of who and what. Many have repeated that there must be a child's right to have a mom and dad. It sounds very good, but it's actually a captious subject. What does that mean? What is the situation for all those who, instead, do not have a mom and a dad? Being orphaned, being abandoned, having one parent is a violation of a right? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Thus, the question, that is, the right to have a mother and a father, becomes not a right, but an obligation, an ethical choice imposed by the State, by the legislator, against the interest of the children. It is a choice at least illiberal, and certainly contrary to the individualist principle set out in Article 2 of the Constitution. If one denies, always talking about rights, the right of a couple to form a union, this means following a dangerous approach of a presumed (and I emphasize presumed) majority that denies rights to minorities and that certainly cannot be the approach desired by the Constitution. Again, the prejudices speak of equalization to marriage and of uterus for rent. They are obviously instrumental arguments and not worthy of particular considerations: we do not speak in the text of uterus for rent, which remains prohibited according to the order, and then the bill is all based on the rigid - in my opinion too much - separation between civil unions, de facto cohabitations and marriage. As for the analogy with marriage, the bill regulates - we know - two institutions: civil unions between persons of the same sex, reserved for homosexual couples (with the introduction of a whole series of provisions), and the coexistence in fact open to all (with a series of minor guarantees). It has been said that in this way heterosexuals are discriminated against, an argument which may seem to be well founded, but which is the consequence of the choice - in my opinion questionable, but certainly not unconstitutional - of not having any point of contact between the institution of civil union and that of marriage: the one remains open only to homosexuals, the other only to heterosexuals; therefore, if this provision were to violate the principle of equality, it should be derived that it violates even the lack of access to marriage. However, since the Constitutional Court has ruled that this is not the case, the provision of a special institute for homosexuals only, as well as marriage reserved only for heterosexuals, is a constitutionally obligatory solution; that is exactly what the Constitutional Court has established in several judgments. The last point I would like to mention is adoptions. As we know, these are only exceptionally anticipated cases, and the criterion, as for adoptions by heterosexual couples, is only the interest of the child; in essence, the requirements are met in the specific and concrete case, and these certainly cannot relate to the sexual orientation of adopters, otherwise it would implicitly mean to consider homosexuality a condition of inadequacy (and I do not think that even the most extreme supporters of the unconstitutionality of this law have come to support so much). Therefore, if there are grounds for unconstitutionality, it is rather the exclusion of adoption for homosexual couples, except in particular cases. However, this caution stems precisely from the approach, followed by this bill, to keep the institution of civil union and that of the family totally - I repeat, even too much - separate. For these reasons, I declare the vote against the questions referred for a preliminary ruling by the Group for the Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE), PD and Mixed]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u28	I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Sacconi and other senators (QP1), Senator Giovanardi and other senators (QP2), Senator Gasparri and other senators (QP3), Senator Quagliariello and other senators (QP4), Senator Compagna and other senators (QP5), Senator Augello and other senators (QP6), Senators Bonfrisco and Bruni (QP7) and Senator Stefani and other senators (QP8). It's not approved. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Since the suspensive questions are all aimed at postponing the examination of the draft law with the indication of different terms to report back to the Assembly, I warn you that the principle of referral back to the Commission will be put to the vote in the first place. In the event of acceptance, the various deadlines for reporting to the Assembly will be put to the vote. I put to the vote the suspensive question, raised with several reasons, by Senator Giovanardi and other Senators (QS1), Senator Sacconi and other Senators (QS2), and Senator Stefani and other Senators (QS3), aimed at putting back to the Commission the draft laws in title. It's not approved. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult for me to tell in a few minutes the extraordinary adventure that I have experienced in these two years of work. It is difficult because, more than matters of law and jurisprudence, I would like to communicate to you the emotions that I felt travelling around Italy, from Aosta to Barletta, meeting thousands of couples, families, militants of all LGBT parties and activists, all citizens interested in changing - and for the better - this country. Most Italians know that the opposite of the word discrimination is equality. Attention: this is not ideology, it is simply justice. Keep this in mind, ladies and gentlemen. Whenever we violate the principle of equality, we will have produced discrimination and will be subject to the reasonable scrutiny of the Constitutional Court. A right can be recognised or denied, and that is what lawyers and judges express themselves on, as rights affect the established order. If a right is recognized without constraints to some and unjustly denied to others, there is discrimination. Another reason for difficulty, which I have faced in the course of the hard work carried out, was the construction of a new legal institution such as that of civil unions between persons of the same sex, although it is personally in favour, like many of us, of the extension of egalitarian marriage. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That is why - and I am very sorry if I have sometimes been a bit abrupt in our discussions - I have tried to explain that the new institution of civil unions in the current fourth version is already a moderate synthesis and any attempt to mediate on rights can lead to new inequalities. I have long wondered whether this text is actually what rainbow families need and whether it is up to their legitimate demands. It has been difficult because I have experienced on my skin the implications of a debate that has been poisoned since the very long debate in the Commission, which has weighed down a very complicated parliamentary process in itself. We have chosen the path of civil unions to meet criteria of prudence, in the belief that full equality can be achieved step by step. At the same time, this is a choice that does not prejudice or ignore the demand for recognition that comes from homosexual couples and ensures an adequate level of protection to them and above all to their children. [[Applause from the Group]] Regarding the issues of unconstitutionality raised around this proposal, thinking of the provision and our Constitutional Charter, I wanted to address my thoughts to the great women of our Republic such as Nilde Lots, Teresa Noce, Lina Merlin, clear and clear examples of a real politics of humanity. I think of their deep sensitivity to the thousand nuances of the family universe that demanded constitutional recognition; I think of the battles for equality between spouses and equality between children, concepts that are still explosive today, when they seem to have been centuries since the work of the constituent Fathers. Now, in 2016 - almost thirty years after the first proposal for recognition for same-sex couples - we are preparing to give Italy a much-awaited law. I look at Article 2 of the Constitution, on which the measure under discussion is based; I look at Article 29, unquestionably at the heart of our parliamentary debate. I think of their indissoluble correlation, of the dual individualist and pluralist dimension for the fight against totalitarianism of State, which affects, as Aldo Moro says, first of all the family, in order to be able, through this way, more easily to affect the freedom of the person. For this reason, the institute of public law of civil union is crystal clear in line with Article 2 of our Charter, whereby the State, recalling the words of La Pira, does nothing but recognize and protect rights prior to the Constitution of the State, which are rights of individuals, rights of societies or natural communities, where the word "natural", far from crystallizing a certain cultural or religious meaning, simply wanted to affirm its pre-juridical character, as a reaction to the authoritarian approach of family law that had characterized the Fascist State. The Constitution is a process of liberation of the human person, naturally unfinished and to be continually renewed in a spirit of solidarity cooperation. The Constitution was written having in mind the past, the present and the future, considering who already had the voice to make himself heard and who had not yet found space in the political community, such as homosexual people, object of a pervasive and painful social stigma. These people for too long absent and silent, today we finally make them present to the rest of the political community, we recognize their experience of family life as a reality worthy of protection, because it relates to their personal dignity. So, concretely, we realize that part of the Constitution written for the absent, those absent (individual adults, children, families) that finally become present, with equal rights and dignity already recognized to the other citizens. Colleagues, I ask you: on which side do we want to be found by our children and our grandchildren, when in thirty years will they return to read the Reports of this session? On the side of those who thought it possible to make Italy move the first and long-awaited step towards equality, or on the side of those who saw the heritage of the privileged few in the Constitution and the extension of rights as a danger? However, I am thinking about how much disinformation and political exploitation have misled public debate. The phrase I find most false is that in Italy we are introducing marriage and gay adoption. This is not true: we are simply giving legal protection to the private and family life of homosexual couples, through civil unions, based on Article 2 of the Constitution, as indicated by the Constitutional Court itself, in the judgments of 2010 and 2014, and we are, then, recognizing only one of the parts of the civil union to ask the judge the possibility of extending parental responsibility on the minor child of the partner, through the application of the law on adoptions, already applied by the courts of minors, since considered that it allows the greater protection of the child, even in case of death of the natural parent. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, the scariest ghosts have stirred up. For weeks we have been reading in newspapers that, in doing so, we risk opening the way in Italy to the institute of gestation for others. I do not have to mention here in Parliament that one of our laws, No 40 of 2004 on medically assisted procreation, almost entirely rewritten by the Council, expressly prohibits and punishes the practice of gestation for others. This ban is and will remain in force and in no way does the text we are discussing today interfere with this ban. It is therefore a misleading and instrumental argument. The point is one: our system does not allow discrimination between children, based on the legal framework of the relationship between parents, and does not allow discrimination between heterosexuals and homosexuals in relation to the assessment of their ability to be parents, nor does it allow discrimination between children, because of the way they came into the world. In view of all this, it is clear that the child's interest in the stability and continuity of affections must always prevail. They are children, they are citizens of this country and today we will decide on their future: they deserve to be recognized and protected. In Article 5, we take a decisive first step towards their protection, in the concrete situation in which they are living, on the basis of common sense and the constitutional imperative of equality and without taking away rights from anyone. I shall begin by concluding, Mr President, and I will quickly explain the second ambitious objective of this measure: the codification of the rights of cohabiting, homosexual or heterosexual couples. Chapter II of the text means to live together two persons, not relatives, permanently united by emotional ties of couples and mutual moral and material assistance. All those who live together more uxorio, without distinctions based on the sexual orientation of the members of the couple, are recognized some rights and duties, already widely sanctioned by established jurisprudences. In conclusion, in the coming days, ladies and gentlemen, we will be called, as senators of the Republic, to respond as representatives of an Italy that works, that does projects, that loves, that wants to return to the modernity of a Europe to be built on the basis of the inclusion and equal treatment of citizens. As senators of the Republic we are therefore called to give protection to all the children of an Italy that can no longer tolerate discrimination generated by the way in which a life comes to the world. (17.34) (Followed by Cyrinna). We must respond to the young LGBT, who in our schools prepare and be the Italians and Europeans of tomorrow. We are obliged to give each of them an answer before the oppressive burden of discrimination pushes others to escape abroad or suicide. That is why I will always bear in my heart the words of two young friends, for whom the recognition of the State to their life plans would be the possibility of existence for the first time. "Exist for my country" - says one of them - "exist, as if you were to be born" - "exist, without thinking that you have wronged my family." Colleagues senators, we will be called to make a choice and there will be no polls that will justify another day of delay, there will be no exhaustive enough reasons to allow the perpetuation of the lawlessness of our country in front of the rest of Europe. There will be no excuse for the umpteenth door closed in front of those who only ask to become part of the great community of Italian families, without subtracting anything from all the other families of our country. As it is clear now, we are examining a text that addresses in a broad and inclusive way all forms of affective relations, be they heterosexual or homosexual, aiming to recognize rights and also obligations to social realities to date remained in the shadow of our legal order, even though they are present in living law. I would like to conclude this speech with the memory of a very great Italian, missed for a few days, the director of "Una giorno particolare" (A particular day), Ettore Scola, who used to say: "We must believe in miracles, especially those made by man and commit ourselves to the realization of dreams and utopias. To do this, ladies and gentlemen, it takes total and collective responsibility. We certainly will not perform miracles, but we have the task of making a good law. In this way we will give dignity and protection to the lives of so many of our citizens, because rights cannot and must not remain dreams. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Congratulations.]] Mr President, I would like to add the full text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u30	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u31	Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to say at once that I am and will be completely indifferent if, at the outcome of my speech, someone wants to identify me, who have a completely secular view of life, as a bigot, or if any operetta general wishes to ask my party for sanctions against me, as he has done with regard to Mr Calabria, who is solely responsible for legitimately expressing his thoughts. I listened carefully to the intervention of Senator Cirinna, who said with remarkable sycumera that it is absolutely false that civil unions constitute in reality a marriage between gays under false name. This is a problem that will concern President Mattarella, who will obviously not forget his studies and mainly will not forget to have been part of that high assembly that is the Constitutional Court, which has expressed itself in the sense of recognizing to couples, as social formations, rights, but the Supreme Court has also added that the relative discipline cannot be superimposed on marriage. Senator Cirinna says that it is false that the discipline of civil unions is comparable to that of marriage. And then, with great tranquility, I quote his bill: Two adult persons of the same sex constitute a civil union by declaring before the civil state officer and the presence of two witnesses, identical to the norm for the constitution of the marriage: go and see the civil code. As for the dissolution of civil union, it takes place through the laws on separation and divorce, that is, the same ones that lead to the final definition of marriage. Not only that, but beyond this identity between the constitutive act and the final act of civil unions with marriage, in the text of Senator Cirinna's bill we read, in article 3, paragraph 3, that the same norms governing marriage apply to civil unions. And, in paragraph 4, that all provisions relating to the spouse, spouses or equivalent terms, i.e. that wife and husband who were the subject of Article 1 of the bill The Judge on Egalitarian Marriage, apply to the partner of the civil union. Again, the partner of civil unions applies the law of succession that provides the legitimate to the spouse. I am well aware that publications have not been foreseen, but these do not seem to belong to the world of rights and, consequently, I believe that President Mattarella will have to reflect for a long time before signing this law, being clear its unconstitutionality, which cannot be overcome by a parliamentary vote. In any case, if this does not happen, the Constitutional Court will have a lot to do and so, when the time comes, we will understand whether it is false or not that civil unions are an overlap with marriage. Senator Caliendo recently recalled how this law on civil unions affects 7,100 homosexual couples and recalled that in this law there is a retrocessive discipline for heterosexual couples who in this country are 1,422,000 and have 150,000 children. So, the first question I would like to ask is: if homosexual civil unions are a social formation, aren't heterosexual couples also? When the Constitution recalls the social formations and the rights of the members of those homosexual or heterosexual social formations, which you say you want, it identifies at that time the discrimination that belongs to this law, a treatment for homosexual civil unions and a completely different treatment for heterosexual couples. Mr President, Senators, this is a demonstration that civil unions are exactly a gay marriage because, if they were not, there really would be no point in predicting and having foreseen a different treatment for couples of fact that they are, according to the Constitutional Court, social formations and they always enjoy, according to the same, the same rights and the same expectations, unless, furbishedly, they wanted to imagine - I do not know why - a retrocessive treatment for couples of fact heterosexual in order to induce them to marriage. I often hear that heterosexual couples can get married. It is true, but provided that the civil law of 1975 is changed, which is now absolutely far from the reality of everyday life. That civil law was born with the idea that marriage was essentially indissoluble and, in modifying, for example, successor rights, imagined a more favorable treatment of the spouse who was supposed to be the parent of the children. Today's situation is completely different: we have three or four marriages. I believe that these reasonings can often accompany the members of heterosexual couples. And if that is true - because I imagine that within this set of nearly 1.5 million heterosexual couples there will be at least 7,100 who make these reasonings - it would have been necessary to have special attention also for heterosexual couples. But the Constitutional Court will also intervene on this: inevitably, when the heterosexual cohabitant will testify - or will not testify - or will favor her partner, he can only recall the legislation of Senator Cirinna and ask the Constitutional Court to account why the partner of the civil union can refrain from testifying, while the member of a heterosexual couple can not do so; because the partner of the civil union can commit the crime of personal aiding while not being punishable and the partner of the cohabitant in fact cannot do so because it will be punishable. But, as I said before, you'll see about that. The second point is that dealt with in Article 5. Let us say, first of all, that the child of the biological father or biological mother is not destined to remain alone and unprotected; those who say this say something not true and in bad faith. Article 44 (a) of Law No 184 of 1983, in fact, provides that, in the event of the death of the biological parent, those who have had a life-long habit with that child may proceed to adoption. We therefore avoid making amendments calling into question the judge's decision. Senator Lumia, always decides the judge in adoptions, you don't need to write it down in an amendment. And the judge will always decide by paying attention to the child's interest; there are no automatic procedures. What is the flaw in Article 5, at least from my point of view? A generalization of very different situations, with a uniqueness of discipline. The partner's son had from a previous marriage or history is a hypothesis; the partner's son had with heterologous fertilization is another hypothesis; the child had with surrogate motherhood is another hypothesis. These three hypotheses differ substantially for a concept of not little account: the first two arise from a legitimate and legal assumption; the third arises from an illegitimate and illegal assumption, contrary to the public order regulations of this country (and on this I will return). I believe, then, that, if the problem of Article 5 is to vote for the adoption of the partner's son from a previous marriage or from a previous history or had according to the practices of heterologous fertilization, absolutely legitimate in Italy to the outcome of the decision of the Constitutional Court, I imagine that each of us will be able to vote according to his own plan of society, knowing well that this law is destined to have a very, very strong social impact. But if, by hypothesis, the problem is, instead, to allow the adoption of the child had through surrogate motherhood, to those who often recall Europe and the western world let me remind you that, except for Ukraine and Russia (which I do not think belong to this world), for Canada, for some States of the United States, for England and for Greece, the whole Western world prohibits surrogate motherhood. In many of these states - I could make the list, I remember Austria - it is considered a crime. Therefore, the Western world has a judgment of dishonor with regard to surrogacy quite similar to ours and can not really bring water to the mill of those who intend to say that Europe asks us or that the Western world asks us and that, as Don Alfonso said: "So fan all". Not only that. Do you realize - although for a residual part, it can happen - that, by making possible the adoption of the child of a surrogate motherhood - women and men of the left, for years you have talked about this - allowed to those who are rich - it takes at least 100,000 euros for a surrogate motherhood - to take full advantage of the body of a woman? Excuse me, you men and women on the left, but is there a greater exploitation of a woman's body (other than paying her) than having her taken for nine months, given birth and then taken away her son? How can you not be in contradiction with what you told us until the day before yesterday? You even came to ask for the removal of the immediate divorce, because it seemed ugly to you to take away the three months separation for the divorce. Have you been so careful and conservative - if you'll allow me - on that occasion, and now you're heading for an adventure that you don't know the horizon for no reason? You know that I come from the world of the judiciary and, beyond the ideas and political perspectives, I believe that, when we make laws, we must also pay attention to the general principles of the order and to what the judges tell us. And then I would like to make it clear to everyone - it probably escaped in the course of the debate - that the Court of Cassation, by judgment of 11 November 2014, No 24001, clearly and clearly said that surrogacy is a rule contrary to international and domestic public order and, as such, cannot allow what you would like to allow with the bill Cirinna. But I would add that in that sentence it is expressly said that there is no right of the child to be recognized by the couple who commissioned surrogacy [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Albertini and Milo]] As much as there is no right to be parents in this country. I repeat that there is no right of the child to be recognized by the couple who commissioned surrogacy. The Court of Cassation adds that the European Court of Human Rights, if it has touched on this point, has done so on a completely different occasion, arguing that the only right of the child is to be recognised by his biological father, because only that recognition confirms the right to his personal identity. So Europe is not helping you in this respect, too, by saying something different. I'll finish up, if you like, with a paradox. You do not wash your conscience by saying that so much surrogacy is carried out in Canada, in the United States and certainly not here in Italy, when then, through the mechanism referred to in Article 5, you basically recognize its effects. And then, if you are so progressive, so free and convinced that society is now ahead of the back where center-right parliamentarians or the Catholics of the Democratic Party move, step all the way. Make an amendment: abolish the surrogacy ban and avoid considering this practice as a crime, so you can at least tell the country in clear terms that you are in favour of it. Stop saying that you are not when, precisely through being in favour of recognizing its effects, you do nothing but favor them. [[Applause from the FI-PdLXVII and AP(NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u33	I greet the students and teachers of the Aeronautics Institute - Scientific Lyceum "Antonio Locatelli" in Bergamo who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I start with a question: is Italy the taillight compared to the other countries of the European Union, as President Renzi says, or does it represent and can stand as a guide in order to create a new Europe, that Europe of the peoples and freedoms that we dream and want to build? A Europe united from below, starting from local and territorial realities, which exalts the offer of diversity and identity of each Member State in the common European home; a political Europe and not just a mercantilist Europe; a Europe that is able to respect the national sovereignty of the many peoples that make up it, that recognizes its roots, especially those of Christians, and that sees in its children its strength, its future and, therefore, its very survival. I have already given a credible answer to my initial question instinctively, but I am aware that it is not enough to insinuate doubt in the consciences that have been dormant for years of ideological propaganda. Before arguing my reasoning in an attempt to scratch the ideology that inspires the bill under consideration, I would like to remind you of the recent victory of the Slovenian people who, not conditioned by the European diktat, with a referendary consultation said no to the plan of demolition of the family promoted by the LGBT lobby, thus sinking the proposal to recognize the marriage between homosexual people and the consequent openings to legitimize the adoption of children. I would remind you that, unlike anyone who would like to believe, the European Union has not been given a specific competence on a general basis in relation to the family, and that no provision has been found in the Treaties concerning a transfer of sovereignty, albeit partial, by the Member States. On the basis of the general principle of conferring powers on the Community institutions, not least as a result of the amendments to the Treaties introduced by the Lisbon reform, it is not a matter for the family, which therefore remains under the sovereignty of the States. However, with the enlargement of the Community's powers and objectives, which was determined by the Maastricht Treaty, beyond those strictly mercantilistic, there was interference between the completion of the single market and the regulation of the status of persons and family relations. Thus, while there is no direct Community competence to regulate this type of relationship substantially, the action of the institutions has increased the impact on family law to the extent that the relevant rules in force in the individual Member States are affected. At a first stage, marked by the adoption of non-binding acts, especially by the European Parliament, such as, for example, the numerous resolutions on the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, including the one on equal rights for homosexuals in the European Community, followed a second phase in which the impact of the European integration process was becoming increasingly significant, both because of the nature of the acts which took the form of binding Community instruments and because of the aims pursued. The impact of European Union law on national family law has also been achieved through the protection of fundamental rights of which the Court of Luxembourg has been the main promoter. Today, following the entry into force of the Lisbon reform, a codification of fundamental rights, which is also legally equivalent to that of the Treaties, also exists at the level of the European Union and is, as is well known, identified in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. It is in this confused scenario that the unjustified interference written in just 170 characters by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Thorbjørn Jagland, finds a gap: I encourage Italy to ensure legal recognition for same-sex couples, as established by the European Court of Human Rights ruling of 21 July 2015 and as is the case in most of the Council of Europe Member States. I want to make it clear that we are not surprised at this, but we remain grounded in how these interferences on our national sovereignty can affect our government. In this disappointing Europe, where economic reason alone prevails, an occasional internal policy, an irresponsible management of immigration, an obnoxious foreign policy, the defence of national sovereignty over issues of such political importance becomes a flag to be made absolutely garish in the name of truth. The battle of identity, characterized by the defence of peoples in their territorial, religious and cultural dimension, has always been the backbone of all the political activity of the Northern League. This battle, which began many years ago, has been confronted over time with problems (such as uncontrolled immigration, the loss of values and religious references, the usurpation of the sovereignty of peoples, the widespread sense of insecurity and mistrust in the political class) which have gained ever greater weight in national and international current affairs and have destructured the traditional modus vivendi of Western European civilization. The globalist model, without frontiers for goods as for men, marked by a search for global peace, based solely on the recognition of a uniform lifestyle, where what counts is only production and consumption, has imploded, leaving behind very serious metastases. And the failure of Schengen proves that. We were forced to launch repeated shouts of alarm in the face of the abandonment of our roots. Our work of denunciation has been constant and targeted, together with an activity of proposal and stimulus to successive governments, international institutions and the country for the adoption of appropriate measures. Our past, our history and our own culture must not be forgotten, but must be placed as a strong bulwark against the loss of values that we are constantly witnessing. It is absurd to assume that this Europe can influence the Member States on the issue of family exclusivity as a natural society founded on marriage and on the primary and incontrovertible protection of the interests of children to have a family, which in no way can be opposed to the desire for parenthood. What political dignity does this Europe have in order to insistently influence the decisions of the Member States by violating their own sovereignty? It is a Europe that has been able to deny its own roots, those Christian roots that have brought mainly moral and spiritual meanings by elaborating the concept of psyche, the idea of man capable of understanding and wanting, the importance of the care of the soul, the value and centrality of man as a person in relationship with others and with God, promoting the values of equality, tolerance and freedom as well as the greatness of the humble, placing at the centre of human existence the principle of love. When we talk about the secularity of democratic institutions, as well as the autonomy of politics, we refer to the fundamental principles of a rule of law, set to pursue and guarantee the common good, religious freedom and worship of all. Colleagues, today we live in a climate of deep identity crisis. We see more and more in our modern society, or rather post-modern, the emergence of a syncretistic individualism. This increases individual particularism and selfishness, and you have the impression that you are moving towards an age when there is no longer anything worthwhile. All this, if pushed to excess, can only lead to separation, conflict and violence. Relativism and syncretism are the consequence of a culture in which empty appearance seems to prevail over substance; values have become more and more sensations. A Europe that wants to be united, not only theoretically but also and above all in substance, cannot ignore the formal recognition of its roots as a founding element and characterising its history. On more than one occasion, the peoples of Europe have spoken out against the treaties which have been submitted for their approval, not least because they have not recognized in them the protection of their origins and their identity. 18.07 (Follow Arrigoni). A Europe that renounces its soul is destined to die, just as every human reality cannot survive without roots. Europe today is a building without identity, poorly democratic, cumbersome and often incomprehensible to citizens; a model that exasperates the negative aspects of the centralized state, without giving tangible answers to the demands coming from the periphery; a Europe that introduced the single currency before achieving sufficient cultural, political, social and above all economic homogeneity. It is clear that the current construction of Europe is characterised by regulatory force and political weakness. Today, more than ever, it is clear how this Europe has proved to be a failure, and not only because it has produced a frightening economic crisis - not cyclical but epochal - but above all because it has denied national cultures and, consequently, the cultural identity of the continent. The European Union now seems no longer to limit its power to interfere in the internal decisions of each sovereign state, far beyond the actual powers authorized by the Treaties. Premier Renzi, in terms of civil rights, Italy is not the taillight compared to other countries of the European Union. We do not like this measure because the qualification of specific social formations related to gay couples who will be able to take advantage of a new legal institution of public law called civil union, represents the Trojan horse so that, by judicial means, they introduce both the marriage of homosexuals and the practice of the uterus for rent. Europe, which - I stress - does not require us to legitimise gay marriages, could not, however, endorse this B-series marriage, making it inevitable to equate it to marriage by judicial means, on the basis of a principle of non-discrimination also with regard to adoptions. And for the same principle, it would then be inevitable to allow the gay couple access to medically assisted procreation techniques, which, due to obvious impediments of nature, could be but heterologous. And the serious thing is that, in the case of male partners, the abominable practice of the uterus for rent would also be used. On the rights of cohabitation and de facto couples to be extended to homosexual couples we are willing to reason, but the North League is against stepchild adoption; it is against the equivalence between civil unions and marriage. The North League does not flatten itself to the dominant thought of forces that use articulated strategies to reach its own goal, which is the ancient one to disrupt the traditions, the cultural, social and religious identity of our people in order to impose a model of society that will prove to be bankrupt. Alfano and the men of the NCD come out for the excerpt of these two aspects, but they will remain with the cerino in hand, certainly with some armchair of Government and sub-government in addition. As a sad script, they will agree to play the subalternal role as an irrelevant component of the majority, knowing that in the Assembly the left has already provisionally found in the senators of the 5 Star Movement of benchmen ready to be exploited to shore up the government on this occasion. The citizens, the families and all those who in recent months, worried, protested against the bill and manifested at the Family Day (I refer not only to that of last Saturday at the Circus Maximus, but also to that of 20 June last year in St. John's Square) know that they will be mocked by Alfano and that the threats of serious repercussions for the understanding between the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement will fall once again into the void. If the bill in question were to be approved, in Italy we would have homosexual marriage with the possibility of adoptions and with the consequent legitimization of the practice of the uterus for rent, not to mention that all this would totally open the doors to the indoctrination of the gender theory in schools. It is for this reason that stopping this measure, in addition to being a moral duty, underlies the clear choice to make sovereignty prevail over the logic of the powers that have usurped the political dignity of Europe in which we believe. Surveys say that about 75% of the Italian population is opposed to adoptions for homosexual couples: it is confirmation that our people are tired of servants and butlers always ready to respond when the European Union orders. And, if he could express himself with his vote - as he has already shown with street mobilizations that will remain in history - he would write black on white that the family is one and no one should even remotely dare to violate the sacred right of children to be born from a mother and dad, since the same children are not products and cannot be claimed by parent 1 or parent 2. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u35	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u36	Madam President, for many weeks with brighter tones, and for decades with too little attention on the part of politics, we have been discussing the draft law on civil unions in the country. In recent years Parliament has tried several times to deal with the issue of civil unions, de facto unions and cohabitations, with the presentation of several draft laws that have never been approved and often not even discussed. All the time the country has divided between supposed supporters of Catholic and lay morals, among supposed guardians of the family more than others (but above all of the family of others), and in this way the legislative proposals have been dormant. This is a responsibility that rests on the shoulders not only of the Members who have alternated, but of all those who in those years held high political and institutional positions even at a young age. It is a risk of course well-presented this time too: after the squares and numbers have been challenged, it is now up to Parliament, starting from the Senate, to do its job. The work is simple: it is a matter of extending the rights, as provided for in the Constitution. The constituent assembly was very far-sighted because, with the combined provisions of Articles 2, 3 and 29 of the Constitution, it left the way open to the extension of rights for all in a country that, in the following years, would have been faced with profound economic, social and cultural transformations and that would finally allow to live freely the relationships of love, to choose, not to be ashamed and not to have to hide. This was the story of freedom that we have seen in Italy since the important stages of divorce and abortion. That is what we mean when we talk about freedom of choice: extending the rights to guarantee freedom of choice and broadening the sphere of rights to extend guarantees for all. The theme we should talk about is not whether we can recognize as families even those realized among people of the same sex because, while we discuss, in reality they are already family, as are all heterosexual couples who choose not to get married. The issue we would really like to discuss is what welfare policies in support of families we should pursue, waiting for today - as we denounced in the debate on the law of stability - there are no adequate resources and actions in support of family welfare. And we are talking about support for motherhood; we are talking about being able to use maternity and paternity leave without the employer noticing the abuse of it; we are talking about nursery schools and state nursery schools for all; we are talking about guaranteeing the right to study; we are talking about protecting motherhood in the workplace; we are talking about reconciling time; we are talking about free time to take care of dependent adults; we are talking about deductions and tax advantages for families; we are talking about social security benefits by categories; we are talking about support for parenting, minimum income and impact on gender equality. It is a list that could be endless. On the other hand, we prefer to have a rear-guard debate which is not at all in line with Europe, precisely that Europe which we always invoke as a reference point for economic and austerity policies and never in terms of rights. In Italy, not only do we seem to live in the past, but we have even moved the debate back to years and years. I would like to point out, in fact, that there is not only the recognition of families with same-sex parents in question, but also the possibility for those who choose it to get married. This is the biggest demand that is being made by the world's LGBT. It is no coincidence that the discussion has always been between gay marriage and de facto unions or civil unions for all. It is not by chance - for example - that we at SEL filed, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, separate legislative proposals. So what happened? It happened that the PD assumed responsibility to propose a text that cancels marriage between people of the same sex, introduces civil unions and then cohabitations; a choice that was presented as a result of mediation and we would like to understand with whom this mediation was made. It has not been done with its majority because, from what we see and listen to, we do not think it is a text shared by the whole majority; certainly not with the reference associations, because their demands are much wider. We have an answer, and it is simple: Renzi's proposal in the 100 points of Leopolda 2012. This bill, which we at SEL consider to be a text down, the minimum that can be presented, is the official proposal that the Democratic Party offers to the country - because, as the rapporteur told us just now - has been quite mediated. Thus, the legal text presented as the beacon of civil rights in Italy is nothing more than a downward compromise to try to keep together the need of the President of the Council to include among his reform package also that of civil rights (we already hear echoing fans: He is the only one who has succeeded, his vision of marriages and the catholicism that he gives in this country. It is the second part of the law, in fact, from Article 11 onwards, that governs the coexistences, the one no one ever talks about, to reveal how instead the reading that the majority makes of Article 29 of the Constitution is a guarantee so that civil unions will never be equated with marriage. Heterosexual couples may enter into a contract of cohabitation with a public act by a notary to regulate property relationships or for mutual assistance; they must carry out it in written and autograph form, or, in case of impossibility of writing it, in the presence of a witness. We are, therefore, faced with a restrictive interpretation of Article 29 of the Constitution, corroborating the idea that natural families are only those made up of those who decide to marry. We give another reading: when the Constitution speaks of the natural family, the Constituents did not think of the gender of man-woman, but of the naturalness with which love, affection, mutual solidarity, esteem, respect and children constitute a natural family. Talking only about stepchild adoption, an indispensable right for a civil country, is a bit like trying to distance attention from the text as a whole. The problem is not to understand what effects may occur on children raised in a family with parents of the same sex, because studies already exist. Perhaps you want to tell us that you have never known anyone who has lived only with female reference figures or only with male figures over the years? Do you want to deny that for years, entire natural families have only had a reference figure for the growth of their children? To grow up do not count the genres of reference, but the quality of care, love and attention to children. Does the problem of the uterus for rent arise? This law doesn't even talk about it. It would have been interesting to talk about adoptions even for couples of parents of the same. In this case, too, I would like to remind you that this same majority rejected, not so long ago, an amendment which tried to introduce it. Not even this is the subject of the text under consideration. The extension and recognition of a right concerns the whole of Parliament and not a single part or a single majority, which, among other things, I remember would not even have the numbers to approve the law. That is why we are very concerned about the subliminal messages we are beginning to receive, so the text, even if it is changed to the worst - I am thinking of the famous formula of reinforced foster care - should still be approved, otherwise the road to civil rights reforms is stopped, as has been the case in recent years. We want to say, however, that on civil rights we cannot joke, we cannot campaign and we cannot force ourselves, using state propaganda. On civil rights we all have a duty to look far away. It must be clear to all those who are following this debate, both inside and outside the parliamentary classrooms, that it is not true that this law, if adopted, will only be the first step, which they will then be able to follow, in the coming years, extensions or improvements. We must be aware and honest, in telling everyone that it is realistic that this debate and its quality will close the game for many years: in fact, it is a game that will be difficult to reopen shortly. It will take many more years for one to arrive, even in Italy, to have, for same-sex couples, the enjoyment full of important rights, which they deserve: today we are choosing not to recognize the marriage between people of the same sex, nor the civil unions for all. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Petraglia. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). I'm finishing, Madam President. For us at SEL, in order to enter secular Europe and rights, we should do precisely this: recognize marriages between two people of any kind and recognize civil unions for all those who choose to live together. That is the point of our amendments and we will try, in the debate these days, to open a secular and useful debate, because we too would like to make a good law. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Bocchino, Campanella and Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u37	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u38	Madam President, ten years ago, when I wrote a book on the great demographic changes in Italy and Europe, I voted in favour of the marriage of homosexuals, while expressing strong doubts as to whether we should recognise de facto couples as a legal institution. I also stated that it was necessary to regulate the public value of the rights and duties of individuals who live together, again regardless of their sexual orientation, because cohabitation has become, even in Italy, a normal passage of couple life. As far as couples are concerned, I hope that my opinion then can be translated into law. In order to do this, the current basic text, Title II, should, however, be substantially amended, as some of the amendments I supported also propose. Automatisms must be removed, which constitute a new legal institution, in a very confusing way. The text speaks, for example, of stable coexistence, without defining what stability is. It seems to understand that this is a cohabitation which would automatically begin when the common personal residence is fixed. In addition, the individual nature of what is set out in the new rules should be clarified by generalising the contractual elements of the pact between the two partners. As the Constitutional Court has made clear, unlike homosexual couples, heterosexual couples who want to stabilise and make public their emotional union can get married, all the more so because this Parliament has made marriage much more flexible, making its dissolution much easier and faster. After all, it is wrong to think of marriage as an old tool now in disuse. Some European countries, heralds of marital and reproductive changes, are experiencing a real revival of marriage. In Sweden, the marriage rate in 2013 was 5.3 per thousand inhabitants, which is 20% more than in 2000 and 65% more than in Italy in 2013. With regard to homosexual unions, the Constitutional Court recognised their constitutional value in its 2010 ruling, but did not equate them with marriage. The Court recognizes a difference that lies not so much in the will of the constituent Fathers, which evidently could not consider social phenomena that still did not exist in the form and extent of the present, but in the different status of homosexual unions, which cannot access the natural generation. The Court, thus expressing itself, has grasped the sensitivity of the country, as shown by the last months of surveys and direct interlocutions with the people. Italians, especially the youngest, are mostly open to the legal recognition of stable homosexual couples. A large majority, however, young, adult and elderly, express strong concerns about the involvement of homosexual couples in the generation and education of children. Moreover, it should be remembered that in almost all countries the legal regulation of homosexual unions has proceeded in successive steps. When we legislate on these sensitive issues, the position of public opinion must be well taken into account, and not because in making laws we must be guided by polls, but because part of these laws will most likely be at great risk of referendums; a referendum that, with the desirable approval of constitutional reforms, can be valid with a quorum much lower than the current one (today I remember that it would be 35%). A few weeks ago, in Slovenia, a secularized society, where more than half of the children were born out of marriage, a large referendary majority repealed homosexual marriage, while maintaining a law on civil unions between people of the same sex. Therefore, it is up to us the difficult task of keeping our personal convictions in the background, interpreting the sensitivity of the country by passing a law that does not conflict with the pronunciation of the Consulta and contesting the aspirations of all the subjects involved, starting from the weakest ones that - as Monica Cirinna has remembered - have no voice and can speak only through us. Among these weak people, we cannot forget the women who accept to act as pregnant women for others: it is a practice that is seen in a very negative way by a very large part of public opinion and the feminist movement, which is now in the French Parliament to condemn this practice, as well as by the Strasbourg Parliament. Moreover, it is a practice allowed in very few countries, where women often find themselves a taxable person, having to accept - for example - an abortion contract if this is decided by the client or to have no relationship with the child born of pregnancy. The combination between the current basic text and the possibility of taking advantage of maternity surrogacy abroad determines something different from the adoption of the stepson. For couples of homosexual men, in fact, the only way to have a child, however perceived by them as fully own and shared, is to take advantage of the pregnancy of another woman or two women, exactly as happens for a heterosexual couple when the woman is unable to have a child. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Dalla Zuanna, finish your speech. WRITER IN ZUANNA (PD). I'll be right out. For this reason, a group of thirty senators tabled an amendment, at my first signature, which, for Italian citizens, renders illegal the surrogacy of motherhood even if carried out abroad, both for homosexual couples and heterosexual couples, however, giving the judge the possibility to register in Italy the act of birth of the child with the indication of the biological parent, in the name of the child's superior interest. I believe that we must make a good law, with great care, keeping as I do the Constitution and the good of all those involved, especially those who have no voice. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u39	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u40	Madam President, by discussing the draft law on civil unions, we are called to a task of very high political, ethical and cultural significance, because the text that will emerge from this debate will redesign - and I hope it will widen - the boundaries of our social coexistence. We should be able to do so beyond the ideologies, historical fences and mutual delegitimacy that have marked Italian public life, and not only in the field of civil rights. So let's start with an objective examination of the current legislation and the changes implemented by way of case law. The first fact is unequivocal: the European system is clearly expressed for the recognition of de facto unions, including homosexuals. In addition, Directive 2000/78/EC commits the Member States of the Union to adapt their legislation in the light of the removal of any disparities in treatment and the fight against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. Compliance with this directive, which was first implemented by Legislative Decree No 216 of 2003, also means that there is no difference in treatment between heterosexual and homosexual couples in the regulation of civil unions. But there is another important reason why the legislator has a duty to intervene in order to avoid that on this ground too, as happened, for example, on the electoral law, we find ourselves then having to chase the Constitutional Court, which, in judgment No 138 of 2010, supported with a solemn warning to Parliament that the stable cohabitations formed by couples of homosexual persons are entitled to a full legislative recognition of a set of rights and duties on the basis of the value that Article 2 of the Constitution recognizes to the social formations in which the personality develops. The problem of the unconstitutionality of civil unions for homosexual couples has been raised authoritatively because the German model, originally inspired by the Cirinna bill, effectively equates these unions with the rights and duties of marriage. In Cirinna's text the couple are granted health care rights, prison, union or separation of property, taking over the lease, reversibility of the pension and the duties provided for married couples. Article 3, which is at the heart of the measure, has been amended in relation to the basic text. This does not mean that the rights of marriage will not be extended, but the rapporteur has tried to meet those who did not want to talk explicitly about marriage. The reference is no longer, in fact, to Article 29 of the Constitution on the rights of the family based on marriage, but to Article 2 which expressly provides for the protection of the inviolable rights of man in social formations. Is this a balance? Perhaps, but by drawing up a specific rule for unions between persons of the same sex, we can maintain the specificity of marriage and the central character of society that is recognized by the Constitution to the family, specifying instead that the material conditions of civil unions determine the access, precisely, to tax, social security or hereditary benefits. If the rules aim to protect the stability of couple relations, without confusing them with marriage, they can achieve an improvement in the civil order, which is precisely a secular legislation. But here another problem has been raised, particularly by Senator Caliendo: Parliament must also take into account citizens who live in a condition of stable coexistence, characterized by emotional ties and which have the fundamental right to live freely as a couple. In this situation there are heterosexual and homosexual citizens. These are social formations which Article 2 of the Constitution recognises and guarantees. The Cirinna text, on the other hand, attributes the rights and duties of spouses to homosexual couples only, as well as the text presented by Mr Carfagna to the House. However, one cannot ignore the fact that there is a constitutional balance when only heterosexual couples can access marriage. However, this is a point to be deepened because I believe that anything can be allowed to Parliament except to adopt legislation that is open to creative solutions by the ordinary judiciary. Let's go back to article 5 on stepchild adoption. The European Courts have long established that, once a State of the Union approves a law on civil unions, any unequal treatment between civil unions and marriage, in particular as regards adoptions, would constitute a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights. In my opinion, the question to be asked is whether the father or biological mother of a child dies within a homosexual couple, should the child remain a child of no one or should it be better for him to have a parent, even if not a biological one? The answer can only go in the second direction. Moreover, many Italian courts (see also the judgment of the court of minors in Rome of 30 July 2014) have already recognized the extension of parental responsibility on the partner's son. Those who oppose this law have proposed an argument of certain effect: approving it would surreptitiously facilitate the use of the uterus for rent, which in Italy is prohibited by the penal code, as well as by the laws of the vast majority of European states. On this point we must be very clear: no human being can be treated as a means but always as an end. As a result, no woman's body can be reduced to incubator on behalf of third parties. But the no to the legalization of surrogacy must not automatically imply the rejection of the proposed Cirinna law. It is an instrumental forcing of those who do not want any law on civil unions. In our legal system, in fact, there is no assumption that a possible legalization of surrogacy might occur. But above all stepchild adoption is limited to taking note of an already existing situation - the presence of a creature coming into the world through artificial fertilization or the uterus for rent - and regulating it, taking into account the primary interest of the child, to whom two parents are given, instead of one, thus guaranteeing him a condition of greater safety. In any case, even in the most extreme cases, the rights of the child must be given absolute priority and must therefore be protected and promoted without any limitation. I remember, fellow senators, that once children born out of marriage were called "bastards"; I hope no one thinks of a legal discrimination that creates the bastards of the new millennium just because they were born of an illegal practice. To conclude: in this changing society the legislator must promote everything that helps and strengthens responsibility. The principle underlying the law that will come out of Parliament is that greater freedom must also be given a greater degree of responsibility and that, therefore, the recognition of the rights of couples also follows the duties and, in the event of dissolution, the guarantees of protection of the weaker partner. It must be a law able to solve practical issues arising from de facto situations, without affecting the stable principles of life that are part of our traditional culture, and that is based on the equality of individual rights: it is not an easy undertaking, but not even impossible. [[Applause from the Senators Repetti and Puppato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u41	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u42	Madam President, the start in this House of the general discussion of one of the most controversial measures in recent parliamentary history represents an extraordinary event for two orders of factors: firstly, because we are faced with a dangerous parliamentary precedent of violation of Article 72 of the Constitution and therefore of total bypass of the authority of the parliamentary committees and of the confrontation of which these are inescapable guarantee; secondly, because it is being tried, with a legislative artifice, not even so ingenious, to break up the natural society, normatively and constitutionally sanctioned, putting before it a sort of pseudo-progressive society drawn at the table by the legislator, silent all this even for the protection of human rights, opening a gap in the already labile fabric of legal legitimacy and in almost scientific infusing in the anthropological harmony and natural requirements to which the legislator itself should inevitably bend. These are the two pillars around which the measure presented by Mrs Cirinna is structured, from which a range of anomalies, contradictions and legislative doubts are spread in cascade before which we must demand from this House operational lucidity net of ideological contaminations prone to either side. One of the problems, before which it would be appropriate for the legislator not only to pass a hand on the conscience but to go to dust off the codes, is the interpretation à la carte of the right of the minor to have a family, which in my opinion represents the lowest point touched by this bill. A concept crushed under the weight of clearly adult-centric political reason, which has the ambition to identify pseudo-parential drives for rights, in the total silence of international laws and conventions. But let's go step by step. I think it is a priority, before starting any reflection on the merits of a delicate and complex measure, to focus on the level of fierceness and of desired over-chism with which it was intended to give priority to the debate on the subject. The mantric repetition of fundamentalist supporters of the bill under consideration has triggered a tourbillon of false information that has come to a schematic synthesis according to which the provision is not that - I repeat, paraphrasing the various statements that follow - an act of civilization, an instrument of respect for the minors of the rainbow families, a necessary act towards those many children born from previous heterosexual relationships of subjects then become parties to a civil union, and that nothing has to do with the uterus for rent. This mantric scheme, wisely spread on social networks and pontificated in the early evening by comedians, journalists, presenters, etc., is a weapon that on the one hand allows to convey hundreds of doses, filtered and expertly presented of the text under discussion to civil society, which certainly has much more to do than read 23 articles of a bill; on the other hand, it creates a choreographic climate of hatred, arrogance and demonization of all those who, pointed to as hypocrites and medieval, dare to have a bit different views. In other contexts, it would be called legitimate and constitutional democratic confrontation. When it comes to civil unions, the watchword is 'homophobia'; this is the second mantra that takes place in the debates on the subject and that - I am sure - will also cheer up our debate on several occasions. In general information, the proposers themselves keep well away from explaining what the law actually provides and do not explain that, despite a clear pronunciation of the Constitutional Court, which prohibits the homologation between civil unions and marriages, we continue, with a gross attempt at regulatory maquillage, to paradoxically place on the case civil union all the provisions of the civil code governing marriage. In fact, the regime for spouses and the family extends to forms of coexistence between persons of the same sex; an extension without legitimacy for those who are linked by forms of cohabitation which, not being based on sexual dimorphism, differ in substance from the family and do not share that social function, constitutionally and anthropologically sanctioned, which justifies its special regime provided for by the order. This measure attempts, even in a gross way, to replace the natural society based on the family with the society imposed by the legislator (an à la carte society, in short), assimilating the demands of the cohabitants, albeit legitimate, with the needs of the family referred to in the special regime of the order. Marriage is a public promise, given the constituent role of this in society, and cannot be assimilated to the coexistence between subjects who do not hold the constituent potentials referred to in marriage. But it seems easier to forget this particular. As I said, even if the direct reference to the institution of marriage has been removed, in some passages the substance of the references to the civil code and the words used themselves (e.g. paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 3) follow exactly the discipline on marriage. This is in open contrast to Articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution, which established a family favor, because they recognized in the family based on marriage between a man and a woman something that distinguishes it in an unavoidable way from all other social formations. I would like to remind you once again that this principle has been reaffirmed precisely by the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 138 of 2010, which clearly recalled - I quote from the judgment - the constitutional importance attributed to the family and the potential procreative purpose of marriage that is worth distinguishing it from homosexual union. It has expressly reported that, with reference to Article 3 of the Constitution, the censored legislation of the Civil Code, which, in so far as it refers exclusively to marriage between man and woman, cannot be considered illegitimate on the constitutional level. This is because it is based on Article 29 of the Constitution, and because the legislation itself does not give rise to unreasonable discrimination, since homosexual unions cannot be regarded as homogeneous to marriage. The very reason for this difference, according to the Court, lies precisely in both the potential procreative purpose of marriage, which is based on sexual dimorphism; hence the social function recognized (and not assigned) to the family under Article 29. Of course, it will be objected that in that judgment the conclusions were a spur to the legislator to take action anyway in order to strengthen the protections for couples of the same sex; but guaranteeing or strengthening the protection does not necessarily imply copying the discipline of marriage, which instead has been done in this text. We are dealing with two different configurations, which also have a different constitutional source of reference (Article 29 and Article 2 of the Constitution); type approval is therefore without reasonable justification. Many times, in the words of the rapporteur and the supporters of this bill, we have heard that we do not want to make such a marriage. Unfortunately, there is some doubt at this point. In the words and interviews of other referents - present and past - of the PD it has been expressly heard that this bill is the first step, nominally different, to define marriage for same-sex couples. It's purely a matter of names. Family law is not a protection of heterosexual love. We never talk about affection, love or the sentimental sphere in the codex. The family favor is not born to protect stable affective relationships, but because it is recognized that the commitment between a man and a woman, from which new citizens can be born, is good for the State. Commitment, not love. It is the commitment that one wants to promote for this intrinsic purpose that gives continuation to society, not love, which is instead something in which the State does not enter and cannot enter, which concerns the personal sphere of individuals and the individual freedoms that must be respected and protected, but for individuals as such. Then why this law? The urgency of legitimizing protection for homosexuals is shared in their affective relationship. It attaches everything to individual freedoms. Discipline makes water: very good (in fact very bad), we repair the holes, we fix the order. There is no need for a special law setting up a new institution (which in fact this law does) similar to marriage; it is necessary to guarantee health care, property matters and succession. We do so where there are gaps, which presupposes taking control of the order and seeing what these gaps really are. With this in-depth analysis we would clearly see that our legal system already protects in many respects the people who are permanently living together. We need only a few adjustments. Then what is the problem? Is the law not known and not enforced? Well, let us formulate a single text on stable coexistence, recalling everything that is already in force and inserting what is missing and then sending circulars to all administrations to enforce the law in force. The problem is certainly less important than we want to make people believe and probably, what has been discussed and debated for a few months now, is far beyond the urgency - I repeat legitimate - of having protection. It is part of the - less legitimate - path of a right, claimed and shouted, of a regulatory type-approval in the absence of appropriate binding principles. But, actually, what do you want to do with this bill? We continue to confuse ideas by flagging a fanciful right to parenthood, absolutely absent on the constitutional and international regulatory side. They mix, perhaps deliberately, different levels of ex-lege adoptions, not making clear exactly what stepchild adoption means, dealing it as a good and just thing to cope with extraordinary situations created in fact following alleged vicissitudes of life, such as previous heterosexual relationships or biological children had without buying or surrogating of an individual. But intellectual honesty claims that at least the legislator does not take for granted the obvious and objective, bypassing it and trying to discipline, against, those scientific artifices that have allowed to turn the obvious into not obvious. The objective, in the case of this species, must be sought in the awareness, common creed, shared and transversal, that biological homogenitality does not exist and cannot exist. Therefore, to regulate a sanatoria of surrogate homogenitality, in addition to being ethically abominable, would identify itself as a harmful rule of citizens' rights. This is because by introducing the possibility, by law, of a homogenitality, although mitigated being of non-legitimate adoption, it facilitates that category of potential homoparents who have the means and resources to surrogate their sonship, creating a divariation in terms of rights between those who are able to spend from 50 to 150,000 euros for a surrogate motherhood in the USA or India and those who do not hold these means instead. At the point of law, would it then be so scientific to appeal the rule by aspiring homoparents who, by reason of the principle of non-discrimination, claim adequate economic support from that same State which has established a right which they cannot enjoy? It's not a paradox, it's what's basically going to happen in the medium term. Moreover, the legislator cannot fail to legislate on the modus with which the obvious turns into not obvious. Therefore the sanatorium of the uterus for rent (because Article 5 and Article 3 (4) are basically this) cannot exist in the absence of at least a reference to the same uterus for rent. Unless we want to admit a pilatesque management of an uncomfortable argument, according to which it is better to buffer the problem, maybe feed it out of proportion, but woe to name it. I therefore ask the supporters where modernity and civilization are found in this discipline that makes even the most unwary jurist shudder. But there is another reason why Article 5 specifically turns out to be paradoxically disrespectful of same homosexual couples. To explain this scenario, just quote the statement of the Association of Parents and Friends of Homosexual Persons (AGAPO), according to which - I quote: "Through whatever path one arrives at the adoption of the partner's child (...) these are however procedures in which, deliberately, one of the two biological parents disappears from the child's life and symbolically kills the parent of the opposite sex"; then continues: "Most homosexual people do not want to be exploited for these purposes. They know that they were born to a mother and father and are happy about it. Finally, the invitation to the promoters of the stepchild before talking about the hemophobia of others, to begin to look at the reality of the homosexual condition and accept it. This is the starting point from which the true respect of the homosexual person begins. I don't think we need to add anything else. Therefore, the legislator in the heat of exorcising a potential accusation of homophobia, abused and exploited term, introduces a right and tramples on another thousand. A virtuous example of enlightened legislation, there is nothing to say. It is repeated that these children born in rainbow families must be given a future. Perfect, but no one dares to say how many these children are. According to the latest census, the same-sex couples are 7.513, of which 529 have children throughout the country. Even if it were to be accepted that over the last four years there had been an increase of 20 to 30% of these new social groups, we are talking about not even 700 units. Even admitting that each of these nuclei had two children, we speak of 1,400 minors. Something far from being a social emergency. I believe that everyone can agree on this point. How much, however, as a protection for the child not to be abandoned in an orphanage - which, it is worth pointing out to friends pro stepchild, have not existed since 2006 - in the event of the death of the abandoned parent, as long as it is true? Let's get this straight. How many of these children are children, the result of previous relationships? So children not from procreative engineering? It is not known, but it is plausible that it is a minority. So let's talk about minors who have two biological parents. If the unfortunate condition that one of the two parents should fail is to be verified, the other parent remains, and I believe that there is no concern about this, at least common sense should not be raised. If, unfortunately, both parents fail, then Article 44 (1) (a) of Law 184 of 1983 intervenes. So the law exists, just apply it and not necessarily modify it. It's not inevitable. Therefore, we are well aware that Article 5 has only been introduced for surrogate children. But why not say it and continue to make senseless panegyrics by dragging this particular fact that nothing has to do with this new norm? Why make citizens believe they have a fair and revolutionary rule? Please, let's call it by name: it's a sanatorium to legitimize surrogacy children. That's it. This is where the legislative paradox I was talking about is triggered, but here too, a legislative change does not seem to be the only way forward. It is worth pointing out that cases of protection of so-called stepchildren within couples have always been dealt with, including the case in the paragraphs of Article 44. Mr President, since my time is running out, I ask that the text of my speech be handed over now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). How does this House want to deal with these issues? With freedom of conscience or with ad hoc doubts? I have always been a supporter - and my statements confirm this - of a port to a mediated and shared news story. Of course, as I said, the individual rights of same-sex couples must be protected and regulated. I am also available to listen to proposals that, although courageous and questionable, are nevertheless operated in the perspective of a mediated reasoning, free from the regulatory arrogance that seems - in contrast - to have conditioned the production of the last text of the bill Cirinna. I have appreciated the courage of my PD colleagues who, despite everything, and while maintaining their will to vote in favour of the draft law, have loudly reaffirmed their opposition to certain provisions contained in it. This, in my opinion, remains a guarantee of the democratic liveliness of confrontation. That is why I hope that this democratic filter will not be bypassed by the Republic from the outset, recreating majorities à la carte with the sole aim of introducing this legislation. It would be a serious and damaging insult to the dignity of those who are working for dialogue and for overcoming the most serious traits of this measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). If these unpleasant conditions are to be recreated, I will be the first to vote against this bill, beyond the content of the bill on which I have reiterated and motivated my positions. In conclusion, I want to recall a disarming aspect in its simplicity: parenting is not a right that is claimed by beating fists or tearing cheques, but a gift of love that must rotate around the only preeminent right, that of the child, who must be able to count on the stability of relationships and on the sacred and inescapable complementarity of mother and father. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senators Giovanardi and Amidei]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u43	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u44	Madam President, if society is a network of relationships and cohabitations that require to be regulated, in their different expressions, also overcoming ideological barricades and embankments of reassuring traditions, then the bill we are preparing to vote allows us to add a piece to that puzzle, and there is no doubt that in no other field of civil law, as in that of family law, the conflicting dynamics of the underlying social reality are felt strong. In this context, with the draft law under discussion, it is proposed to give legal recognition to civil unions between persons of the same sex, to living together in fact, as well as to cohabitation contracts, or it is proposed to regulate realities that already act as elements of human relationship to which we have not yet been able to guarantee adequate legal coverage in terms of mutual rights and duties. The debate on the introduction of a discipline on civil unions and de facto couples must undoubtedly be included in the wider debate on the evolution of family aggregations, the role of the traditional family, its composition and its function, which certainly remains central to the overall network of social relationships. Evolution, therefore, from the conception of the legitimate family based on marriage, almost authoritarian and hierarchical in the relationship between man and woman, codified in 1942, to the Republican Constitution that gave us a positive family concept: family as a natural society based on moral and legal equality between spouses sanctioned by Article 29, up to mononuclear and increasingly complex forms that accompanied the reform of family law in the late 1970s. Hence the path towards the recognition of the stable union between two subjects linked by the bond of affection and solidarity, including homosexuals. Transformations and new horizons that require us to rethink the categories with which we have read the evolution even more recent of affective relationships; because the family, unions are not just a private fact, but have a fundamental public relevance, as sources of rights and duties. An existential microcosm, which we have tried to place between the family under Article 29, and new social formation, worthy of receiving specific discipline and protection, but beyond and above the simple recognition of individual rights, beyond, therefore, that social formation under Article 2 of the Constitution; an important step that Parliament is preparing to take in order to fill a vacuum that weighs. In fact, legal and institutional invisibility does not mean in fact non-existence, but precariousness of protection, whether it is adults or children. Non-standardization is not only ignorant, as someone has already written, but it is useless compared to existing and unjust sociological and anthropological phenomena because they are discriminatory. On the contrary, legal recognition produces security and stability; stability produces confidence, well-being and social cohesion, between new rights and new duties. In the European Union itself, the framework on cohabitation discipline is quite varied: from registered cohabitation of the partnership to equal marriage for same-sex couples as in the Netherlands, Belgium and Spain. The European Union has taken a clear position on this issue since 1994 and then, in its 2003 resolution, calling on the Member States to recognise de facto couples, as well as to regulate the rights of homosexuals, including in the area of adoption, until the European Court of Strasbourg's explicit condemnation and subsequent sanction last July of Italy's violation of Article 8 of the European Convention for the Non-Recognition of Homosexual Couples. That of the Italian Parliament was an articulated path, from the first draft law presented in 1986 to the PACS on the French model in the 15th legislature. While at local level attempts were made to give recognition, if not legal, at least social, to homosexual unions, the Berlusconi Government challenged all the statutes of the Regions in favour of civil unions. We followed the proposals of DICO and CUS (contracts of solidarity union) in 2007 and today, after months of work and constructive discussion, frank and harsh in the Commission Justice, we arrive at the text coordinated by my colleague Cirinna, who finally tries to give political responses and equal dignity to homosexual unions, starting precisely from the common registration in the archive of the civil state. The ISTAT statistical census of 2011 has certified that a million fellow citizens declare themselves homosexual, but - above all - that over 74 percent of the Italian population interviewed not only does not consider homosexuality a moral or social threat to the traditional family, but that there is still a strong discrimination against which to fight in places of study and training, in the search for work and in social relations. In addition, almost forty years of studies on homosexual parents and homogenital families testify that the affective sexual orientation of mothers and fathers does not detect for the purposes of the emotional psychophysical development of children and that their growth is comparable to that of those born in straight couples as to cognitive and relational abilities and sexual identity. The exclusion of such couples from the assumption of adoption under Article 44 (b) of the partner's son, in conjunction with the legislation on civil unions or separately, would risk being censored by supranational courts, as it is unlawful for unequal treatment based on sexual orientation. The institution of stepchild adoption, i.e. the adoption of the partner's son, dates back to thirty years ago and the discussion therefore moves not on the validity of the legal institution, but on the discrimination of the heterosexual or homosexual couple in order to extend parenthood. [[Applause from Senators Albano and Broglia]] We are talking about children and children who exist and ask for a right to stability of affection and care, even if the couple must decide not to share coexistence and union anymore. What should be guaranteed is the continuity of relationship, affection, solidarity and care. It was for juvenile judges - impartial judges - to adapt family law to change, from Catania to Rome, from Bologna to Turin, thus shifting the border between ethics and law. Today, therefore, what happened already in the seventies occurs: the judiciary as an anticipation of the formation of laws for social phenomena that break traditional patterns (from the entrust to adoptions, to surnames to be attributed to children). In fact, if having children is not a right, it is, however, the protection of unborn children. We are therefore faced with new rights to write, deserving of a discipline for which the legislator - therefore we - cannot be called aside. We have not underestimated the risks and implications that will arise, but we cannot confuse the right to dispose of oneself, of one's own body, of one's own feelings, with behaviour that is outlawed and that must continue to be pursued by law, as already provided for in Article 12 of Law No 40 of 2004 for surrogacy. In fact, fighting for equal consideration does not mean disowning diversity, it does not mean restricting the sphere of other rights, but having the strength to go beyond the tolerance of what is else by itself to incorporate it fully into a legal system of guarantees, in a system where one recognizes the primacy of relationships, of those human and emotional relationships that constitute the fabric of living together, because the right of a woman and a man to unite in marriage cannot constitute a limit a ban on a right of others of the same sex to unite in a recognized affective bond and because it has always been the difference that drives the civic and legal evolution towards the widening of the sphere of protection of rights. It is a conquest for all and not only for those who then exercise those rights in practice. With the adoption of the text under discussion we legislators will finally give protection to a core of rights and duties of assistance and solidarity, also economic, to situations of couples who still live today with a sense of precariousness and almost clandestineness their relationship. If this battle, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, goes in the direction of many other battles for the extension of the protection of individual and social rights, between new family engineers and new complexities, then we will have added a piece to progress, a conquest for a country that does not turn back, but takes full responsibility, towards current challenges, for each of us, in the different roles, citizens and legislators. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u45	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to make it clear that there are no possible misunderstandings: I am deeply convinced that it is time for civil unions to be regulated in Italy. It is a shame for our country to recall and oblige us to legislate in this sense and it is a shame that Italy is the only one of the great countries of Europe in which there are A- and B-series citizens. Over the years it has been tried to legislate in this area and this was the right time, the last possible time to make a right law, that would contain different needs in a harmonious and respectful text. However, as usual, even in this measure, with the usual hasty arrogance, the Government, which prefers to tweet "made" rather than risk making a measure expected and shared after an open debate, does not even consider the public opinion brought to the recognition of the rights of couples in fact, but not yet ready (and above all not in such a clumsy way) to the adoption of children by homosexual couples or to the practice of the uterus for rent. In this regard, I would like to point out that in Italy the practice of renting uterus is prohibited by Law No 40 of 2004, but it is legally granted in some countries of the world. Just in these days one of the most well-known French feminists, wife of former Prime Minister Jospin, a left-wing woman, as she likes to call herself, is organizing a huge demonstration in Paris to ban the practice of the uterus for rent in the world. Women are exploited and we know that, but it is the State that must protect them from such exploitation by preventing this practice throughout the world. As I said, it was the right time to approve a joint measure, but unfortunately this opportunity has been lost because the draft law under consideration is wrong, badly written, unbalanced; all this beyond its clear unconstitutionality, as today and in recent days has been repeatedly recalled in this House where reference has been made to Article 72 of the Constitution, because this last text has not been discussed in the Commission. There is a fundamental question, which affects every possible good intention of the presenter: the will, frankly incomprehensible, of almost total equivalence of homosexual unions with the marriage institution. This will was explicit in the initial text, which contained continuous references to marriage, and which has certainly not been modified by the simple deletion of some of these references in the new text before the House today. Names may change, but the substance remains the same. The main rights and obligations that are foreseen have the same strength and the same modality as the rights and matrimonial duties: this is for the acquisition of citizenship of the foreign spouse and for the reversibility of pensions. I would remind you that the numbers and social costs which the measure may entail are not yet clear in these terms. I would also like to remind you that there are millions of Italians living with a social pension of less than EUR 400 per month and I do not think there are any government measures aimed at increasing it quickly, for the survival of these elderly people, who have worked their whole lives. This complete overlap has been chosen between the two institutions, that of marriage and that of civil unions, despite the fact that the European Union has made it clear on more than one occasion that no article of the Convention imposes on Member States the obligation to open the marriage of homosexual couples. There is, however, something even more serious. The judgment No 138 of 2010 of the Constitutional Court states, beyond any possible interpretation, that the marriage institution is of exclusive relevance to couples formed by a man and a woman. Allow me to quote it: " (...) it is inevitable to conclude that they, that is, the Constituents, bear in mind the notion of marriage defined by the Civil Code (...) which states that spouses must be persons of different sex". It is said in this judgment that this constitutional precept cannot be overcome because it would not be a mere re-reading but rather a creative, very creative interpretation. Finally, it is stated: "It must be reiterated, therefore, that the norm does not take into account homosexual unions, but rather intended to refer to marriage in the traditional meaning of that institute." In other words, therefore, it is clear that the very establishment of this draft law, which essentially equates homosexual unions with marriage, is unconstitutional. Then there is another question, on which there has been much debate these days: that of the adoption of the stepson, the stepchild adoption. It is precisely because the debate has been going on for weeks now, as this is a sensitive and highly unknown subject, that I shall confine myself to a couple of considerations. The first is that there is no absolute right to parenthood, even if we know that this is the world of rights and never and never remembers instead that, to every right corresponds a duty, otherwise one has a violence of law itself. In other words, there is no right to become a father or a mother at any cost, but on the contrary, children's rights exist and must be respected. It is not conceivable that, in order to satisfy the desire to be a father or a mother, children's rights should be put in the background. The second consideration is that, of course, this topic is opening up comparisons, even harsh, not only between parties and within the parties themselves, but also within civil society. The strong suspicion is that it has been dealt with superficially, in haste, without any deepening. And so I wonder, Madam rapporteur, why not at least remove the adoptions part to follow it and deepen it into a specific draft law, which this country deeply needs? Is it really essential to address this issue here and now, reducing it to an ideological confrontation? I want to conclude with another aspect that is very perplexing. We hear very little about it, but Senator Cirinna's bill does not only talk about homosexual unions, because there is also a second part, dedicated to heterosexual cohabitations, and it is a discipline - let me say this - absolutely uncomfortable: the level of rights granted to heterosexual couples living together is low. We are for civil rights for de facto, homo or heterosexual couples because all individuals are equal. Why this choice? Why this absurd imbalance between rights equivalent to marriage for homosexual couples and close to zero for heterosexual couples? This choice brings with it two possible consequences. It is a question of whether the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights will arrive first. Because if the Constitutional Court arrives first, it can only detect deep discrimination; if the European Court of Human Rights comes first, the consequence will be even more harmful. I should like to end by expressing my regret at yet another missed opportunity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u47	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure on civil unions in the right direction of arrival is an act due to which we have been recalled by the Court of Strasbourg, and it is very late in a profoundly changing social reality. It would not be permissible to postpone or sink a long-awaited measure that the country needs in order to take a step of civilization. However, we must provide for measures to accompany the process of change, and for reflection between young and old to foster this important evolutionary phase of the country's democracy. The necessary accompanying measures have led me to present some agendas on training. The real country comes before the legal country; the customs and habits anticipate the rules, but the excessive media puffing and the loading of the tones within the debate on stepchild adoption did not, however, benefit the development of a discussion that had to be more serene and above all more objective. Instead of raising walls, the level of dialogue had to be raised, legitimizing the doubt about some critical issues. I did not share the screaming squares for the pros and cons: I would have preferred a square of dialogue. I must acknowledge that within the Democratic Party Group the debate has been calm and characterized by an open and democratic spirit, as it is in our style. On the outside he excavated with some too much media bubble on critical thinking, with some demagogic label stuck by some media to positions of the so-called minority, branded as a cattodem, as if it were a war of religion. The observations came from the Catholic world, from the secular world, from the feminist world, from many worlds, from those who have asked legitimate questions, and not on civil unions (uncounted), but on the stepchild adoption, based on the delicate theme of the construction of adolescent identity, on that of surrogate motherhood or gestation for others, asking themselves the legitimate question about the commitment of the woman to give up the newborn and to hand it over to the client without claiming its motherhood. Wait until they were listened to with respect and improperly labeled. In our country, the use of surrogacy - as has been mentioned by several colleagues before me - is forbidden and its practice is severely punished. The condemnation of surrogacy is a fundamental rule in our legal system to guarantee, in particular, human dignity and, therefore, why call it back in the debate if prohibited by law? At the point where Surrogacy has to do with stepchild adoption, I say that it can have something to do with it as it can be done abroad. If prohibited in France, Germany and Italy, it is admitted in different ways in the United Kingdom, Greece, Ukraine, Russia, India, in some US States, Belgium, Ireland, the Netherlands and Canada. Thanks to the amendment we have tabled, we have only tried to tighten up controls; to give more attention and discourage Italian citizens, even if they could think of carrying out a child's project abroad. We cannot afford to ignore the fact that third-party maternity violates the rights of others and there are strong disincentives and control measures in the text of the amendments. One cannot evade the foundations of psychology; to remove scientific knowledge, to bypass the delicacy of the paths of deep gestation, of a natural mother. Nor can it be ignored that the so-called cross-talking (cross-talking) occurs in the maternal-fetal relationship. It cannot be ignored that at birth the child, though donated, carries within himself an emotional and sensory heritage, learned by the mother, which is affected by her emotions, her state of mind, and her well-being. Why is it not permissible for politics to question this too? The law must protect everyone, first and foremost the denied rights of those who do not speak, of women and children. Well, even the new theory of gift and altruistic supposition is a theorem and, in reality, a sophism, a captious reasoning, behind which they hide most of the time, not always, the reality of marginalized women. This happens in depressed countries, but also in opulence countries. Is it right, then, to collect these great themes? Yeah, it's just the plural thought, not the singular one. There is a principle of caution and attention to the centrality of the child and the teenager, to the construction of the identity process, to greater protection of women at the basis of our proposals. That is why we propose the concept of reinforced foster care. That is why the amendments are measures of guarantee, of caution and of attention to rights that need to be balanced well. I fully support Sylviane Agacinski, a French philosopher who immediately joined the Paris Charter. She became a promoter with other associations of the Paris Councils, with the support of the vice president of the French National Assembly, Laurence Dumont. Just today, it happens, this assize denounces the use of human beings, whose intrinsic value is erased in favor of the value of use and the value of exchange. So, we don't want to rent this uterus, and I hope no one wants it transversally. Well, then, to the signing of the Charter for the universal abolition of surrogacy. Even if it can be improved, I express absolute support for the text on civil unions, a step of civilization that can not wait anyway. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u49	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u50	Madam President, I will vote in favour of the text of the law that has been proposed to us and on which there has been a great deal of work by Senator Monica Cirinna and many others, whom I thank. I signed it, too. During the debate that took place in the Justice Commission, in which I had the opportunity - great, for me - to take part in replacing some of my colleagues, I listened to and followed a difficult debate, which then continued. I too have had my doubts and difficulties, but I have overcome them because this text is the right balance for this Parliament. Let us try, therefore, in the debate and then in the vote, to make sure that the country perceives that these places are permeated by needs. Desmond Tutu, South African archbishop, says homophobia is a form of apartheid. How is it possible to combat racism and not homophobia? Exactly: how is it possible to do one thing without doing the other? And how do we really fight homophobia, inequality, discrimination, if we don't worry about raising the threshold of rights? And to do it with joy, with enthusiasm, not as if we were voting for the entry into war of a country. How can we affirm these rights if we do not consider the extraordinary changes in social relations, changes in the dynamics of relationships, also in the relationship between men and women, men and women, and in the relationship between adults and children? Everything has changed, a lot has changed and we cannot stand still in obsolete patterns. We have been redempted by the European Union; we are constantly being overcome by judgments and the choices of many magistrates. Some colleagues have said that this is a divisive subject. Ever since I've been here in this legislature, I've rarely seen a non-divisive theme. We have divided ourselves on everything or almost everything; perhaps we could divide on this as little as possible, because the text we are debating is already very balanced, very mediated. These places, these halls, these spaces, in 1970, when there was Christian Democracy and the Communist Party, they chose to approve the divorce law. Again here, again here, among these benches, a few years later, in 1978 parliamentarians like us chose - even in 1978 - to approve the law for voluntary termination of pregnancy. There were Christian Democracy, the Communist Party and other parties. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. Mr Pezzopane (PD). I'll finish. Then there were the referendums, in 1974 and 1981, which confirmed that those parliamentarians had done a good job. Now, I, who also had doubts about certain issues, particularly the issue of the womb for rent, believe that this bill - and I also invoke the attention of those Members of Parliament who, like me, have had those doubts - is properly balanced and allows us to take a step forward on rights without disrupting anyone's life, to put the rights of those children and those young people at the centre, and to standardise ours with the neighbouring countries of Europe. The Democratic Party has a great responsibility and I am sure, with serenity and enthusiasm, that we will be able to play it through, giving our country a just law for civil unions. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u52	Madam President, I would like to start with what Senator Pezzopane has just heard. With this mantra that Europe asks us to do so - we have understood it on many other aspects and I do not understand how it can not be grasped in this circumstance - firstly we do not give any added value to the debate, because, if we need lessons from others, especially from Europe, ahinoi! Secondly, if we are talking about rights and, in this case, about aspects that are very intertwined with our custom and our way of life, we are mature enough to be able to say if we want one thing, because it serves us, avoiding saying that we have to do it because others tell us, because Europe tells us so. We have seen, when it comes to banks, what it means to justify ourselves by saying that Europe tells us; and we have seen, when we touched on the Constitution with the excuse that Europe tells us, what failures have been introduced. There are issues of unconstitutionality and, since we were talking about it, Madam President, it will certainly not be the start-of-session vote that removes that unconstitutionality that is inherent in the bill. It was a vote that, in its legitimacy, the Senate faced considering that the reasons put forward by those who raised issues of unconstitutionality were not founded. By rejecting them, the debate began and amendments will be examined. I immediately note that the Lega Nord Group has not withdrawn a single amendment. There are curious news agencies that talk about "trains" with the amendments that went back and forth from the offices and were withdrawn. No, Madam President, we have not withdrawn any amendments, and we are waiting to see what the majority will want to see about the substance of the amendment, about that small group of amendments which are the main features of our proposal to amend the law. We do not care, as we were not interested in the constitutional change, to make obstructionism end in itself, showing that we are able to produce thousands of amendments to slow down a parliamentary process that in any case will come to its conclusion, because the majority, in its constitutional legitimacy, has the numbers to be able to vote. On the other hand, we are interested in talking about content. We know that there are techniques that have now been abused; it is called kangaroo and perhaps soon it will be called alligator or it will have some other very curious nickname. In short, there are techniques for killing all the amendments in very few votes. In view of this, we say that we want to dialogue, we want to know, we want to understand, we want the people themselves, all the people who were in the square on Sunday and before Sunday, to have real knowledge of the cause of what we are debating. So no kangaroos. If there is this demonstration of openness on the part of the majority, there will be no obstruction by us with thousands of amendments, but there will certainly be a few hundred healthy proposals, which go to straighten out a law that we believe could easily be adopted, but which unfortunately, because of the usual a little muscular and unscrupulous will of the Premier, has been put into practice in the ways we know. I have no doubt, Mr Arrigoni, that this has been done to divert the attention of citizens from the dramatic economic situation in the country. Madam President, if ten years ago we were struggling to talk, in these same classrooms, about something called DICO or about other ways in which we intended to regulate couples in fact, today the same statistical checks and surveys in the country tell us that on these issues the debate has gone further and there can be wide-ranging sharing. Who does not agree to give a legal and legal framework to the coexistence of persons of the one and the other sex? It is a question of enacting certain legal rules, of framing certain situations, which is quite different from our own point of view, from the family that has allowed each of us to come to the world. In fact, like it or not (and I find it hard to imagine how to regret it), each of us came to the world because a man and a woman have procreated. Outside of this rule there may be exceptions, which can be recognized - it is necessary that the law recognizes rights - but it is different from pushing to insert, to graft themes such as parenting in a couple that is not made by people of different sex, is quite another thing. I add a paradox, Mr President: the very proposers of the legislation to our examination, those who deal very lightly with these issues, then take hours and hours of debate to explain to us that GMOs are to be fought and kept away like plague because they are an alteration to a natural and biological path that must be respected. Yes: if you talk about carrots, lettuce, vegetables, GMOs should not be considered; if you talk about children you can also consider the chemist who in the laboratory builds what nature does not make possible. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] These are paradoxes, they are real paradoxes and come from the same subjects who lecture on rights on this law. [[Senator Puglisi's comments.]] Senator, I respect your opinion. You also learn to respect that of others: it is part of the democratic debate. And then I say, let's get to the bottom of it. Why are you obstinating to include in this bill the relationship between the de facto couple and the children that this couple could not naturally have? And let's not talk about the adoption of a partner's son from a natural couple. Let's talk about other aspects. I will be told that the law prevents assisted fertilization and the uterus for rent. I remember a very, very simple but effective statement: evil always has a trivial seed. We always start from a banality, even in the consumption of drugs (but what do you want it to be? Let's try it, maybe even in alcohol abuse (but what do you want it to be? Let's try it, or in gambling (what do you want it to be? A diversion, once in a while), after which one remains prisoners of a gorgo and does not come out anymore. Open a door that will make it possible, step by step, to get to the uterus for rent or to other unnatural ways of conception I think is as far away as the need to give couples de facto a legal capacity, but I believe it is also as far away as any living being that has a consciousness of its own being can conceive. And then we talk about merit and, as I said, we want to do it by removing from this bill any reference to the natural family that must be different from the legal recognition of couples in fact; and we want to do it by removing from this law any reference to the possibility that couples with a child could exist that was not born from either of the two parents and was not adopted but was "built", let's put it this way, at the table. There is a fact, Mr President, that will certainly characterize the votes, and I say this to my colleagues in the New Right Centre: you are being researched with requests for secret voting. You should at least have the shame to remember that when the Constitution was changed here you were among those who were ashamed, or rather stigmatized those who asked for the secret vote because, as you said, they did not have the courage to express their opinion and in that case it was the Constitutional Charter. You are now looking for our signatures, too, so that you can have a secret vote that will allow you to put a veil on the shame that surrounds you for haggling first posts as Minister and Undersecretary, and all that is a corollary, guaranteeing you a political income and now saying that you will not support this text. Shame on you! At least, my colleague Arrigoni, Judas got paid after betraying. These have cashed in even before the betrayal and they also want to pass for the hard and pure ones, which will hold up to the last. Shame on you, for you don't even have a sense of modesty! [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]] You've sold out for a few ministers, and now you're coming or you're coming in here to say you're gonna defend the family and our tradition. DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). This is political nonsense, Candiani! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Biagio, please don't comment. Senator Candiani, you respect this House. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I respect the House. In fact, as I am saying, I have no problem and, where there is a clear vote, I will raise my hand and vote clearly, supporting what I believe. But in the same way I believe that colleagues who at the time censored requests for secret voting for the reform of the Constitution should at least refrain today from making the same demands. Especially since at the time there was a serene, clear, clear battle on net principles. Here, on the other hand, there has been a hacking that is now hidden and put with modesty under the table, just as if it were that shame that it actually is. Madam President, they tell us that we are behind, that we have not adapted to the progress of the times. I don't know what progress is. Darwin is certainly right: in any case, we move on. Even when we feel like we're jumping back, we move on. Of course, nature doesn't jump. Of course, if we go away without realizing that basic characteristic that makes us human, going to create artifices, we do not do a good thing and sooner or later we will pay the price. I don't want to make references to the Bible and I don't want to go back to verses, but I say that we have a duty to give citizens the right laws. We have a duty to protect citizens against unjust laws. There is in our Constitution the recognition of a family. Even before the Constitution, there is a natural right. We cannot deviate from that natural right. Any choice that goes against that natural right will be paid sooner or later. And who will pay the price will be the future generations. We are building a country that cannot give up its solid roots and foundations, giving rights to those who have decided to live together, but not forgetting that, if we are living and existing people today, we owe it to the fact that we had a family behind us. And the natural family cannot in any way be mistaken for the cohabitation of de facto couples. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u53	Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u54	Madam President, these days we have heard many times in this House, even a few minutes ago in Senator Candiani's speech, as well as in some television interviews and on the press, to justify an absolute intransigence, insurmountable, in a sense favourable or contrary to individual regulatory solutions relating to the subject to our examination, with the appeal to "non-negotiable principles." This is a concept that seems to me to be used completely out of proportion. A great teacher of law, judge of the Constitutional Court and deeply believing person, Luigi Mengoni, taught that the difference between principles and rules lies in this: while the rule prescribes a specific behavior (it does not change with red; or the minimum wage is six euros), the principle instead indicates a value that must be pursued (the protection of life, freedom, equality, justice). Therefore, while the rule has a precise, predetermined prescriptive content, the principle never tells us exactly how to behave in each situation; on the contrary, it always leaves open several practical choices through which the value can be pursued, also because - right here is the crucial point of the question - it almost always happens that in the concrete case the principles to be applied are not only one but two or more of two. Let us think, for example, of the need to reconcile the principle of protection of human life with that of freedom of movement: that of road transport, which is notoriously dangerous for the safety of persons; or the principle of freedom and secrecy of communications with that of punishment for crimes. When this is the case, i.e. when it comes to reconciling two or more values with each other, a balance is required between them. The task of politics is precisely this: to apply at the same time different constitutional and moral principles, finding from time to time the best possible balance between the values that those principles require us to pursue. In other words, if the principles were rules, politics would not be useful; they would tell us fully what needs to be done in each case. But principles are not rules. There will always be those who emphasize more the importance of one and who the importance of another: the balance between the two will always lead to some degree a negotiation. The possible conciliations between the values at stake, that is, the reasonably practicable hypotheses of balancing between them are always more than one, but each of them implies that neither of the political parties attaches absolute value to one of the two principles declaring it "non-negotiable," because, in doing so, the other one will be eliminated; therefore, one does not do a good service either to the Constitution or to ethics. The public discussion - writes the science scholar of politics Maurizio Ferrera in his speech on this topic last days - must take place in a framework of secularity, tolerance, mutual respect and willingness to balance the last values. Here: I would not be among the signatories of this bill if I did not share its basic inspiration, which consists precisely in this: in a reasonable balance between the legal and ethical principles at stake on the issue we are dealing with. However, I immediately note that, as regards the recognition of civil unions between persons of the same sex, that balance is not even necessary, because I cannot even see how the recognition of the aspiration of two persons of the same sex to a stable emotional relationship can even indirectly attack the traditional family institution. A balance between principles is necessary in relation to the discipline of the possible parental relationship between the child of one of the partners and the other partner. There is no doubt that this issue should be resolved by giving priority to the interests of the child. However, there is no doubt that reality places us in the face of an infinite variety of cases, so that, even when we take the interest of the child as the main compass, we do not have any legal solution that does not have advantages in some cases and disadvantages in others. The complexity of the phenomenon, due, precisely, to the infinite variety of the quality of the adults involved, concerns - it is clear - homosexual couples as much as heterosexual couples; the harmful couples or unsuitable for the custody of minors there are both among the first and the second. Everyday reality shows us, on the other hand, a large number of cases of children raised at times in an extraordinarily positive way, sometimes with even serious affective deficiencies, by a single parent, man or woman, alone women not mothers, and also - statistically a less frequent case - by only men not fathers. I am convinced that only the experimental method would allow us to make - in this, as in many other areas - the best choice in the matter of custody or adoption of the child of one partner by the other, maximizing the advantages and minimizing the disadvantages. However, pending a reliable summary of scientific research on this point, my preference goes to the solution based on the principle of caution, therefore that on the two-year reinforced foster care or up to the age of the biological child of one of the partners; provided - of course - it is a solution related to both homosexual and heterosexual couples. The principle of caution should be applied in the same way in both cases. If none of these solutions are politically feasible, the current wording of Article 5 of the bill, which also provides for homosexual couples to adopt one partner's child by the other without a reinforced previous period of custody, seems acceptable to me as second best. With the hope that this issue will be re-examined - I repeat: for couples of both types - in the context of the organic reform of the whole matter of adoption and family care, which Parliament will have to deal with in the coming months. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u55	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u58	I would like to take this opportunity to point out that, by rule, the request to intervene at the end of the sitting must be made at least thirty minutes before the end of the sitting. I tell Senator Candiani in particular. BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, colleagues, following the press conference promoted by the committees No SNAM and No TUBO, held in the Senate on 16 December, the MPs elected in the regions concerned by the project of SNAM gas pipeline Adriatic Network and the compression plant of Sulmona (i.e. the undersigned, the Senator colleagues Pelino, Pezzopane, De Petris and the Members of the Third Party, Di Stefano, Melilla, Vacca and Verini) on 17 December 2015 sent a letter to the President of the Council Matteo Renzi, asking for the immediate establishment of an institutional technical table that changes the layout of the work on the basis of the commitment already undertaken by the previous Government with the resolution unanimously approved on 26 October 2011 by the Environment Commission of the Chamber of Deputies. To this letter, sent on 17 December last, Prime Minister Renzi never responded, demonstrating again a virtually null respect for those parliamentarians who, unlike the maneuvers of the palace that led him to be President of the Council, were elected directly by the citizens and represent their popular will. The opposition of the local populations to the construction of the SNAM methane pipeline and its Sulmona compression plant is legitimate because a large part of the current planned route, whose acts of the authorization procedure specifically divided into five parts have been put back to the Presidency of the Council, develops on an area with high seismic risk. For almost seven years, the citizens' committees dealing with the SNAM project in Abruzzo, Umbria and Emilia-Romagna have been at the forefront. Dear Renzi, you are not reformists by overturning the Constitution by majority blows and destroying the public school, but by defending the citizens and the beauties of our territories from the assault of gas lobby. With my speech, I would like to ask that the Premier communicate promptly when he intends to activate the discussion and dialogue table with the local administrators and the committees of the citizens, even Abruzzo, opposed to the realization of the pipeline. Madam President, I would like to thank you in advance if you would undertake to pass on this request to the President-in-Office of the Council. We await an answer. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u59	Senator Blundo, the presidency will take over.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u62	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, on Saturday I had the opportunity to attend a very large assembly by the borderers in Lavena Ponte Tresa, in the province of Varese. There were more than 600 people present and they complained about a situation that we intend to bring to the attention of the Government with great speed. Essentially, the new agreements that are concluded in recent days between Italy and Switzerland will lead in time to the frontier no longer having those tax benefits that today compensate the very fact of being citizens resident in Italy, but obliged to work abroad. The real risk is that, in the face of the return of capital, the game that will pay the territories (we are talking about more than 60,000 Italian citizens) of the Verbano-Cusio-Ossola, Varese, Como and Sondrio is very salty: essentially, the sterilization from the economic point of view and the loss of hundreds, indeed thousands of jobs. All together we have found ourselves with other political forces to which we have asked to converge. We therefore anticipate to the Government that there will be acts, signed by all political forces willing to do so and represented on the territory of these Provinces, which ask the Government to review the agreements with Switzerland, which otherwise will bring this territory to its knees definitively. This is nothing but an act of justice. The person responsible for negotiating with Switzerland, Vieri Ceriani, declared a few months ago, again in Lavena Ponte Tresa, that this is an act of justice because one would go to level the taxation of these citizens with that of other Italian Regions. It's not like that. The specialty of the border territories is there, it is to be seen; just go and understand. They are territories that have always had economic difficulties and that the cross-border workers themselves partially manage to compensate, also thanks to the ritournaments that return to the municipalities. This is a serious situation, which we believe must be addressed and not dealt with superficially.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u63	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-569.ana.u64	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, February 3, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.58 p.m.
