ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u4	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 10 May 2016 Mr. President, I inform S. V. that the President of the Republic, by his own decree of today, adopted on my proposal, appointed Dr. Carlo CALENDA. F. to Matteo Renzi. We wish the new Minister every success. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u9	I should like to inform you that, as you have already informed Parliament's groups on the short lines, at 4 p.m. tomorrow's Question Time, at 4 p.m., the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, Mr Enrico Costa, will answer questions on the following subjects: state of the dispute over regional legislation; measures to support the family and the birth rate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u12	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business, in connection with the Senate Act 2362, concerning the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 59 of 3 May 2016, which was received by the Senate Offices, I believe, 48 hours ago. The draft law has been assigned exclusively to the Finance Committee in the contact person. The content of the Decree-Law, however, concerns, in most of its points, issues relating to civil procedure, property executions and new enforcement procedures; these are matters which are, in the opinion of the speaker and also in the opinion of other colleagues of the Commission Justice (who may intervene after me), of close relevance or at least of shared relevance of the 2nd Commission. We have already brought this matter before President D'Ascola in the Commission today, who will probably, at the next sitting of the Commission, put to the vote the proposal to request the assignment of this draft law to the Commission together with the 6th Commission, because I repeat that the matter is strictly codistic and procedural, with regard to the implementation of property procedures. So I advance and inform the House of this intention of the 5 Star Movement and perhaps also of other Groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u13	Senator Buccarella, you know that the presidency has already taken a stand. However, I believe that it is possible for the Presidency of the Justice Commission to ask the President of the Senate to verify further.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u16	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. We, as the Group of the North Legacy, in the Commission have just pointed out this incongruity, in our view, about the management of the work in dealing with these important draft laws. In particular, Decree-Law No 59 of 2016 was assigned to the 6th Commission, although it contains largely and for sure in the first five or six articles (i.e. half of the measure) issues related to the enforcement procedure and the process. Among other things, it provides for action on the subject of civil execution, even providing for the institutionalisation of a new real guarantee, the non-possession of the securities pledge. There is also talk of a new treatment of the management of the opposition to execution and of measures relating to the same execution process. Let us bear in mind that, among other things, the bill No 2284, approved by the Chamber of Deputies in March, which will arrive at the Justice Commission, covers the entire reform of the civil process and includes rules that are contained in the decree-law. In the bill no. 2284, which is a delegated law, these rules are indicated among the guiding principles and criteria, and therefore a process of drafting the legislation should be opened subsequently; in this case, however, rules would be approved in a sudden way, within a decree-law, whose conversion times do not allow a different deepening and management of this matter. Since there is a draft law No 2284, which will come to the Justice Commission and which will be dealt with exclusively by that Commission, it is not clear how the Finance and Treasury Commission can approve rules, which will then have to be incorporated into the more general legislation, with the need for a huge coordination work with what will be approved in the Justice Commission. These two issues cannot be dealt with separately: these are important issues. We have therefore made this point in the Commission, not in order to ensure that the Commission treats this matter exclusively, but in order to ensure that it is dealt with by the 2nd and 6th This is the only way to approve a rule that has a meaning and a framework within our legal system. That is why we have made the request in the Commission and we hope that the President of the Commission will put the matter in the Commission and ask the President of the Senate to change the allocation of the measure, so that the draft law No 2362 is dealt with in the second and sixth meetings of the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u19	MUSSINI (Mixed). Madam President, I would like to speak on the same subject, in order to highlight the arguments already put forward by my fellow Members and to support the request made, as I have already done in the Commission and to remind the House as a whole that we are talking about a very sensitive issue for the whole population. We are talking about enforcement and competition procedures and urgent provisions for investors in banks in liquidation. We know very well that this matter has been dealt with in part and has called for public attention, with the act of the Government giving rise to a different way of resolving the issue of loans, which has also been the subject of debate in the press, so that I and other colleagues have called to the House the expression of the opinion formulated by the 2nd Commission, also making a significant contribution. I would remind you that this opinion has been approved with the support of all and that it is not an opposition position. The fact that there are three of us who are dealing with this issue does not mean that it is not shared or shared by the other Members of the Justice Commission. We are therefore calling for this extremely sensitive matter to be dealt with in the Commissions meeting. We shook in the face of the possibility that real estate executions could become a private event and managed exclusively by banks. Now we certainly do not want to imagine that the justice system should give in in terms of guarantees, certainty, transparency for all legal practitioners, from lawyers to anyone who needs clarity, on such a sensitive issue as measures to support businesses and the acceleration of credit recovery. We would not want the justice system to be sufficiently protective for everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u20	It is well known - and as I have already said - that the powers granted to the Permanent Commissions relate to the provision in Rule 34 (5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, so that the President can take the subsequent decisions. This is therefore not a matter for the House, but it was right to raise it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u21	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2299.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u22	Madam President, I have asked to speak in order to highlight a specific point of the measure in our examination, namely the inclusion, through the amendment 2.0,300 of the Government approved by the Commission, of the rule extending the bonus, provided by the last financial for all children who were eighteen years of age in 2016, also to the eighteen-year-olds, resident in Italy, but of non-Community origin. In the 2016 financial year we had approved a measure that concerned not only Italian students, but also students of the European community, but we had improperly left out this band, even numerically contained, of boys who often live in our country, attend the same classes of our children or in any case attend groups of peers in our country and would be cut off from that measure. A request to this effect had already been made to both the Senate and the House. The House also approved an agenda, with the consent of the Government, at the first signature of Mr Sandra Zampa, with whom it was asked, starting from the need to consider strategic for the same development of the country the integration of foreigners resident in our country, the extension of this measure. Today, with the aforementioned amendment, the Government gives a positive response to that request. Some concerns may be raised about the logic of the bonus, but I would like to break a spear with respect to this specific bonus. It introduces a measure for which the State recognizes to the children who reach the age a concession (it was originally an electronic card, while today it has chosen the most effective formula of the application on the smartphone) that, I remember, is very limited being exclusively reserved to the possibility to take advantage of a specific series of cultural services (ingresses to exhibitions, cinema, purchase of books and more), but that represents, also symbolically (but not only symbolically, because 500 euros in the pocket to an eighteen-year-old can also represent the difference between the power to go to theatre or not, between being able to buy a book or not) an element of autonomy of the children. As a teacher I remember the amazement of my pupils, when I brought them into cultural exchange, perhaps in countries of Northern Europe such as Denmark and Sweden, and at times they were obliged to share the experience of sleeping in the home of others with peers who lived alone and who at eighteen to nineteen years had already left the family of origin to start building their own path. The State in other countries - I am thinking of the United States - grants students substantial loans in order to continue their studies. In our country we have few measures that guarantee our children an independent life. We prefer to maintain the idea that, within the family of origin, a piece of welfare takes place - and of course we must acknowledge and recognize the value of this service that the families of origin carry out - but often these are mechanisms that do not facilitate the autonomization of the paths of life of young people in our country. If we want our young people not to be improperly accused of excessive mammism, we must also ensure that they build their autonomy. I believe that this possibility of starting to have two virtual money in your pocket to build a greater cultural depth in this first phase of their autonomousization is a positive fact. I just wanted to add one final remark. Among the sub-amendments submitted to the Government's amendment, there was one of the League in which it was asked to subordinate the possibility of recognizing the card to the non-Community 18-year-olds - beyond whether or not they are students - to the grant of the certificate of extinction for the fulfilment of the integration agreement referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic n. 179 of 2011. That integration agreement has aims, which are precisely those of producing a higher level of knowledge of the language, the Constitution, institutions, social life, of how the labour market works rather than the health system in our country. I therefore believe that it would be improper to decide to subordinate the recognition of the card - which allows access to the theatres rather than to books, therefore to culture - which can represent one of those instruments aimed at the integration of foreigners in our country, as provided for in the same decree on the integration agreement, to the completion of that path. On the contrary, I believe that the granting of the card represents, precisely from the perspective that inspired that measure, an instrument that the State makes available to these children in order to ensure that this integration takes place better. At the moment when we are discussing - and I hope we will soon come to define it - the possibility of obtaining citizenship from foreign children living in our country, I believe that this is a small step that goes in that very important direction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u23	We greet the mayors of Valsugana, in Trentino, today in Rome, for the withdrawal of the Blue Flag of Europe for the lakes of Levico and Caldonazzo, which seems important to me. [[Applause]] We also greet the students, students and teachers of the University of Lusia, in the province of Rovigo. Welcome to the Senate, too. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u24	Since we are in the wake of the applause, we also wish Senator Schifani a happy birthday. Happy birthday, Senator. [[Applause. Senator Berger's comments.]] All right, well, good luck to all those who turn their years today. Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u25	Madam President, here we are again talking about school, less than a year after the approval of the reform on good school. A decree-law, this at our examination, seemingly harmless: few articles to extend the cleaning services of schools entrusted to external societies and the establishment of a new university. This is yet another buffer measure to try to solve the nodes not addressed by the good school, starting with cleaning services, daily maintenance. We are talking about the externalizations of services, precarious work and LSU never hired: over 21,000 people, 50% of whom are in the Southern regions, unemployed or cassintegrate that the Prodi Government in 2001 decided to stabilize within the schools for cleaning work, but in 2007 the cleaning works were taken away from the local authorities to externalize them. Downward races, including 30 and 50 percent, have led firms to reduce working hours and wages. The effects are evident to all: poor clean schools, low maintenance, inappropriate and dangerous jobs for workers. The beautiful schools project are resources for small maintenance jobs with the obligation to do them through the cleaning contractors or with the ATA staff, the only way to guarantee jobs. Yet, the deadline of 31 March for fine schools led to the dismissal of 8,000-9,000 redundancies. We are, therefore, faced with a real social emergency and with this extension, however, we must say that we simply postpone the problem. Extension that, however, canton (to which the Government entrusted the ethical sense and legality of its work) has strongly questioned for obvious illegality. On the contrary, it is urgent for us to proceed to an extraordinary plan of recruitment of the ATA, with the stabilization of all the precarious ones and the internalization of the cleaning services, because you must have the honesty to admit that the externalizations have failed: they have produced precariousness, increase of the expense, worsening of the quality of the services and often corruption. The presentation of the decree-law was, however, a weapon of distraction to conceal the amendments of the rapporteur and the government that seek to repair the damage and effects of Law no. 107 of 13 July 2015. It's an arduous undertaking now. In fact, it is not possible to re-introduce the rules before Law 107 without knowing that, in the meantime, the effects of that measure have had their outcome. The famous paragraph 108 has set in motion a system and the mere fact of trying to change it produces damage automatically. We forced the precarious rankings to exhaustion (GAE), to be hired, to apply at national level and, therefore, to be tossed or exiled in every place, very often hundreds of kilometers away from their families. We had abundantly denounced this during the reform debate on good school, but we had been reassured. What has happened in this school year is clear to all: sacrifices, many diseases, expectations, a thousand devices to be able to rightly return home, to their children and to their families. It's crazy to have allowed all this and let alone give them the opportunity to come home again. But at what price and on whose skin? There are about 45,000 AGE teachers who have not applied for employment in order not to undergo national deportation. What will happen to all of them now? Will they continue to work on annual assignments or lose their jobs? Will they be given the opportunity to apply and be hired because in the meantime the rules of engagement have changed? Divide et impera. This arrogant exercise of power through discretionary assumptions is shameful. We have repeatedly denounced the fact that under Law 107 there was no recruitment of the precarious children's schools in the AGE and that there would soon be a problem of social justice and a shortage of staff in schools. The competition has just begun and in September we will not have the results to be able to make the hirings. We then accept an amendment for the recruitment of those who are in the rankings of merit 2012: their right, no doubt, is a pity that we talk only about Campania, Lazio and Sicily. The magic of the elections makes us forget the existence of the AGE. You have a responsibility to keep the war open between the precarious because you refused to make a long-term plan to stabilize them. But you prefer the quests, so you can grant or not the right to work. We have no news of the delegation of project 0-6, but an amendment replaces the definition of the essential levels of educational services and services by the definition of "standard educational needs" because - we have been told - Europe is asking us to do so. We would simply like to recall that the theme of the essential levels is recalled by our Constitution, particularly after the reform of Title V, in order to identify unity, indivisibility and egalitarian use. The State identifies the essential levels for harmonising the principle of autonomy and equality, with a strong link between the first and second parts of the Constitution. The State, therefore, establishes the unitary needs, valid throughout the national territory, to which the Regions must adhere when they legislate. In compliance with those requirements, for example, children's schools and kindergartens can be spoken of. Instead, the reference to the Constitution is deleted and the definition of standard educational needs is introduced. What are they? The standard needs are the economic indicators that should enhance cost efficiency and effectiveness, a service objective to which local administrations must strive (definition, this, used by CNEL). It is therefore a different definition from the essential levels and then there are many doubts. Are you thinking of turning the 0-6 band into a service to the person rather than a service to collective demand? Are we talking about standard educational needs to find, for example, a legislative cover for the shameful operation in Florence with the procurement of municipal children's schools to private individuals? Thanks to the continuous cuts, also yours, the State is not able to take charge of the schools of the municipal childhood and so the City of Florence chooses to pass their management to the cooperatives, replacing the figure of the teacher with that of the educator. That is why we are talking about standard educational needs, other than Europe. And maybe you think you're raising all this to a national model. It is known that the additional resources for this government are found, but only for private schools. One of the latest amendments tabled by the Government provided for further funding to private schools for 2017, in the name of the presence of disabled pupils. It is a very serious issue that cannot be dealt with superficially, but I would like to remind you that every year the State pays to private schools 200 million, to which 25 million more have been added by the 2016 Stability Act; 225 million are already distributed with the criterion of disability. What are we talking about then? Nobody is opposed to interventions in support of disability, but here there is a question of draining resources from state school to private school. The fund is used for state schools, where support teachers are lacking in order to guarantee the constitutionally guaranteed right to study for disabled children. There is no principle of equality between private schools either. Private schools in other bodies that are not local can always hire teachers, including support, and it would be serious if they had not done so in recent years. The schools of local authorities, however, have not been able to assume for many years because there are the constraints imposed by the Stability Pact and the blockade of recruitment. Perhaps it would be useful then to allocate resources to the schools of the local authorities for this precise purpose and to allocate additional resources to the recruitment of teachers of support for the state school. For once, we prevent public state school from being discriminated against and humiliated. I would like to remind you that the decree-law has remained firm in the Commission for many weeks, not because of the obstruction of oppositions, but because of the Government's continuing referrals, which have constantly changed the original text, so much so that many amendments, even tabled by us, on which we thought we were receiving a judgment of extraneousness of matter have been accepted. Despite all the time, no space has been left to a confrontation with oppositions; a real space to face real problems. Every time we talk about school we find confirmation that the ideology of man only in command is predominant and democracy becomes an annoying harp, as demonstrated by the umpteenth confidence that the Senate is going to vote, as announced this morning by President Napolitano. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, while I reserve the right to give a thorough and detailed analysis of the decree-law under consideration in the explanation of vote, I would like to address in this speech the specific issue of the school of children and, in particular, of equal schools. Although there is a uneven situation in the national context - we go from Regions such as the Veneto where private peer schools cover more than 66% of the service to Regions where this percentage is around 10% - it is clear and well known to all the serious difficulties they face for the budgetary situation these schools and the dramatic situation that sees many of these forced to stop the activity because of the impossibility to close the budgets. I would also like to point out the case of Veneto, on which I draw attention precisely to the gravity of the situation: last week the regional manager did not have the guarantee that she could have the organic endowment necessary to increase the number of sections of the state nursery school in order to meet the need to welcome children who attended peer schools that have closed or will close because no one is able to guarantee a balanced budget. If I have to be more explicit, I inform you that from next school year, if the current situation persists, in some municipalities there would be children who could not attend the nursery school at their place of residence, unless parents resort to public or equal schools of other municipalities - not only minor municipalities - with obvious discomfort and with greater burden on families. In this context, therefore, it is welcome that an amendment by the Government has been introduced to grant a contribution to equal schools that receive children with disabilities. In the current situation these schools do not have the financial capacity to be able to recruit teachers with specific skills for the handicap, teachers who in the public school are guaranteed by the State, creating a clear and unjustified discrimination. In fact, many equal schools are forced to refuse the registration of disabled children. This picture emerges from the analysis of frequency data. In public schools, the number of pupils with disabilities is twice as high as that of the peer school, and these are not local situations, as it is a given with the same characteristic in the various regions. What is proposed with the decree-law in question is a first, small intervention in favour of equals. It is a starting point and absolutely cannot be the definitive solution to the problem. With the EUR 1,000 that will be possible with the establishment of the fund of 12.2 million, it is unthinkable, in fact, to be able to hire a teacher for the duration of a school year. The deductibility of expenditure within the limit of EUR 400 for each child has also been a step forward, but too small to guarantee the effective freedom of choice of parents, provided for in the Constitution, in the school attendance of children. We must not forget that Law No 62 of 2000 has created the legal basis for achieving effective equality. Sixteen years have passed since then and little, too little, has been done. It's certainly not this government's fault. The responsibility lies with all governments which have succeeded each other since 2000. To this Government that has intended to embark on a new path, which I appreciate, I ask that in the exercise of the delegation entrusted by Law No 107 relating to the school of children, the question of the dual system of Italian school and, in particular, of children should be addressed in a structural and definitive way. I cannot fail to point out that the cost that the State bears for each child who attends public school is more than twice as much as that borne by equal education. And I also remember that the contribution that the MIUR grants for each attendee is 500 euros, while the cost for a child to the public school is little less than 6,000 euros per year. I quote costs made public last summer by the association TreeLLLE and MIUR. A simple economic consideration, without taking into account the quality of service, must also reflect on the imperative need for greater support for equal schools. For other matters contained in this decree-law I reserve the right to speak in the explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u28	Madam President, I am speaking because I do not know whether I will be able to do so at the stage of the amendment. In fact, there is a rumor that this measure will be subject to yet another question of trust. I have tabled an amendment which applies to us, and I am sorry that the Government is not present at this stage in the person of the State Secretary for Education. I trust, however, Senator Pizzetti who is attentive to the discussion. I am talking about amendment 2,201, which should have been discussed in this House and which concerns the articulation of the Fund for the ordinary financing of the university, which collects all the universities of Italy on the basis of criteria defined by the Ministry and which should be fair. I mean - there is much talk of justice in this House - that justice is not just what is done in the courts. Justice is also what is done with acts of government and is done in this Parliament: it is justice in the highest sense of the term, that is, the one that makes a society just, that does not discriminate. Well, most of the criteria invented to manage the fund refer to the student population and, on the basis of the definition of the student population, the appropriations are allocated to each of the universities. For central Italy the student population is worth 30 million inhabitants, while for island Italy, ours, is worth much but much less, because we are 1,600,000 inhabitants. Universities in the peninsula benefit from the criteria and, therefore, take more money. And, be careful, they take more money in 2016 snatching a share of funding to the Sardinian universities on the basis of this criterion, because - as is known - those universities can accommodate the student population from other regions. And since it is considered an additional score to have Conterminous Regions, being Sardinia an island, of contermine has the Mediterranean Sea that - as is known - does not host population, not even student. The result of this story is that 4, 5, 6 million euros in 2016 will be snatched to Sardinia and data to other national universities. And this is well known by the Ministry, since it has met the rectors of Sassari and Cagliari and the President of the Region; it has made a commitment and made this provision, but that commitment has already taken it back, because there is no line on the subject. Now you will make the maxi amendment, in which you restore the funding of at least 2015 for the Sardinian Region for 2016; do it with this content because inside that fund the money is and cannot always be taken from a community, such as the island one, which is discriminated against at national level. It is a responsibility of the Government, of the majority and of Parliament. It can be done: the right justice can be done, even with these kinds of acts and with the adoption of such amendments. I wish the government had listened, because I expect a positive response, not a negative one. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u29	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, trust has not been announced by the Government, but by former President Napolitano. Who knows why? But that's the way it is. Trust will be placed. Yet we have worked very well in the Commission, we have tabled and discussed the amendments, we have voted on them and, above all, we have given the rapporteur a mandate. Strange, all this is very strange, also because, apparently, the government of democracy and the work of the Commission is not interested, and that is serious. Just as it is serious that he is not interested in school, disability and all the problems that are functionally discussed here, but on which in reality it seems that there is nothing but disinterest. This is absurd. However, the text has two deadlines: extension and stabilisation. The extension is for the program of beautiful schools, but anyone goes to see what are the schools, our schools, realizes that they have nothing beautiful, starting from the threshold to enter them, as well as the gardens, the walls, the windows, the windows, the ceilings and the false ceilings. I had the chance to turn the classes, I saw the janitor's aulettes where there were the paint bins and the stucco ready to be used to put on the ceiling, with a ladder with which the janitor could have arranged. When I asked how he would do it, I was told that he didn't worry because he had the manager's approval. How do you get the manager's approval? Yeah, he does. These are realities that are completely denied. You always work in total shame, in pretending because colleagues are blackmailed, the manager knows what to do. They say: Don't worry, I know what my job is. The text states that a further 64 million are given to extend the work of beautiful schools to November 2016. We wonder what the beautiful schools are. And, above all, there is an amendment that aims to give an additional 12.2 million to equal schools and talk about disability integration. It is, however, a fake integration, because in most equal schools, pupils with disabilities are not only not welcomed, but are even seen as a nuisance, because the pupils who spit and create problems are bothering because there are no teachers to support them. The 12 million are then added to the additional 500 million per year in equal schools, taking away the value of the fund for public schools, the Fund for the improvement and enhancement of education. All this does not serve the future of our country and does nothing but bring down our country in reality. Here we talk about good things, good school; we speak in fiction, because in reality everything is very different. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u31	Senator Ferrara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, with the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 42 of 2016, which lays down urgent provisions on the functionality of the school system and research, we are dealing with an article on urgent provisions for the decoration of school buildings and for the provision of cleaning and auxiliary services in schools. During this debate, we discussed it a lot. The rapporteur, Senator Puglisi, in her report proposed an historical excursus of the story and did well, because it is true that the school is a divisive theme, but often the historical reconstructions of what we are discussing in this House are the result of torsions of memory. It is, therefore, good that it has been remembered that the origins of the measure are of 2009 and what have been the passages until today. The rapporteur has also made a detailed analysis of the state of the art, a situation which should not be relegated to slogans and delays simplifications for respect especially of the workers and workers involved. In line with the extraordinary plan on school building, over 12,000 interventions have been launched in two years - as can be seen on the site, and the data are provided by the management cabin - divided into new schools, safe schools, innovative schools and beautiful schools. The decree-law refers in particular to the restoration of the decorum and functionality of school buildings, with respect to which an agreement was reached, signed on 8 March 2016, between the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the MIUR, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies, trade union organisations and representatives of the consortiums awarded Consip contracts; agreement in which the Government has committed itself to support the continuation of the program until the date of 30 November 2016, through the allocation of additional 64 million euros in the year 2016. According to the explanatory report, in the absence of an extension, in the Campania and Sicily Regions, where the Consip framework convention for the provision of cleaning services and other auxiliary services is not yet active, the outsourcing of the service and the allocation to schools of their financial resources would be impossible from 31 July next. The reasons for urgency of the decree-law are, therefore, evident in the first article, as they appear to be manifest in relation to the second article, that relating to the provisions for the stabilization and recognition of the experimental school of international doctorate Gran Sasso Science Institute. In this morning's debate on this point we received a special satisfaction from those who see in this virtuous reality a great opportunity for a deeply wounded territory. Of course, this topic has also opened a more general discussion on research policies, on which the 7th Senate Commission has often faced, assuming forms of coordination useful for synergies and enhancement of quality. The amending passages have enriched this decree-law of ulterior contents that refer to contingent situations of equal importance. For brief reasons, I would like to mention a few of them, which I think are worthy of emphasis, knowing that a great deal of attention has been paid to urgent measures for the temporary assignment of teaching staff in the role of teaching staff. The ratio - as has been said - is to tend to the greater proximity to the territories of residence of the teachers, when they will definitely choose the chair. As well as a lot of attention - and it will prove to be an effective measure - it is right to put on the provisions concerning the teachers of the childhood school, which provide that the teachers inserted in the rankings of 2012, not assumed in the regional roles by incapience, can be recruited in Regions other than that for which they have competed up to the maximum of the percentage no more than 15 percent compared to the places available for each Region. A ministerial decree issuing the MIUR within thirty days of the conversion of this decree-law will define the terms and methods referable also to the order of preference among all the regions of the state school system that teachers will have to indicate. Particularly noteworthy is the arrangement for short or occasional assignments, on which we know there have been serious delays in the payment of salaries. This aspect has not been stressed very much. It is a subject on which I also felt, at the time, to receive the cry of pain of so many school alternates who received the due remuneration with a delay of months. To this extent, the school institutions and the competent bodies of the MIUR and the MEF shall act by activating any appropriate form of cooperation in order to ensure, each for its own competence, the timely allocation of resources to the school institutions and the monthly payment of the amounts payable to the fixed-term staff for the performance of the work rendered. The Council of Ministers, in agreement with the MIUR, shall adopt within 60 days a special decree defining the specific deadlines. Payment shall, however, take place within 30 days following the last day of the reference month. In order to better manage this problem, the teaching substitute staff or ATA is assigned a unique identification code, which accompanies the life of the alternate until - hopefully - the role that everyone wants, in order to optimize and simplify the procedures for managing the legal status of the school staff. In the decree-law is also contained the increase of 8 million euros for the compensation more than due to the many professionals of the school engaged in these weeks in the commissions of the contests. (17.22) (Ferrara Elena followed). I would like to end my speech with two elements: the first relating to the exclusion from disposable income of welfare, social security and indemnities, including debit cards, received because of the disability condition in the calculation of the ISEE, including for the recognition of facilitated school benefits. This is a measure of utmost urgency and strongly awaited by stakeholders, as well as by many students who see the right to study recognized. This is a device on which the ANCI has also expressed great satisfaction in the last few hours. The second point is the amendment of the law of stability, paragraph 979 - also mentioned by others - which, from the conversion into law, defines the recipients of the electronic card of the value of 500 euros in a different way. In order to promote the development of culture and the knowledge of cultural heritage to all residents in the national territory, in possession, where provided, of valid residence permit, who are eighteen years of age in the year 2016, an electronic card of 500 euros is assigned. It is €290 million in 2016 to be borne by MIBACT. The card can be used to attend theatrical and cinematographic performances, for the purchase of books, as well as for the entry to museums, exhibitions and cultural events, monuments, galleries, archaeological areas, natural parks and live shows. The sums allocated with the card do not constitute taxable income of the beneficiary, with regard to the ISEE speech. Just Monday, in Rome, the association Save the Children, on the occasion of the campaign "Illuminate the Future" presented the report "Freeing children from educational poverty: where are we?" This is an issue that we have also addressed in the Fourth National Plan for Children and in the Stability Act with provisions that are also important in terms of resource allocation. The concern stems from some data from which emerges a rather critical relationship between the youth group and our cultural heritage. In Italy, 48 percent of children between six and seventeen years of age did not read a book, except school books, in the year prior to the survey; 69 percent did not visit an archaeological site; 55 percent never set foot in a museum and 46 percent - practically one in two - did not carry out any sports activity. This measure confirms once again the attention of the Government, and certainly of this House, to the quality of the school that our society needs most; a school that, in the process of acculturation and training for all, sees the key to building a present and a future based on active citizenship, aware of its identity and for this dialogue, democratic and inclusive. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u33	The general debate is closed. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the debate and also to the authoritative contributions made by Senator Cattaneo and President emeritus Napolitano, particularly on research issues. I personally share many of the issues raised about the need to relaunch research first, after, for example, the cut of EUR 1 400 million by the Berlusconi Government. [[Comments of Senator Arrigoni]] The Italian university and research from 2008 to 2010 have not collapsed - I would like to remind you - only for the 500 million per year put by the pact Padoa Schioppa-Mussi, but this is just one example. There are many necessities. The theme of the National Research Agency has often been addressed in the Commission with colleagues and we have also written, as a Democratic Party and as forces of the majority, several documents and proposals that I believe the Government is considering. I don't know if the term "agency" in this country sometimes gives the chills to the back, thinking of yet another wheelchair that then becomes inefficient. But a mission unit that determines what sectors it is necessary to invest as a country, in a rational way and with a great vision, I think it is a topic that we must continue to address together. And this government, in recent years, has not been with its hands. We have clear problems: few graduates with respect to the objectives of Europe 20-20, insufficient connection with the world of work, stagnant social mobility, strong reduction of teaching staff and insufficient number of public and private researchers active because of the too long years of cuts; a labour market of teachers and researchers rigid and anachronistic; few resources difficult to spend and attributed late to the three-year programming needs of universities; school-university breakdown; insufficient alternatives to tertiary non-university training. After the 3 billion per year invested in the 2015 Stability Act with good school and the 2016 Stability Act, the first major signals for university and research arrived, with a total resource package of around 300 million and measures to boost the competitiveness of the system. The priority is human capital, with a particular look at the youngest and their entry into the research career. In addition, there is a particular emphasis on the attraction of talents from abroad, which is also among the central themes of the new national research programme, which has just been approved, with an important growth of 500 million (2.5 billion total), which complements the resources of the Fund for the ordinary funding of the university. In the Stability Act, we have also launched an extraordinary plan for the recruitment of more than 1,000 B-type researchers, 215 in research institutions and 861 in universities. The extraordinary plan of 6 million euros (then 10 million for 2017) for the recruitment of first-class professors was launched. There are 25 million euros for the university's prizes and 55 million euros more for the fund for the right to study, which total 217 million. It is not so much, and we are aware that we must continue to invest for the right to study the capable and deserving, if we want to increase the number of graduates in our country (we need them). But it's still the highest figure in the last 15 years. There have been total turnover unblocking for younger researchers, those of type A, and consolidation forever, with an investment of 86 million euros in 2013, of 6,000 contracts for medical residents, which will reduce the scissors between registered and resident. Among the things done is also the reactivation, after time, of the 2015 PRIN ban, with 92 million for the basic research of the public system. Over 4,000 proposals have already arrived, the evaluation of which will close in the autumn. As for the project Human Technopole Italia 2040, launched with Decree-Law No 185 of 2015, we know that observations on the project are expected a few days from the panel of independent international experts, to which the Ministry of Education, University and Research has addressed to have an impartial and qualified evaluation on the project of realization of a technical-scientific pole in the Expo area 2015. The scientific committee is led by the Institute of Technology in Genoa, which - I would like to remind you - is a foundation under private law, but whose members are public and therefore pursue public objectives. The Technological Institute has drawn up the project, will accept the comments of the International Committee and will deliver the final masterplan to Palazzo Chigi; then, in the next steps, this Parliament will be fully involved. As you know and as you have mentioned, it provides for a ten-year investment of about 1.5 billion and the recruitment of 1,500 researchers, 1,000 staff, including 150 researchers technology and 400 PhDs, with the coordination of the MIUR, constantly monitored and evaluated according to international standards. In addition to the Institute of Technology - as is well known - will collaborate not only the three state universities of Milan (Polytechnic, State University and Bicocca University), but also a network of hospital structures of excellence, such as the European Institute of Oncology, the National Institute of Cancers, Humanitas, the Neurological Institute Carlo Besta and the Policlinic Major Hospital. Also involved are important research bodies that have no location in Milan (the list is long), such as CINECA, CREA and CNR. The great technological center of Milan will focus on the understanding of the correlation between genomic nutrition, aging and life expectancy, in the direction of what is called precision medicine. The general objective is, in fact, to use genomics, big data and new diagnostic techniques to develop personalised approaches, to address in particular cancers and neurodegenerative diseases, to build on new biotechnology approaches applied also to agriculture. They are all themes on which there is a vocation and excellence in our country. Therefore, foundations and companies are involved in this project to attract private investment and act as a start-up incubator as soon as possible. As we know, the project is divided into seven centres, based in Expo, around which laboratories and outstations will operate. The seven centers in which it will be articulated will be supported by three facilitation services, used by all Technopole scientists: the first will be a genomic platform, the second a imaging center and the third an ambitious data storage and high performance computing center. All this long listing serves to say that other institutions will continue to be involved in the project, over the years and in an open way. In order to respond in particular to Senator Cattaneo's questions, if we think that research is an essential element for the growth of the country, we need a vision of development towards which we tend and go. This great investment must, therefore, serve our country to develop growth, according to a vision and with certainty. As for the questions asked by Senator Cattaneo, if the cluster or the investment comes first and if the investments or projects must be top-down or bottom-up, of course I am not a scientist, but, humbly, I think so: Governments can play an important role in supporting the birth of a cluster, which then of course must continue to support. Of course, we need favorable policies, laws and tax regimes, adequate policies also on residence permits for those we welcome in our country for research projects, low costs of university education, increased expenditure on research and development, on which we will have to continue working together, Government and Parliament. The success of a research project depends not only on how much you invest, but also on the people and relationships they manage to establish. This is why an area has been chosen in which to concentrate an investment and a wide network of researchers and relations between researchers and industry. It will certainly also take the push from below, to make Human Technopole an area of success for our country and for this it serves not aversion, but participation. Returning to investing in research, we are in fact returning to investing in the future of the country. Then I want to respond to some solicitations or perhaps provocations contained in other interventions, such as that of Senator Centinario. I have to say that yours seemed more like an intervention addressed to your government. The time for toilet paper to be taken to school is over. You cut the EUR 8 billion: this is where you invested EUR 3 billion a year and EUR 126 million a year for the Fund for the functioning of schools. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of the Senators Bottici and Fattori]] I have kids who go to elementary and middle school and I know that toilet paper doesn't have to be taken from home anymore! With regard to the other relevant issue highlighted by Senator Uras, on the importance, in the marginal areas of the country, of investing, by the Government - even more, if possible - for the development of universities and research institutions, I can only accept the invitation. The appeal I make to everyone is to work together. Finally, there's a government that doesn't cut, but invests. We need the participation and enthusiasm of all, and here there are skills, like that of Senator Cattaneo, that can make an important contribution, because we love Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u35	We greet the pupils and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Sandro Pertini" of Martinsicuro, in the province of Teramo, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u37	We are in the process of replying, but, exceptionally, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u38	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, I request that the Rules of Procedure not be examined. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's finish the reruns and then face your request. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur and all the members of the Commission here today for the work that has been done on this draft law. The debate in the Chamber has also been constructive, important and certainly contributes to the work of the Government that considers education and research fundamental for the country. As many Members have already pointed out, the decree-law deals with some fundamental points, such as the extension of the beautiful schools programme and - as has already been said in this House - it is important because it guarantees the functionality of schools. Then there is the stabilisation of the Gran Sasso Institute, which highlights the importance that this school can continue its activity after the excellent work it has done on the territory. The Gran Sasso school - as some colleagues have said and, in particular, Senator Pezzopane - has also obtained the evaluation of ANVUR and, therefore, it seemed right for us to continue in our path. The decree-law also intervenes on other topics: urgent measures are envisaged - for example - for pupils with disabilities. As Senator Conte has pointed out, in many regions peer schools offer 66 percent of the service and, therefore, it is important to guarantee them the opportunity to welcome disabled children. As you know, the surgery is minimal: you guarantee about a thousand euros per child. Today there are about 12,000 disabled children in equal schools. In addition, more efficient procedures are foreseen for the payment times of short and occasional supplements, up to a maximum of thirty days. The compensation for Commissioners employed in competitions, such as the one currently in place, is doubled. The 18-year-old bonus also extends to children residing in Italy and with non-EU citizenship. I think a civilized country can't talk about integration if it doesn't really integrate the kids. It is important to give everyone the opportunity to access culture and everything that helps to improve and integrate them into the civil country that hosts them. The current ISEE framework is amended to ensure and exclude from disposable income, which is the subject of the declaration, the economic treatment received by persons with disabilities by reason of their condition. As part of the general discussion this morning, some Members raised issues relating to the Human Tecnopole project. First of all, I would like to stress how the Government intended to collect the great legacy of Expo, which led scholars from all over the world to discuss the issues of nutrition and sustainable development in Milan. These concepts find a moment of synthesis in the Milan Charter. The Government has, therefore, planned a first appropriation of 80 million to collect just what Expo has produced, and that must not be forgotten, in order to establish an international research center in Milan. In this context, IIT has been asked to play a leading role, taking into account the Institute's profile of excellence and international importance. Also from the presentation of Human Technopole that appears on the IIT website, it is clear that the seven directors of the research centers will be selected on the basis of international calls immediately, according to standard international call procedures. At the same time, we will build a board of guidelines that will ensure institutional governance, with respect to which the participation of the MIUR will ensure the link with the university system and Italian research. With reference to the evaluation of the project, I highlight how nine evaluators have been identified, all operating abroad, from the United States, to Japan, passing through Germany and the United Kingdom. The criterion used to identify evaluators is the recognised scientific merit at global level, combined with the management experience of large research centres operating in the scientific areas covered by the project. After receiving all the feedback from the international evaluators, IIT will review the project, to take account of the comments-suggestions and thus arrive at a final project to be submitted to the Government. We expect this process to be completed within a few weeks. The complete project, at that point, will be made public, and the judgements of the evaluators will also be made public: everyone can, therefore, get an idea of how the judgments of the eminent international scientists, leading some of the most prestigious research centers in the world, have been integrated in the final version of the project. It is therefore already envisaged that this should be done in full transparency, as is the practice in the international scientific community, which is inspired by the project from the first day of its conception. The Government is naturally willing to provide, if requested in the appropriate parliamentary forums, all the information that will be deemed necessary. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u42	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would simply like to invite Mr D'Onghia, the next time, before coming to the House to read a text, to read it first at least a couple of times, at least to give us the feeling of knowing the subject. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u43	Everyone has their own function. We now turn to the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak. [[Senator Martelli's comments.]] Senator Martelli, I prevent your objection. In this case Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure governing the examination of agendas applies; therefore, as with the agendas, the opinion of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government is foreseen. This is the procedure that applies; if we have to change that too! Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u44	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u45	The opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u46	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the debate on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u49	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, partly because we would like to avoid the 58th confidence of this parliamentary term, provided that we manage to keep track. A colleague tells me that we are at 56... ASTORRE (PD). 60! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). My colleague tells me he wants to get to 60. Mr ASTORRE (PD). 70! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Even 70. It is not acceptable that this has become the ordinary method of approving draft laws. Mr Boschi, who is here with us, is devoid of having done the same thing to the House of Deputies, placing the confidence in a measure that was not possible to vote in the Senate even once. We could only vote on confidence: not one vote in the Commission, not one vote in this House. Something more could be done about the school, but here we are again: we are still in a situation where problems cannot be deepened. It's weird that the laws don't work. Today we are dealing with the problem of schools. This year the schools may have toilet paper, but those who talk to staff, families and students know that schools are in a situation of serious shortage. Yet they found the money to finance with 60,000 euros every job earned with the jobs act, then find out that many of these jobs are fake. That's weird! The problem was raised during the parliamentary debate on the measure, but of course trust was also raised in that case, because we must do it quickly, quickly and badly and - above all - without allowing Parliament to speak. I remember that Parliament, even with the electoral law we know, is elected by the citizens, while the government is not. Our Constitution provides for this, but it would not be bad if it had passed through a preventive screening. Here too, we must do things without debate and, in particular, we must not discuss and disturb the Members of the majority who are obliged to vote on the measures through the confidence mechanism. This mechanism is not good for us; it is not good for us for the government to continue this way. Madam Minister, I take advantage of your presence to say something. I don't know why you don't wear the rainbow pin you had in the House of Deputies anymore. Maybe he's got the school pin here. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The government should at least answer questions. In fact, since Members cannot discuss and vote on draft laws, the Government should at least answer questions. Three weeks ago, this House unanimously voted on a motion that commits the Government to answering questions on which it has a resounding backwardness, far worse than that of all previous governments. We don't have a trace. I am sorry to refer to one of my questions, but I know you better than those put forward by others. Today the newspapers report the news of a 500 million euro deal that should be collected by the state and that, instead, are given to a private company. I am referring to the Brescia-Padova motorway, which can provide a bank with a profit of EUR 600 million, which would be of the state. I tabled questions on this subject months ago and asked for the answer. President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. The planned 30-day deadline expires in four days and so far there has been no response. The government doesn't want to answer because it wants to do its own business without accountable to anyone. That is why voting in favour of the proposal not to go through the articles is a good thing. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u52	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to add my remarks to what my fellow Members have already said, pointing out that the Senate has never been able to hold a full, serene and fruitful debate on the subject of school, with the technically qualifying contribution that the senators present could make. It seems like the school is some kind of taboo for this government. It is not permissible to talk about school; it is not permissible to put the face of individual senators on individual articles and on whether or not to vote in favour of individual amendments. I understand that the world of school doesn't have the tools that other worlds have to make themselves heard. The strike of May 5 last year was characterized by a wide participation, but it was ridiculed by those who instead should have considered with great care just the malaise that all the operators of the school have expressed, with significant figures in the course of the activity of this Government, going down to the squares to say their no especially to the method rather than the content of the Giannini law, that curiously continues to be called law 107, as if the first signatory almost ashamed to put his name and his face on its contents. The measure, however, is slow to release and is creating, especially on the school system, disconcerted and disorientation, all aspects very far from the completely publicistic patina of effectiveness, promptness and solution of problems. There was no problem with the school. On the school came a hood of general disinterest and teachers were basically left alone. Today, with the request of this confidence, they are slapped once more, because once again they are left alone and they are prevented from elected parliamentarians and legitimately called to represent the will of the citizens who elected them to represent them. Once more, the school is left alone. I would like to see modesty in this Senate, when it comes to major issues that call for education, to keep quiet and not to ask the school to continue giving, when it is not even given the dignity of being represented with a serious parliamentary path.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u55	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I think it is appropriate to make a few remarks on the points made by my fellow Members. We can pretend not to hear, but the considerations of Senator Malan, in my opinion, deserve a deepening because we are actually witnessing, at this last stage, a degeneration in the proliferation of trusted votes. This cannot be charged exclusively to this Government, because it is a practice that in the last legislatures has undergone progressive exponential increases, with all governments, with central-left and centre-right governments. The type of government changed; most of the time the appeals of the state's high judiciary were also ignored. I would remind you, for example, of President Napolitano's precise remarks when he referred to another very worrying practice: the train of the urgent decree used to affix wagons with materials outside the proposition of the decree-law in the initial phase. No one can wake up now. That's what I want to support. Senator Russo, I am addressing you above all because I know that you are a person, like the Minister, who is particularly attentive to this issue, and we should not fail to try to put a moment of attention on this subject. The fact that things have gone this way, coinciding with a constitutional reform that obliges all of us to a higher rate of virtue for the future, requires us, in my opinion, to reflect on the need to make a change in these attitudes, otherwise we all agree that things continue to get worse and I believe that this is not good. On the other hand, I note that this is another issue on the subject of the inspection union. I do not know what you referred to, but it seems to me that the Renzi Government has committed itself to giving answers. For example, I note that President Renzi, in some circumstances, reversing a practice that has been going on for many years, has personally participated in the question time to give the answers that, in recent years, no President of the Council has given any longer in the course of the question time. That is a good thing, but I trust the Minister's political intelligence to say that, in my opinion, the remarks he has heard should not be rejected from the sender. I hope that the Government will take care of this because it is an important issue, which concerns the role of the Chambers and, in my opinion, also the way in which they are legislated.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u58	DIVINE (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u59	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Before proceeding to the vote, I invite the Secretary Senators to withdraw the abandoned cards. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles put forward by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment that I am going to present, entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 2299, of the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 42 of 29 March 2016, transposing the amendments proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u61	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, it sends the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly about the financial coverage profiles. I call on the Conference of Group Leaders to organise the debate and therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 6.06 p.m. and resumed at 6.23 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u62	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the bill of conversion of the decree-law on the functionality of the school system and research, with amendments approved by the Education Commission. For the debate on confidence, which will begin immediately after the opinion given by the Commission on the financial effects of the maxi amendment, time was allocated in one hour and fifteen minutes on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will take place tomorrow morning from 9.30 a.m. onwards. As the Budget Committee meets at 6.30 p.m., I suspend the sitting until 645 p.m. I would ask the Groups to send the members of the Group to the Presidency to speak in the debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 6.25 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u63	I call the President of the 5th Budget Committee, Senator Tonini, to report on the financial cover profiles of amendment 1,900.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u64	Mr President, the 5th Commission, as authorised by the President of the Senate, has examined Amendment 1,900 and found that it fully reproduces the text approved by the 7th Commission, supplemented by the conditions proposed by the 5th Commission. The latter also found that the technical report, which was regularly boiled down by the General Accounting Office of the State, expressed an opinion of nothing precluded without any conditions. The Commission took note and there were no comments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u65	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the request for no passage to the articles has been motivated by precise and precise arguments, even with the deep sense of outrage, which has been felt in the speeches of colleagues and in particular of Mr Malan, who has reminded us that there is now a progressive marginalization of Parliament's activity, which sees increasingly reduced the scope within which to carry out its prerogatives, which are also legislative. It seems, however, that the Parliament is now definitively commissary by the Government, not only on the side of the legislative function, for the constant recourse to the vote of confidence, - we have reached 58 votes of confidence since the beginning of the government chaired by Matteo Renzi - but also in the increasingly evident compression between the recourse to the decree of urgency, repeatedly emphasized as an abused method by the Government, and the consequent vote of confidence, which clearly vulnerates the legislative function, in a definitive and total way, with the decadence of all the proposed amendments. And this is the case with the draft law under consideration. This is a sign of defeat, even in cases where Parliament has acted through the laboriousness of its work in the Commission and through the exchange of ideas and assessments, sometimes harsh, but very often oriented towards identifying the road closest to intercepting people's need. It would have been desirable for this to be adequately reflected. Unfortunately, this does not happen, ladies and gentlemen - and we are very sorry - even when it is quite clear that there is no biased attitude towards the Government. The charm of the amendments tabled to the measure in question, which pits - as it were - work to the bone and which is summed up in less than one hundred amendments, does not tell us of a obstructive attitude of the political opposition forces; anything else. In those amendments we find the hard work of Parliament, the desire and the desire to participate in order to correct and make a contribution to the improvement of the texts. Then we have to deal with the consoling assessment that comes to us from the administrative judge mainly when it is found to have to assess the inadequacy and sloppyness of the legislative prose, the one that lends itself to very often contradictory interpretations, that increases the litigation and that in any case is not aimed to return a legislative product that makes clarity and goes in the direction of resolving the problems of the country. This is the framework in which we are and I believe that at this point it would be very desirable to reverse the trend. I heard Mr Casini's speech, who called for a more balanced attitude on the part of the Government. And we would have gladly accepted an act of repudiation in articulo mortis, because it would have been truly commendable by the Government to amend itself and to prevent the policy of the soon and badly once again in this House from accompanying, like the coffin to the last journey, to the avenue of cypresses, to the delivery of a product that of course is intended only to create the ruin and ruin of a country that is exhausted. In conclusion, because it is also useful to come out of the political proposition and enter into the technical merit of the problems: amendment 2.0.13 (text 2), which was proposed by the Commission with a green disc of the Government, bearing the title "schools of non-medical specializations" is the most serious insult that is done by the Government and the House, if, with the vote of confidence, it will approve this disaster, because it basically betrays itself. I am pleased that Mr D'Onghia is here, and he is responsible for overseeing these issues. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. Instead, those professions that are mentioned in an absolutely wrong way - I dare say deliberately wrong and I will explain why - are instead governed by the recent interministerial decree no. 68 of February 4, 2015, on which the miracle happened, because a fruitful synergy and convergence of views has been created between the Ministry of Health, the MIUR and the Ministry of Economics. What is the reason why you do this scam against professionals? Because you want to remove them from the obligation that the Government has - and what they do well to claim as a right - to recognize him as a scholarship: we talk about the professions of dentistry, pharmacist and medical physicist. This is how the government operates. I say that we should start to feel the sense of shame when we come up with such measures, we approve them with the vote of confidence, expropriating Parliament from its role and above all not allowing Parliament to propose, intelligently, profitably, proactively and usefully to the community, corrective elements. Since it is clear that the Government wants to go on alone and does not want to disturb the maneuverer at all, it remains for us to express our regret and announce the vote against; but above all, beside the vote against, we express our vibrant protest and indignation at this way of operating the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u67	Mr President, we are announcing the vote in favour of the conversion into law of this measure called "beautiful schools," namely the set of rules which, in the intentions of the Government and the Ministry of Education, will have to make schools accessible, safe and better adapted to educational needs. That this measure should continue to be financed for the next few years, I believe, is right and appropriate, but, if we are allowed to do so, we have two points to make. The first relates to the 20,000 workers, socially useful workers, who, under this measure, have already been used within the school to compensate for the shortage of auxiliary staff. This we entrust to the excellent Undersecretary D'Onghia, because in this school someone begins to think about these supporting figures, and not only to implement the audience of teachers. We're also saying that because we've done some math. The agreement that the Government has concluded on March 8, 2016 with the trade unions provides that of these 20,000 socially useful workers 9,000 go to cash integration and 11,000 can continue to carry on their duties for the remainder of the school year, that is until November of this year. The amount charged by the social security fund to give these persons the supplementary fund for the two years 2014-2016 amounts to about 45 million euros; while for the other 9,000 there was financial cover, therefore they will remain in their functions. We wonder, then, if, instead of charging EUR 45 million of debt to the Treasury, in a budget of EUR 850 billion we cannot find just another EUR 21 million - this is the amount that would be lacking - to keep all 20,000 in service. In other words, instead of giving a subsidy - because this is the case - with the INPS integration fund, we would also find 21 million euros for the other 9,000 socially useful workers in the school to continue the work they are responsible for: painting, setting up the gardens, wall works and all that these socially useful workers are called to do. Therefore, there would be not only a saving - EUR 21 million and not EUR 45 million - but also the positive return of 9,000 employees who would not go into quiescence, and who would remain. I'll have the Undersecretary D'Onghia have this reflection of ours. The second complaint was brought forward by my colleague D'Ambrosio Lettieri. Madam Undersecretary, in this nation is consumed an old and hateful injustice regarding the specialization grants of non-medical staff: biologists, pharmacists and other professional figures who take the same specialization course, which they access by competition. In fact, while the graduate doctor has a monthly grant equal to - it seems to me - about 2,000 euros, the other student and professional must take charge of the expenses incurred, not being refunded even a cent. This whole story originates not only from the strength and contractual power that the medical category, well represented here by my friend, Senator Barani, has always had to a greater extent than other professions, but also from a vulgar and bad translation of the measure adopted first by the European Parliament, where the French word médecine, meaning medical area, has been translated into our system with the word medical. Therefore, because of a French word poorly interpreted in Italian, medical graduates receive reimbursement for the specialization school, unlike all other students, health care but not doctors, who are abandoned to themselves. I already know the objection of Deputy Minister Morando, because it will take a few hundred million euros. However, in a school that employs 100,000 teachers, which I believe will cost several tens of billions of euros, you should also find a few hundred million euros to eliminate this hateful inequality between professionals who specialize in their family and professionals who instead enjoy a subsidy rightly recognized by the State. Madam Undersecretary, I entrust you with this observation. The offices that are covered, besides being punishments of God, are a bit like clothes: the day will come when they will resign and remain not the dress, but the person, that is, the scope of the right and opportune things that have been made by covering the office. I therefore call on you to promote the initiative to put an end to this inequality and injustice, because history and thousands of young people will give it credit. [[Applause from the AL-A Group (MpA)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u68	Senator Palermo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u69	Mr President, I should actually have made an explanation of vote, but I preferred a speech that was being discussed for the sake of the majority, let us say that. In fact, since attention is certainly less now, perhaps you can say things that, especially belonging to the majority, you can find it harder to say in the explanation of vote. I think it's appropriate that something stays on the record. The overall assessment of the measure remains positive and favourable and, therefore, the Group for the Autonomies will vote tomorrow in favour of confidence, because the bill - I repeat - as a whole is consistent with the objectives set by the good school. The reform, among other things, as we well know, is full of delegations and, as a result, it is also normal for the Government to take action to exercise them, even if with instruments not always suitable as the decree-law. Then there are many aspects that are widely shared. I am referring, in particular, to all those connected with school construction, on which there is little to discuss because one can only agree. Others are more controversial. I am thinking, for example, of the whole chapter on research. If the positive elements as a whole prevail, we cannot, however, ignore the fact that we are once again faced with the umpteenth repetition of the parliamentary dilemma which, especially for those of the majority, sometimes becomes particularly difficult to bear. Can a government drop for the Gran Sasso PhD experimental school? Of course not. There are enormous responsibilities in the face of a matter of trust that shift the focus from the substance of the measure to the institutional implications that a negative vote would have. It is clear that, in the face of this responsibility, we must think of the country as a whole. However, it is frustrating that there is no possibility of a debate and it is frustrating, sometimes, to protect the choices with which they are justified. It is really difficult, when you want to try to move some small element within a measure, to confront with this legislative technique. I am not saying anything new; we all know that in this House, but that the problem is there and that it is beyond the color of political majorities cannot be silenced. Pretend everything's good and everything works well seems like a hypocrisy that I don't want to associate with. On the substance, I said earlier, the positive elements prevail. The overall objective of the measure, which is to support and improve the overall functioning of the school and research system, is certainly to be welcomed. We all know that there is a desperate need; just see the OECD's figure compared to the number of graduates and research doctors in Italy to realize it. It is very important, positive and fundamental that there is a sort of round game and a break-up in relation to the Stability Pact, but in any case it is money that is being moved and put into circulation. This is certainly positive. It is not only an emergency forecast, but also a regime forecast. This is a good thing; less is the fact that we are intervening in a regime with a decree-law, but I am not going to be a purist because - I repeat - it is a positive fact. Equally positive are the interventions in the field of teachers and school managers, both with regard to the greater clarity of the requirements for the activity of supplementing, and for the introduction and improvement of the systems of evaluation of school managers, the provision of their responsibility and meritorious criteria and the provision of professional courses for certain professional categories such as agrotechnics, geometries, agricultural and industrial experts, while respecting and perhaps increasing the autonomy of the individual university with regard to the granting of training credits. It is also good the increase to the compensation of the commissioners of the competition for the teachers. Teachers are usually mistreated and any small step is always better than nothing. Someone then remembered the so-called 18 - year - old bonus. As much as it may be seen by some as an electoral move, (I do not want to enter into these discussions) when you put money into circulation for culture is fine regardless of any hidden intentions of the proposers. This is always a good thing. The main point of criticism in this regard is in general research policy which is not and cannot be seen behind this measure. What Senator Cattaneo said in her speech and in her agenda can only be fully shared, and you said so much better than I can do. Firstly, it is clearly not acceptable for resources to be found, in this case for the stabilisation and recognition of an international doctoral experimental school, by reducing the resources available from ordinary funds, because this obviously deprives other bodies of funds which we know very well are already very scarce. At least, if you make a choice of this kind, knowing that the blanket is short, you should do it by being able to discuss it, and not by imposing it. Secondly, as Senator Cattaneo recalled, why did not a general national call for the design of an overall initiative for scientific and technological research to involve all universities and research centres, public, private and whatever else? It is a decision that does not show a great logic at the basis of a coherence of the overall research system. Thirdly, as President Napolitano said, there was no forum for discussion on this matter. Since public resources in a strategic sector such as research are few, they must be subject to greater reflection than that which, while respecting its content, is done within the Ministries. The other problematic aspect concerns contributions to equal schools. Here we know that, compared to Article 33 of the Constitution, there are historically conflicting readings. My reading may be different from that which has been imposed in doctrine and then in majority political practice. Overall, the intention to support pupils with disabilities in equal schools remains positive. In any case, the objective is positive. We know, however, that the ISEE redefinition criterion for families with people with disabilities has given rise to controversy, all the more so because it has not taken into account a recent intervention by the Council of State. The hope is that, however, having to put a new hand, in an overall way, to a reform of the system of deduction and reliefs can be done by taking more account of all the various voices of the interested parties, which can certainly have much to say even from direct experience. So, to conclude, since the overall positive aspects of the matter prevail, although with all the stomachaches deriving from a way of proceeding that certainly is not particularly rewarding for the role of all of us in this House, and because the vote of confidence must be read in the light of the consequences that this could have, it is clear and clear that the sense of responsibility, as well as the substantial sharing of large parts of the measure will lead to a vote in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u70	Mr President, I too am speaking on this draft law, which already contains urgent provisions on the functionality of the school system and research. I would like to speak about what is in this decree-law, but also about what is not there, Mr President. I would also like to do so in the light of confidence in the maxi amendment, which is entirely a replacement, precisely because some issues, which I consider to be fundamental especially in the field of research, have been removed precisely because of the question of trust. There were, for example, amendments which dealt with certain specific issues, and I will come back to them shortly. It is precisely the question of trust that prevents a debate in this House on these issues. So, I'm gonna talk about what's there but also what's not there. I will start with what is there, more specifically from the former article 2 of this decree-law, in relation to the case of the Gran Sasso Science Institute school. Although we are all aware of the scientific quality of the institute, this matter is already bringing to the fore the great problem raised during this morning's debate. It creates, that is, a new university by decree-law, instead of launching big debates and big discussions on what is best to do and it is better to create. Moreover, as has already been pointed out, the funding of this new university, examining the coverage established by the Government, affects the ordinary funding of research institutions. Basically, the cake is always the same and smaller slices are made, eroding the total amount of funding for the research sector. Therefore, we already see some significant problems with regard to this modus operandi. These issues are greatly accentuated by the fact that there were amendments, in particular amendment 2.11, at my first signature, and the agenda presented by Senator Cattaneo (who was the subject of discussion this morning), who basically tried to correct this type of problem and this way of making the most of what is being done in the field of research. This is not a small matter. This morning President Napolitano said that we are talking here about research policy - he used exactly this expression - and that is precisely the issue on the table today in this House on which I want to open a debate. In this country, research policy is undergoing a substantial, great change, which, in my opinion, is going in a direction that is not the correct one. At one time, colleagues, universities and public research bodies proceeded through selective calls for proposals, on whose evaluation process there may also be questions and problems, but in any case it was a selection process through notices that made merit a predominant feature in the allocation of resources. It has been decided that this model no longer works, because universities and public research bodies are public wheelchairs subject to so many constraints, which do not work and whose funding is deemed not to be effective. Basically we want to move on to a new model of research policy, which sees new subjects, private and private law, because the private is seen as synonymous with efficiency, therefore a business model also in research, which ensures a fair distribution and the speed of the realization of the projects. This model is not new, because it was born in the early 2000s, and the Italian Institute of Technology is the result of this model: it is a foundation of private law that escapes all the rules and all the controls of the public administration, within which is placed so much public money that is managed by this foundation of private law without recounting, and is then redistributed to the actuators of research in Italy through conventions and anything else. This is the model chosen by the current Government, which I did with the Human Technopole affair. It was therefore intended to institutionalize once again this way of proceeding top-down, among other things using a foundation that has already received so much funding with public money, and that - I remember - was born with the aim of detaching itself from public funding. Originally, in fact, the founding law provided for ten-year funding until 2014, but it was extended. Today we are in a situation in which only 1% of that institution's budget (a budget not even public, so to obtain this data some investigations have been made) comes from private companies; the rest is all public funding, which, among other things, has accumulated in the coffers of the Italian Institute of Technology. At the end of 2014, as reported by an inquiry of...The daily fact was published on 24 April, there were 540 million public money in bank accounts and investments: 415 million as liquid availability of the Institute in fruitless accounts to the Bank of Italy, 15 million in accounts of the Banco di Desio, 22 million in Bank of Sondrio, almost one million in Carige, 44,000 euro in Unicredit, and so on. Mr President, the joke that there are no research funds has now been surpassed by this government, which has shown that there is money for research. The problem is where they end up and how they are used. In the decree-law local authorities we find this financing of 80 million euros that - I remind colleagues - is almost equal to all the financing that the Government has provided in the law of stability 2016 for all universities and public research agencies, with a highly insufficient assumption plan of 1,000 researchers and 500 "Natta Chairs," the sum of which amounted to approximately 95 million euros. Well, we are giving this foundation under private law, which is already full of money, almost the same amount that we have given to all universities and all public research bodies. Therefore, Mr President, when I say that we are moving the focus of research policy in Italy, I say so with knowledge of the facts, because so many resources are being allocated to the university and so many are being given to the Italian Institute of Technology and one tomorrow, if we sink this modus operandi (and here is the rational behind my amendment), this percentage will be set to increase if we do not stop this drift immediately, this way of doing research policy in Italy. In view of these comments, the reply of the rapporteur, Mrs Puglisi, and Mr D'Onghia, did not satisfy me at all. The rapporteur, Mrs Puglisi, in a clearly legitimate way, listed all the research measures approved by this Government, but which are totally insufficient to bring back the levels of funding to those that were only up to six or seven years ago. On the other hand, also with regard to the defence of the Italian Institute of Technology, which in the opinion of the rapporteur would have public partners, it must be said that its board of directors is mainly composed of stars of industry and finance, such as Vittorio Grilli, former Minister of Economics and Finance, former director general of the Treasury, former director of Credit Suisse. Among other things, we remember that in 2008 the Italian Institute of Technology was given 139 million euros from the IRI Foundation, so Vittorio Grilli at that time was also in conflict of interest, as he presided over the Institute and was on the board of directors of that foundation. We then have Fulvio Conti, former Director General of ENEL who, according to journalistic indiscretions, recently entered Prelios, a real estate company controlled by Pirelli, Unicredit and São Paulo. So, basically, I don't see these public partners. It is a board of directors consisting mainly of private entities, which manages public money in a totally obscure way, not reported, with an extremely large stock, among other things. In addition, the Budget Commission - and I am also addressing President Tonini - rejected my amendment 2.10, which I tabled to increase the budget of the Fund for Investment in Scientific and Technological Research (FIRST) by 20 million, taking them from the ordinary fund of the Italian Institute of Technology, arguing that I cannot reduce that fund because I question the operation of that Institute. We then inform the Budget Committee and President Tonini that this institution has 540 million in its own accounts deposited in a fruitless account of the Bank of Italy (and let alone 20 million euro less what they could do to its operation; it would be advisable to remove much more from that fund and not 20 million). The result is that public research is sacrificed and we do not want to touch that foundation to implement a new research policy in Italy, based on the distribution of funds to private subjects, whose scientific excellence is all to be demonstrated. In this reference to the document that Senator Cattaneo deposited a few days ago, in which it is shown that there are also great doubts about scientific excellence about this Institute. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u71	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, it has been the intervention of the President emeritus of the Republic of Naples, who timidly (but of great significance) has complained of yet another confidence and the fact that an agenda of the day was being drawn up (almost like the caroling capitulars ad personam, certainly not democratic instruments of a Western and democratic country like ours) was not accepted by the Government because unfortunately there was yet another confidence. Other speeches were followed, protesting and complaining about this; Senator Casini protested, always mildly, for goodness sake, not to disturb the balance of this House too much. However, the situation remains very serious, because you have put confidence in everything, also on the reforms that would have needed mainly a discussion in these classrooms, a confrontation between parliamentarians, which are, then, really the only direct expression of the people; measures snatched by the government, modified by the government, imposed by the government. Outside this House, all of you, ladies and gentlemen, agree that there has never been such a disproportionate decree in this legislature; but it is not a small aberration of the system: it is the end of a democratic system. It is not the government's fault, but Parliament's fault, because there are no masters if the slaves do not want to. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]] It is not just yet another veiled controversy about the malfunction of this democracy: you have allowed the strains and leash to be put on parliamentary democracy and that today this democracy is led to the scaffold. It's not just about reforms: these are constitutional reforms of government initiative and electoral laws on which you put your trust, ethical issues such as civil unions on which you put your trust. It is not only the arrogance of the government: it is the attempt to finally overcome a parliamentary democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The numbers, in fact, dear gentlemen (although, unfortunately, there is no one left at this late hour), you have them: there are also Verdini and AL-A (there is still D'Anna here to guard). So why not have this Parliament vote? There is something beyond the simple dismantling of a parliamentary democracy. I tell you, I despise you and despise you who has permitted this among you. I believe that history will judge you, if not today, surely tomorrow, and the Italians, even the most distracted and those who believe that the speed of lawmaking and a strong Premier can solve the problems of Italy, will condemn you. Today really this Parliament is worth nothing and it is your fault, the majority and the parliamentarians of this country! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u73	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I shall refer the following to the debate on the draft law in title and the question of trust to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u76	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this speech I would like to express my full solidarity, as the Italia dei Valori Group, with the Chief Prosecutor of Naples, Giovanni Colangelo. It is in fact news of these days, as you know, the revelation of a repentant of the sacred united crown, which has brought to light a plan organized by the camorra to attack the life of the prosecutor. They were also kidnapped, days ago, 550 grams of TNT, which were to serve this purpose, proof of the most disturbing reliability of the revelations of repentance. We are faced with a fact of unprecedented gravity aimed at striking a servant of the State, who in recent years fights, together with his colleagues, to eradicate chamor and combat crime from a territory that lives the hope of a different future. A man who, in addition to courage and a sense of duty, has demonstrated in recent years that he knows how to conduct an effective strategy and who has precise ideas on how to further improve the fight against organised crime both the one who shoots at the Health district (to use his words) and the one who aims at procurement and who infiltrates the institutions. We must not, therefore, lower the level of attention and underestimate these threats. Even today, the most dangerous terrorism in our country is that of the mafias and the corrupt. The best solidarity we can offer to men like Colangelo is to listen to them and provide them with more invasive tools in the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u79	ICHINO (PD). Mr President, I would like to take up something that I heard this afternoon from Mr Malan, who, drawing from a news that appeared yesterday in cubitary characters on Libero, referred to 100,000 bogus jobs that would be produced by the labour reform that we launched last year. "Freedom" refers to the data provided by INPS, which did not speak at all of bogus jobs but, on the contrary, of this fact: out of 1,600,000 permanent contracts for which the companies applied the decontribution, there are 100,000 in which the INPS challenged to the firm the regularity of the use of the decontribution itself. Therefore, jobs do exist and are based on permanent contracts, which actually have been concluded, which produce income and contributory revenue and are in no way classified as bogus jobs. I would like to take this opportunity to note that every day that the good Lord sends journalists to the ground, rightly, they reproach us politicians for the lack of coherence between what we say and what we do and, unfortunately, sometimes even dishonesty. I ask the journalists, and in particular those of "Free" if the duty of honesty does not also impose on them, and if it is not the case that they too practice the truth: when a given person says something he is not told, as happened in this case, by pure fatiosity, the opposite of what the data means and means. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u80	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-624.ana.u81	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 12 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.33.
