ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. I wish everyone a good year and a good start in parliamentary work. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the minutes of the afternoon sitting of 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with her the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the year began with a painful event, since on 7 January, at the age of seventy-nine, Valerio Zanone, former minister, parliamentary and protagonist of the country's public and institutional life, disappeared. Valerio Zanone was born on 22 January 1936 in Turin, where his cultural and political roots are rooted. His political career began in 1955 with the enrollment of the Italian Liberal Party in whose ranks he was first elected to the Piedmont Regional Council in 1970 and then, in 1976, to the Chamber of Deputies where he would remain uninterrupted until the 11th legislature. 1976 was also the year of his rotation in Malagodi in the secretariat of the Italian Liberal Party. The vision of modern liberalism and the willingness to participate actively in a new reforming season guided its strategic choices. He remained secretary until 1985 and, since the eighties, promoted the participation of the liberals in the government of the country through the formula of the pentaparty. He was appointed Minister for the first time in 1985, during the first Craxi Government, when he was appointed Minister without a portfolio of ecology. Under his leadership, the Ministry of the Environment was established, among the first in Europe. He later served as Minister of Industry in the Second Craxi Government and Minister of Defence in the Goria and De Mita Governments. After the resignation of the De Mita Government he returned to parliamentary activity as President of the Defence Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, from which he resigned on November 8, 1990 to assume the office of mayor of Turin, which he will maintain until 1992. From 1994 to 2005 Zanone devoted himself mainly to the work of the Einaudi Foundation, which in the 1960s had contributed to the foundation. For Valerio Zanone, politician for passion and vocation, there was no civil commitment separated from politics, for this reason, during the delicate transition period that followed the end of the first Republic, he dedicated himself to the realization of a new political project that could include his liberal and democratic vocation. Along this path he became a member of the Olive tree and then of the Margaret, in whose ranks he was elected senator in the 15th legislature. During his last term of office, he was able to convey to the work of this branch of Parliament all the experience of his long institutional militancy. Vice President of the Defence Commission and rapporteur of several draft laws on international missions, he was also always the protagonist in the debates on the Union and the future of European integration. At his meeting on 26 February 2008 he took leave of the House and its public political activity. The report of that session is a valuable testimony to the human and cultural importance of Zanone, who, referring precisely to this last parliamentary experience, claimed that he had provided that I never deviated from the liberal tradition, to which I belong, and from the liberal ideas that belong to me. I consider it an honor to have been able, within my capacity, to interpret that tradition and those ideas in the Senate of the Republic. These are words that constitute his political will and it is with these words that today, also on behalf of the House, I wish to pay tribute to his figure, whom I also had the honour of knowing and attending in the last years of his political commitment. In addressing a warm greeting to his family, I invite all colleagues to observe a minute of silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u11	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, on behalf of all the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party, I too would like to extend a greeting of friendship and closeness to Senator Zanone's family. Valerio Zanone was not only an important political leader, secretary of his party, mayor, authoritative parliamentary and minister; he was all this, but he was also a great connoisseur of the problems of Italy and Europe. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u12	Colleagues, please be quiet. We are honoring the memory of one of our colleagues and a relevant figure in the history of our Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u13	Please, Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). Valerio Zanone was all this, but he was also a great connoisseur of the problems of Italy and Europe, an intellectual who put his culture and his liberal vision at the service of his country's politics. He often said: "Politicals consider me an intellectual, and intellectuals consider me a politician." And he was right: he belonged to the rare species of intellectual politicians. Zanone could never have had such a rich and committed life if he had not been first of all a person of strong moral and civil importance, a great Italian, son of that Piedmont - as she recalled, President Lanzillotta - that he had always had in his heart and from which he inherited much of his talents of character and intellect. Piemontese with a strong sense of the State, Piedmontese for the republican secularism, Piedmontese for the intellectual relationship with figures of the authority of Luigi Einaudi, Norberto Bobbio and Luigi Pareyson, whom Valerio considered his master. In my professional and then political life I met Valerio Zanone many times; in the last ten years I have seen him often. I have worked with him side by side, but I have never considered him merely an important parliamentary colleague or just an authoritative party partner. He was first of all a personal friend of mine, as he was a friend of so many Senators of the Democratic Party, an intelligent and sympathetic friend, whom we could address at any time, knowing that we would come from him a frank and loyal opinion, without biases, without oblique words, without mental reservations. Because Valerio Zanone was like this, he was open and thoughtful, directed to appear grumpy and even rude, but in the background always cheerful, ironic, with an English humor as acute as a laser beam. I remember countless political meetings, always illuminated by his arguments and by his fulminating jokes. Valerio Zanone loved to deepen the big issues and the big issues of our time: the state structure, justice, security, foreign policy, industrial policy, defence, the environmental issue. They well illustrate the depth and topicality of his thought the interest and rigour with which he has dealt several times with the theme of peace and war, with very far-sighted reflections, of a man with a long view, capable of anticipating the times and understanding the signs of the future. It was clear to him that our generation, of children of a century who had suffered the very high price of two world wars, had a duty to build peace. But he also knew that building peace is not an easy task. He understood that for us Europeans the most serious and most substantial contribution to peace could only come from a high and enlightened vision of the construction of Europe. Zanone was a man refractory to utopias and consequently never joined the many forms of declamatory pacifism that Italy also knew. Hence his conviction that peace must necessarily go from the growth of Europe, from the processes of economic and social cooperation, from the creation of a European defence community, from the reduction of the instruments of war and from a genuine policy of disarmament, to the achievement of the highest objective, the political unity of Europe. The layman, the irreducible lay Zanone had a great consideration for the content and values of the encyclical Pacem in Terris by John XXIII and the Gaudium et Spes and Populorum Progressio by Paul VI. There was no contradiction in the secular Valerio's attention to the thought of those two great popes; indeed, there was proof that his secularity was authentic, not a dozenly and rhetorical attitude. Zanone was aware that in our time the proliferation of nuclear weapons forces the nations to address the issue of war with completely new attitudes compared to the past, not only by making effective the prohibition of proliferation, but also through the control of arms trafficking, the ban on anti-personnel mines, the prohibition of biological weapons. At times like ours, in which the ferocity of international terrorism seems to have no limits (I am also thinking of this morning's massacre in Istanbul) and in which new experiments of nuclear weapons are repeated in far-off North Korea, Zanone's teaching has yet to direct politics towards peace and security. In one of his writings, Valerio Zanone indicated September 11, 2001 as the beginning of the Fourth World War. Fourth after the First and Second and after the Cold War, which was still a war. Once again, Zanone had seen right. We record every day the signs of a bloody violence that, unfortunately, is marking the beginning of our third millennium with blood. After all, speaking of the fourth world war, Zanone anticipated the most explicit words of Pope Francis about the new world war in pieces. It is in this picture that Valerio Zanone recalled how to prevent war the most effective method that has ever been tested is called democracy; and in fact, he wrote, in contemporary history there are no cases of war between two liberal states. Valerio Zanone knew all the weak points of the thesis of those who wanted to export democracy with weapons. But he also knew that "vi" is a de facto connection between the lack of freedom and the danger of war." I'm done, Madam President. One last consideration on the coherence that has always guided Valerio Zanone's political choices. Valerio was a liberal, he lived as a liberal, he wrote as a liberal and he remained liberal all his life. In none of his political interventions, in any public intervention, in any of the texts of his writings, Zanone has ever supported opinions other than culture and the liberal spirit. In the last years of his parliamentary activity, Zanone has found in the center-left Italian a coherence with his ideas. For Valerio this step was not easy, and he often talked about it. It has always seemed to me a natural decision, in the face of the failure of that liberal revolution that had been so strongly promised and so obviously not achieved. Valerio has always chosen to hold firm his great principles, which were nothing more than the founding principles of all democracies: the separation of powers, the rule of law and free competition. He has always tried to be on a political side where he could rediscover these values. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u16	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia wishes to join in the mourning for the disappearance of Valerio Zanone and remember his figure. First of all, man and man politicians. There is no day in which the institutions and the people involved do not lose consensus and credibility and who, through the mistakes of the people, do not question the institutions themselves. It is a very dangerous thing and we must express gratitude, remembrance and emotional appreciation to those who have dedicated their lives to politics, political ideas, work for politics, sacrifice for the institutions. Certainly this is the case with Valerio Zanone. On the political level there is no doubt that Zanone was a great and coherent liberal and that the most important part of his activity is that of the 1976-1985 period in which he was secretary of the Italian Liberal Party. In our country the Italian Liberal Party and liberalism have had a great importance, starting from the birth of Italy and then after the war. Well, in the sixties of the last century liberalism had lost a bit of enamel because it had decided to oppose without if and without but the evolution of the center-left in our country, which had taken note of a socio-economic reality that was changing. Zanone's inspiration was to try to advance liberal ideas by adapting them to the situation in the country. For this reason, he favored dialogue with the Italian Socialist Party and with the Radical Party, that is, with those secular forces that, without any form of exasperated but coherent secularism, sought to carry forward, on the one hand, civil rights and, on the other, the need for society to develop according to democratic principles, but taking into account and respecting those who remain behind and who must be helped and taken into account. I think we must be grateful for what Zanone has done for his party, his ideas and our country and that we must try to grasp from him a teaching: first, consistency of behavior; second, uprightness of behavior; third, always respect for the ideas and positions of political opponents. These are the criteria that Valerio Zanone has inspired in his personal and political action. These are teachings that, if respected by all, even with the freedom to express different opinions, can only bring benefits to our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u19	Mr Albertini (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I must confess to you that when I speak here I feel somewhat embarrassed, not so much because of the obvious disproportion between the brief words I will say and the importance of the character to whom I am referring, for nothing that I can add - let alone take away - to the testimony of his life, but - above all - because, having known him personally, I think he himself would not have wanted too solemn commendation for what he has done. He was in fact a shy man who would have wanted to be remembered for what he did rather than for what he would have been said about him, so far from the futile chronicle because he thought to leave, as he did in fact, a trace in the history of our country. This track definitely left it: I say it with the pride of being his elector, for a short time also a friend of his and certainly an admirer of his. At a time when appearance seems to prevail over substance and it is difficult for us, who have institutional responsibilities, for us who live in the confidence of citizens, to make believe in the goodness of our thoughts and actions, well, Valerio Zanone was able to instill this trust in every trace and in every place where he played an important role. As head of his party, as Minister, as mayor, he was able to affirm his inner dignity, his ability to be above all himself and to believe in his values. It comes to mind - it seems very bizarre this comparison, but that's what I thought instinctively - the epitaph that Stendhal, the famous French writer, who was actually called Arrigo Beyle, wanted to be written on his grave: "Arrigo Beyle, Milanese, wrote, loved, lived." In a dark grave of the cemetery of Montmartre, this great writer wanted to be consecrated - it is said - to history with these brief words. Valerio Zanone wanted to be remembered democratic, secular, pro-European, social, but for his tombstone at the monumental cemetery of Turin, with that 'understatement that unites him to Stendhal - and we will see for what other thing - he chose a single word: "liberale". Well, Stendhal syndrome could be for him, Valerio Zanone, and for us, liberal syndrome. A man who loved freedom in all its forms, who lived it as an ideal and practiced it as a practice, and, having held roles of responsibility in our institutions, tried to extend it, amplify it, strengthen it, make it live for all of us. I think that more than our words is worth the definition: Valerio Zanone is liberal. We are honored to belong to the human species when there are personalities like him who give us this example, and, as senators of the Republic - because he was, like us, sitting here - we are honored to share his memory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u22	D'ANNA (AL-A). Madam President, I agree with Senator Albertini that we will be able to add little to the size and greatness of the thought of a great intellectual, as I like to call Valerio Zanone. I confess to those present who, together with Luigi Einaudi - Zanone, with a beautiful book, published by Rizzoli, Einaudi, with his useless lectures, marked my way of thinking about politics and political action in a decisive way. I too, as a young man, have been the victim of the distortions of certain concepts, such as solidarity, social justice, the conception of the State as the master of individuals, because the ethical superiority of the end of the State could also allow the abolition of the rights to which individuals bear. Well, I owe to Valerio Zanone and this beautiful book, "The Liberal Age," the palinogenesis of my way of thinking. I didn't have the pleasure of knowing him or attending him, but I met him once, myself a Member of Parliament and he a former Member of Parliament, in the corridors of the Chamber of Deputies, and I wanted to give him a sign of my gratitude, and he, in thanking me and giving me his business card, gave me a great lesson in style because, for reliability, modesty and availability, he seemed any man, while he was the man to whom I owed my cultural metamorphosis. I believe that these testimonies of lived life are worth more than many reasonings and celebrations, because the Greeks loved to say that man did not die until he lives in the minds of his fellowmen and for me Valerio Zanone did not die, he passed through. He is no longer among men but not for this, certainly, he is no longer in our minds and, with a pinch of emotion, also in my heart. I would like to remind you that Zanone condensed what he believed to be liberalism in a beautiful decalogue, a decalogue of freedom, and I believe that among the ten definitions contained in it the most beautiful, the one that fits in with the times is the following: To the Marxists who promise freedom after sociality, to the conservatives who promise sociality after freedom, liberals must answer that freedom and sociality are gained and lost together. This way of conceiving liberalism, which cost him then the license of left-wing liberal - which is an oxymoron - gave the sense of a man who was conscious of the supremacy of the individual in the State. Zanone, who often quoted Isaiah Berlin, was aware that each of us is the bearer of rights and freedoms that are unavailable to any authority, to any collective entity, but at the same time dissentible lovingly, as he said in some interviews, from the vision of what he called the agricultural liberalism of Luigi Einaudi. In fact, he said that if it is true that liberalism is equal opportunities and socialism is equality of outcomes, society is not always placed in a position to guarantee equality of opportunities and therefore we must be attentive to sociality, to the set of rules that the State manages, to the laws that regulate the thousand articulations that distinguish an open society and we must fight for equality of opportunities to arise also from the struggle for the conquest of rights and through the movement of solidarity. I conclude by saying that if it is true that liberalism, in the extreme essence, is to oppose the angeries of the constituted power and to oppose democracy and freedom of expression to the dogmas and impositions of the State or any other collective institution, Zanone is with us: it is in the pages of his books and, if I may, in the modest testimony of those who speak to you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u24	In giving the floor to Senator Comrade, I would ask colleagues to interrupt this buzz, which prevents speakers from speaking and, to whomever they wish, listening. The multiplier of so many buzzes makes this House incapable of doing what it is called upon to do. Please, Senator Comrade, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group's senators also bow to the memory of Valerio Zanone. Valerio Zanone appeared in this House with great prestige and there was only for a short time. This was very well remembered by the President's initial words, who also mentioned the budget he could draw from this experience, which was from 2006 to 2008. Valerio had turned, in search of liberalism, towards the ranks of the center-left. He had been elected with such a lineup. In some ways, that short term legislature was a source of disappointment to him, even though it took part in the work of the House and the Commissions with great rigour, especially in the Defence Commission. Mr Zanda was right to recall that: a former Minister of Defence who goes to the Defence Committee after many years is a manifestation of great style and great affection in Parliament. However, the political affair seemed ungrateful to him: for a few days the possibility of becoming President of the Defence Commission had been open to him, but Senator De Gregorio had been preferred to him. After that legislature it was as if Valerio, beating himself up in his Einaudi Foundation and in his books, had recounted himself in the readings of his youth. To me he evoked the young friend, almost an older brother, whom I had met in Turin in the mid-sixties. With Renato Altissimo he formed an indivisible couple. They were very different, but united by a subtle feeling. It was a world of which other young liberals were part. I think of Giuliano Urbani, Giovanna Zincone and Piero Ostellino. The Tandem Altissimo-Zanone became for me a reference of great intellectual friendship, as has been said, and not so much political because they looked with interest at Lamalfism, but I, who was Republican, did not get convinced by the fascinating reasons why they would never abandon the party of John Malagodi. To the party of Ugo La Malfa reproached - and, consequently, to me - not questions of right or left, of programming and not even questions of monarchy or Republic, but of having betrayed the list of Benedict Cross for the Constituent, which had a header made specifically for the young La Malfa, that of John Amendola. Malfa had preferred the solitude of a reserved election campaign in order not to give life to the liberal design of Benedict Croce party leader and not President of the Republic, as Pietro Nenni and Ugo La Malfa would have wanted. Here, since then, between Valerio Zanone and Renato Altissimo that sunny confidence and harmony was perhaps lost. To their honour, however, is the fact that even when they had been one president and the other secretary in via Frattina, their relationship was never considered by anyone a magic circle. It was a high, noble, true and serious relationship. Much has been said about Valerio's civil personality. Valerio was certainly a Piedmontese liberal, liberal democratic by Jolittian vocation, even if in him there was some vibration of moralism. I'm not talking about Salvemini's moralism and anti-Jelicism, if anything Gobetti's. Besides, whatever the political vocation of the twenty-year-olds, Gobetti exercises a charm at least as an intellectual potential and publisher, as Valerio always thought. Then Valerio had fallen in love with the philosopher of Via Sacchi, Norberto Bobbio, especially Norberto Bobbio, beaten by the cynicism of Rodrigo di Castile on the pages of "Rinascita" in the 1950s, to which Bobbio replied with "Politics and culture." Perhaps this relationship with Bobbio had prevented him from fully appreciating what the Craxi secretariat meant, for a Joelian liberal who would return to the government, as he never succeeded in Turati in the Jelictian age. The figure of Valerio Zanone is complex and articulated, however very high. At the moment, anyone who has attended him or even just touched him has a duty to thank him, not so much for what he has done - I am addressing my colleague Mr Albertini - but for what he has been, for what he has meant and for how he has interpreted, at different times, the honour of being remembered, at the last moment, as a mere liberal. Goodbye, Valerio! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u28	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am honored to interpret the thoughts of the entire League Group in the commemoration of Valerio Zanone. The fifty years of politics of Valerio Zanone crossed the history of Italy, during the first and second Republics. He was Regional Councillor of Piedmont from 1970, Secretary of the Italian Liberal Party from 1976 to 1985, after Giovanni Malagodi, in the years of the fight against terrorism, of the liberal alliance with the socialists of Bettino Craxi and in the referendum against the abolition of the escalator. In fact, since the Liberal Party had a sharp fall in the 1976 general elections, the leader of the party passed to the left-wing movement, in favour of cooperation with the socialists and, in general, to dialogue with the left-wing formations. Zanone served several times between 1985 and 1989 in the Governments chaired by Craxi, De Mita and Goria. He was Minister of Ecology and the following year he signed the founding law of the Ministry of the Environment, one of the first in Europe. Having passed to the Ministry of Industry in 1986, he organized the National Energy Conference on the issue of nuclear power. Since 1987 he has been Minister of Defence for two years, addressing, among other things, the first Italian military mission in the Persian Gulf. In 1990 he was elected mayor of Turin, a position he left after two years to return to Parliament. Zanone was in fact a Member from 1976 to 1994. After twelve years out of parliamentary commitment, but not from politics, he was then elected Senator of the Margaret, until 2008. He was a liberal in blood and soul, as only a hard and pure Turinese as he would have known to be. With such a calm and mild personality, there was an incredible desire to do and an extraordinary dynamism, which put punctually in all the political activities that were entrusted to him. He was liberal of the Piedmontese tradition, always linked to Cavour and Einaudi, and dedicated his commitment to the liberal ideal, trying to promote it also in the cultural, as well as political. He loved to be remembered as liberal, democratic, secular, pro-European and social. He was also a person too well and too sensitive to risk politically being put in the corner by too many unscrupulous subjects. The one who left is a gentleman, a survivor of a species that seems to be lost. Several times he has been remembered, in these days, as an intelligent and modern guardian of the great Italian liberal tradition. In all the numerous positions he has always carried his high sense of the State, his uprightness, his farsightedness and his peculiar personal trait, marked by grace and humanity. It is also worth remembering that he managed to stay out of all investigations carried out during the Clean Hands investigation. On behalf of the Group, believing that I interpret the thought of everyone, I ask that the memory and mourning of the Lega Nord Group reach him and his loved ones. I would add that in 1992 he admitted his inscription to Freemasonry, one of the few politicians to have done so, faithful to his ideals until the end, so much so as to ask to be remembered on the tombstone of the monumental cemetery of Turin with one word: liberal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u31	IN MAY (CoR). Madam President, the reasons for life are a little strange. Never would I have thought or imagined that one day I would have to stand on the benches of the Senate to commemorate the memory of Valerio Zanone, perhaps the most liberal of the liberals I had the chance to know. I'll remember how he might have liked it. Valerio Zanone is, even before the protagonist of the political and institutional life of the end of the century of our country, an intellectual end and a very fine thinker and is undoubtedly and above all a Turinese. He loved his city above all things and imagined to bring to Rome, and therefore to Italy, the cultural figure that his city represented for history, for customs and for culture. Einaudiano and gobettiano convinced, had set his political action in an attempt to bring together freedom and equality, always the greatest discriminating between liberalism and socialism: he was in fact the noble father of the political season of lib-lab. His uprightness, his honesty, his political passion were marked by thought and not by the commodity of ideas. I, a young Milanese provincial secretary of the Italian Liberal Party, often met him in the corridors of via Frattina; I militated in the Milanese Sterpian current and often at the congresses he stood as opponents, but it was not the different liberal angles that divided us. He treated me, rightly, as a tapin of politics, but he had great consideration and he could not bear above all the conception I had of Cavour, which he considered aberrant if not even blasphemous. He was a scholar and a deep connoisseur of Cavour's political history and life, I think he had even written a lot about the same (here is the history of Turin and Piedmont that returns) and he found it unbearable that I thought of Cavour, not as the creator of the Unity of Italy, but as a raider and predator of the South of Italy, so useful to heal the budgets of the so much skilful Sabaudian Kingdom or Sardinia, that one would say. A point of view, mine, that he from Turin caurian found unbearable. Aside from that, during his speeches at the national congresses, I felt a strong admiration for him. He had a unique oratory ability, his speeches had a compelling rationality, yet, more than the mind hit you in the heart. I once told him: "You're far ahead," he said to me with his beautiful irony: That's why you sterplanes are always behind you then. Another memory binds me to him and is that of when I wrote my long farewell letter to the Italian Liberal Party in 1992. I wrote a letter to the national leadership, to the Highest Secretary in whom, making the decision, I told the president and the party secretary that at such a difficult time, if I had to choose to be among the guards and thieves, I had no doubt which side I was on, and that was why I was abandoning the party. No one answered me; I received a single long letter from Valerio Zanone, who repeated to me all the good reasons for not abandoning the party. It is regrettable that a politician like Valerio Zanone is remembered today by the national press as the one who prevented the Einaudi Foundation, of which he has long been president, from falling into the hands of Berlusconi, but this is the figure of Italian journalism in therenzian era. By the way, Valerio Zanone also sat on these benches and did so in what was then the Olive tree, then in the rows of the center-left. He was an all-round liberal, as I said, capable of even extreme choices, guided by a robust intellectual honesty, one who always wanted to understand the reasons of others to confirm their own or to change them, a mentality and a costume that today are rare goods. For these reasons Zanone could never have been military in the Party of the Nation and it is with this certainty that I address, on behalf of myself and of my Group, the last and enthusiastic "Ciao Valerio" (Ciao Valerio). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u32	This concludes the commemoration of Senator Valerio Zanone. The Senate renews mourning and participation to the family.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u33	We greet and welcome the students of the scientific high school "Giuseppe De Lorenzo" in Latronico, in the province of Potenza, who are attending our works today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u34	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1678-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The speakers, Senators Esposito Stefano and Pagnoncelli, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Esposito Stefano.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u35	Madam President, the draft law, which goes back to the Senate after the work that this House had done in a fruitful way last year, transposing the three directives amending the European Union's rules on public procurement and concessions, has undergone some changes to the House of Members, in some cases partial and in others with significant additions to the text that came out of the Senate. I think it is useful for this House and for my colleagues to try to explain the amendments in detail, pointing out the most important ones compared to the text that has been fired in this House. Among the main guiding criteria that govern the exercise of the delegation is the letter b), which has been partially modified by the Chamber and now provides that the new code of public contracts and concession contracts containing provisions contained in the three European directives, and intended to replace the code of the existing public contracts (legislative decree no. 163 of 2006), is adopted by the decree of reorder instead of by the only legislative decree provided by the text approved by the Senate. In the context of the principle of ensuring effective coordination and smooth transition between the future and the new Directive, an explicit reference has also been made to coordination with environmental, landscape, cultural and transparency and anti-corruption provisions. Let us bear in mind that the Senate had concentrated a great deal on the discipline of cultural goods and we know how important it is for the public procurement system, with the profitable work and resources made available by this Government for the cultural and artistic heritage sector, having a regulation that presides over the interventions on the national artistic heritage. The House then inserted a new letter (c) requiring measures in the procurement procedure to ensure the accessibility of people with disabilities, including something on which this House had failed to intervene in a fruitful way. In letter (d) with respect to the text dismissed from the Senate the reservation of a specific legislation for cafeteria replacement services is now conditional on compliance with the capacity requirements required of competitors, already provided for in letter (r) of the text dismissed by the Senate. Paragraph (g) inserted in the Chamber provides for ad hoc disciplines for public employment contracts, services and supplies of less than the thresholds of Community importance and for contracts executed in the economy, based on criteria of maximum simplification and speed, safeguarding the principles of transparency and impartiality of the tender, while the new paragraph (h) regulates the assignments of contracts in the special sectors. Point (i) on simplification, harmonisation and progressive digitisation of custody procedures and point (l) which provides for an ad hoc framework for contracts related to civil protection emergencies and prohibits derogations from ordinary procedures, except for individual cases related to emergencies, remain substantially unchanged. It is important to highlight, in the letter m) introduced to the Chamber, a specific discipline for contracts secreted or requiring particular security measures, providing prior and not only subsequent control of the Court of Auditors. This issue is particularly important because the Chamber's work intervenes in an overall manner on contracts concluded under emergency arrangements or entrusted to the Ministry of Defence. It should also be noted that point n), which was also inserted at second reading, provides for the identification of contracts excluded from the scope of the European Directives. This is also a useful complement. In the Senate, at first reading, we had totally committed ourselves to what was provided for in European legislation. It was considered in the House to make a detailed clarification that we had decided to postpone the contents of the directive to the Senate. Point (p) complements the forecast, already included at first reading, of measures to ensure compliance with the criteria of energy and environmental sustainability in the assignments with the award criterion based on the costs of the life cycle and with rewards scores for goods, works and services with reduced impact on health and the environment. Point (q) has been supplemented by rules providing for sanctions in the event of non-compliance or late termination of requests for extortion and corruption in the field of public procurement, as well as full accessibility, visibility and transparency of design acts. This point complements, by supplementing, the work done in the Senate. In this connection, I would like to recall the amendment tabled by Senator Lumia, who had been accepted precisely in order to ensure support for companies that had turned to the State in the event of extortion. Point (r) extends and clarifies the definition of the requirements for economic, technical (including organisational) and professional capacity required for participation in tenders. Point (s) on the advertising of notices and notices of invitation to tender now provides only computer-based instruments, where the rule approved by the Senate also provided for publication in newspapers. You know that this has been a very debated subject. We had also left the possibility of advertising notices on the paper media. It was considered in the Chamber to remove this prediction, referring exclusively to an online advertising. I would like to say that, on this subject, I do not think that the necessary transition period between legislation and legislation has been taken into account, but these are the choices made and we know that there has been a broad debate and a broad debate on this subject. The letter (cc) extends the principles of revision and efficiency of the procurement procedures to be used by CONSIP SpA with a reference to the purchasing networks and to the participation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. This letter, in my opinion very relevant, has completed a work that we had sketched out in the Senate's text concerning the tenders of the largest Italian contracting station that is CONSIP. As regards letter dd, the obligation of contracting stations to publish the financial report on their website at the end of the contract was inserted in the passage to the other branch of Parliament. The obligation of the municipalities not the capital of Province in the matter of aggregation or centralization of the clients, which must now be implemented at Union level of Municipalities, where existing, or through other aggregate subject according to the current legislation, and no longer at subprovincial level as in the previous text, has been modified. It is also without prejudice to the need to divide into lots, in compliance with EU legislation. For the Members concerned, I think it would be useful to stress that this aspect, the letter dd), is one of the focal points of the work done here in the Senate and that I think it oversees a truly innovative procurement code. We, here in the Senate, had worked, after a broad discussion, on a drastic reduction of the contracting stations. My colleagues will recall that we had identified, in one of the most recent votes before the final vote, a mediation agreed between virtually all the groups. (Minister Delrio converses with Senator Davico.) I apologize, not because I am offended, but because I think it would be useful for Mr Delrio to listen to this point in my speech. I will allow Senator Davico to start again immediately, but this point on the contracting stations I think is very relevant. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It would be helpful if he didn't start again. EXPOSED by Stefano, rapporteur. We had worked on a drastic reduction solution. I understand the reasons why the House has worked on a different mediation; the issue of the union of municipalities was also covered in our discussion. I believe that the choice made in the House is making too much increase, Minister, in the number of contracting stations. We know that the procurement code is based on a mechanism for reducing and qualifying contracting stations and on a synchronized work between the Ministry and ANAC, so that companies are also qualified and can participate only in contracts for which they really have the requirements. It is clear that this work is possible and more productive insofar as the contracting stations are in limited numbers. This choice of the House - which, of course, I respect, but I think it is right to leave the perplexity of the rapporteur, the co-rapporteur, and I would say the Commission as a whole, on the record - is likely to widen too much. Therefore, in drafting the decree, I invite the Government to take this aspect into account. I simply say this because, in my opinion, this point is the cornerstone of a public procurement system that can really guarantee the efficiency and effectiveness that we are going to establish through this code. Point (ee) introduces penalties for contracting stations which fail or delay in communicating to the DAC the changes in operation for contracts of an amount equal to or greater than the Community threshold. This is a significant improvement in the text of the Senate because, after the variants have been reduced in their possibility to be used, this rule inserts an element of further restriction, positive and useful to ensure public works that have certain times and above all costs. In point (ff) on the award criteria for public contracts and concession contracts, the definition of the most economically advantageous tender criterion has been added to the text approved at first reading. The methods of identifying and evaluating abnormal offers have also been specified. Point (gg) has been amended by including, among the public contracts to be awarded exclusively on the basis of the most economically advantageous offer criterion, in addition to those relating to hospital, welfare and school catering services, also those relating to labour-intensive services, i.e. those in which the cost of labour is at least 50% of the total amount of the contract. In fact, we had already included this rule, but it was considered in the House to extend it further. Evidently in the House there was a different reading of the approach to a delegation law. However, it is positive that one of the cornerstones of this code is maintained: to close the dramatic experience, for this country, of the service contracts entrusted with the maximum decrease, which had and unfortunately still has as its sole effect - pending the enactment of the decrees - that of downloading the maximum decrease on the skin and above all on the hourly pay of those who work. Point (hh) on the establishment of a compulsory national register of the members of the public procurement commissions and concession contracts in the DAC now provides that account should also be taken of the previous professional activities of the components and possible conflicts of interest. It is a positive integration, which will certainly make it even easier on the part of the Government to write the actual text of the code, on a ground and on a point that ensure that the most economically advantageous bidding system can truly guarantee transparency and impartiality in the award of the contract. With regard to point (ii), the House of Deputies has introduced the provision that, for public contracts and concession contracts below the threshold of Community importance, in order to ensure comparative evaluation among several offers, at least five economic operators, where existing, should be invited to tender. This is also a significant improvement, which is in the direction of opening up the market, as required by the European directives, and above all of ensuring transparency and rotation of those invited. Point (l) extends the field of verification and control of the contracting station by providing for appropriate penalties for failure or insufficient supervision. It also highlights the new letter nn), introduced in the Chamber of Deputies, which puts the revision of the discipline of entrusting the assignments of testing to employees of the public administration in service or in quiescence. There was much discussion in the Senate on this point, but we had not spoken. I believe that a fair, correct choice has been made, which opens up the market to many professionals, including young people, in this case too, avoiding that the testing contracts always have a defined or predefined supply chain. Compared to the text approved by the Senate, the letter oo extends the possibility of recourse to the integrated contract for works contracts and concessions (as a rule, without prejudice to the tendering of the executive project) and excludes the assignment of the works on the basis of the preliminary design alone. This letter significantly changes the structure of the legislation that we had approved in the Senate: the integrated contract is restored, which we had essentially limited to works with a technological innovation value of more than 70%. I welcome the maintenance of the competition with the executive project; I express some doubts about the reintegration of this mechanism of entrusting the works, but of course with the hope that the standard so constructed can be more manageable than the current one. The letter pp), inserted in the Chamber of Deputies, with reference to public invitations to tender for the purchase of goods, requires the provision of technical specifications that guarantee equal access and the full implementation of the principle of competition. The letter rr) has been supplemented with the forecast to allocate a sum not exceeding 2% of the amount put on the basis of the tender for the technical activities of programming, preparation and control of contracts carried out by civil servants, excluding the application of incentives to design. This is also an extremely positive fact; it is a topic we have been discussing for many years, of which we discussed also during the first reading in the Senate and which in the House were better at solving, with a choice that can only bear positive results. The new letter vv), which contains detailed principles and guiding criteria for the introduction of a discipline of the procedure for the revocation and suspension of the attestations in the event of bankruptcy procedures and prior agreement (with company continuity and with reservation). This point also improves a paragraph that we had already inserted. In general, at the Senate we were more dry in the writing of the delegation law; in the House the meshes were wider. I believe that, however, synergistic work has substantially improved in most cases. Points (aa) and (bbb) lay down guiding principles and criteria to facilitate the settlement of disputes concerning the performance of procurement contracts, regulating the use of arbitration procedures and providing for simplified forms for the adoption of precautionary measures and for the conduct of the abbreviated rite by the administrative court. Of course, it will be up to the government to make the final choice when writing the code. I think - and I believe that there is full convergence with the Government - that reducing arbitration to a minimum is a ground on which there is no conflict between Parliament and the Government from this point of view. Other amendments to the text approved by the Senate were made to the letter (cc), which introduces the obligation to justify the failure to divide a contract into lots. This is very important: the European directives require contracts to be divided into lots. The House of Deputies has been given even more detailed work to ensure that this rule is respected. I would point out point (ee) in relation to direct in-house trusts between public sector entities, which imposes the obligation to publish all custody-related acts, always ensuring the assessment of the economic appropriateness of the offers made with regard to the subject matter and the value of the service. Again, this is a rule that had already been included in the Senate and that has been strengthened to ensure that the trusts in house really have a reasonable economic value and really agree to the public administration with respect to the market. The provision in point (hhhh) on concessions has been amended by including the reference to compliance with the repealing referendum of 12 and 13 June 2011 for concessions in the water sector and concessions for industrial supplies in self-consumption of electricity from renewable sources. This element was already present in the reading of the directives and, even out of respect for the popular vote, it was considered to be precise. The provision referred to in point (iii) concerns the matter of public works and services concessions. You know that this issue has taken away a lot of time and energy and that the Senate had made a clear choice with respect to the dealers and the custody by the same of the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance work on the granted networks. The text approved by the Senate provided 100 percent of custody... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Esposito, I invite you to synthesize and conclude. EXPOSED by Stefano, rapporteur. Madam President, I am the only one who is speaking because the other rapporteur, Senator Pagnoncelli, is not present and so I will also take advantage of some of his time. Unfortunately, Senator Pagnoncelli had a minor injury. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We know. EXPOSED by Stefano, rapporteur. I apologize because I should have remembered it at first. We had chosen the 100 percent way of relying on jobs through race. The Chamber of Deputies had reached a point of mediation, providing for the obligation to entrust the 80% share of the works through competition and entrusting the remaining 20% share to companies in house directly constituted by the dealers. I think he did a good job anyway. Madam President, I would like to conclude by referring to what I think is the real novelty in the text. I want to do justice to the courageous choice and to the work done by the Chamber of Deputies: I am referring to the introduction of the letter sss), which establishes the express overcoming of the provisions of Law No 443 of 21 December 2001, so-called objective law. You will recall that in this Assembly a number of amendments have been tabled, in particular carried out by the 5 Star Movement and the Left Ecology and Freedom component of the Mixed Group to overcome the objective law. In the Senate we had not managed to find a fair balance, which was achieved in the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that overcoming the objective law, with effect from the date of entry into force of the decree of reorganization, is a positive and innovative fact, which can only benefit the system of contracts for the realization of public works. I would like to point out that this is not a matter of overcoming without consequences, since the House has been expected to update all acts of planning of infrastructure works and the application of environmental assessments (VAS and EIA). In addition, a detailed report on the state of progress of planned works was included in the Economic and Finance Document, as well as the adoption of coordination and transitional rules for actions for which binding legal obligations exist and the definition of the functions and organisation of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. I think I have explained the main changes and additions made to the text to the House of Deputies. I think I can say that the measure that we are going to discuss will radically change the procurement system in this country. I do not intend to repeat the key points, which have remained substantially unchanged, despite - perhaps - a lack of attention because there was no controversy. In fact, we worked in both the House and the Senate in a balanced way. There has perhaps been little attention, but I believe that this will be, at the time of approval, one of the main reforms of recent years, that will guarantee both businesses and of course citizens - who are then the end users of the realization of public works - a different system, with a great collaboration between the different institutions (Ministry, ANAC, Parliament and competent parliamentary committees), in the hope of finally bringing this country to the levels of other European countries in terms of certain costs and certain times in the realization of public works. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u36	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u37	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are examining is certainly progressing with respect to the current framework: it introduces greater guarantee measures; I have concerns about certain points, but it certainly creates a better situation overall than the previous one, also thanks to the work done in the Senate and, unfortunately, in part, to the House in some respects. However, it certainly represents progress, because procurement is an extremely important issue. Procurement must be managed in a transparent way, because it guarantees competition; it is the privileged place, in some cases, of what is the opposite of competition, namely corruption: pilot contracts, contracts disturbed by various manoeuvres, and therefore it is important to introduce rules that protect against these degenerations. You yourself, Minister Delrio, on 11 November in the House, answering a question, said that the general policy is that concessions - referring to motorways, probably the most important contracts, those whose individual acts are among the most extensive from the point of view of both the impact on our infrastructure, and the impact of costs, and consequently of the costs on citizens who pay through motorway tolls - are entrusted by tender, and therefore through the free market to make spending more efficient, because of our interest in increasing investment and the efficiency of services, in ensuring safety on motorways and so on. Well, these noble intentions are achieved, precisely, as you said, Minister, if the races take place, and if they are done with optimal standards such as those we are about to approve, which undoubtedly improve the procurement situation (there would be some comments to be made, but I do not want to dwell on this). Then, however, precisely in the area of motorway concessions that you spoke about in the House, I wonder if we are not in a stage of mockery, because you have listed the beautiful consequences produced by contracts (competition, benefit for citizens, benefit for the State, free market, so - I add - companies are stimulated to work well, no one thinks they are guaranteed for life) but what is the reality, Minister and colleagues? The reality is that the first motorway of Italy, that of Brenner, which involves 335 million revenues per year, 152 million margin, on which perhaps a competition could be exercised in a positive way through more resources possibly, if the State decides to do so, through concession contests that include new jobs or reduced tariffs, that are very high and that affect the freedom of movement of citizens and the competitiveness of our companies; well - I said - the Brenner highway would be the first to apply those principles that you, Minister, said to be good; and instead what does it do, Minister? He has already announced that Friday, probably the day after this measure, of which he boasts, will be approved in the Senate, he will completely ignore it and sign an agreement to grant this highway for thirty years. At that time the young President-in-Office of the Council will be old, and probably very rich, I would add. A concession for thirty years, with receipts for 10 billion and profits for 5 billion only on this highway, with the law not yet in force. And it will also do so for another highway that is in sixth place in the ranking, also in that case for another thirty years with 180 million revenues and 86 million profits. Why? Because there will be two participants. Yet that same Friday announced a measure to give a grip to the participants. Enough of this waste! But on the same day, Minister, you will give two participating profits for billions. And where did this money come from? From tolls that pay every day citizens, workers and Italian businesses and tourists, who are also discouraged to come to our country. This is true of the country's first motorway, with the concession already expired two years ago. Rightly the Berlusconi government - but look at that! - in 2011 started the race that then, with a series of games, was suspended. And his Government, which has been in office for two years now, has done nothing to restore the race, in fact, now no longer carries out a race, entrusts the management in house to a participant, those participated against whom it has been announced, moreover for years without ever reaching anything, a crusade to reduce waste. Well, two colossals are created on the same day. The second motorway in Italy is Brescia-Padova, which was renewed in 2007 until 2026 provided that it presented the project for the completion of a section of the Valdastico Nord. What's going on? That in 2013 this term - and I have been waiting for months to answer questions about this and other motorway issues - comes from a mysterious hand whose name we still do not know, extended by two years, so for two years the company continues to manage the huge profits brought by this highway, with a record increase in tariffs, which on Brescia-Padova has been twice the inflation over the last nine years. It seems it was the Monti Government at the end of its mandate, indeed, probably after the previous elections, when it was still in office: a mysterious hand extended, probably for a year and a half, and, since there is total lack of transparency (other than procurement!), we don't even know who did it. I have tabled a question and I have not been given this information either. Then someone, but at this point the government is the current one and probably the minister was you, granted an extension, if I understand correctly, until the end of 2016. Thanks to this three-year extension, the concessionary company of this motorway, which has never won a race even though it has managed it for sixty years, that is, since before I was born, has already made contacts to sell this gift obtained by the Government for 1.2 billion to a Spanish company. And then President Renzi said that we must extend the concessions in order to guarantee Italianity! We begin to guarantee Italians, then we will guarantee Italianity. And then it would be Italianity to give a concession to a company to sell it to a Spanish company? It happens that the seller is a big bank, the same one of which a very high executive was Minister in some government before her, probably during which was placed the first of the signatures to extend this concession! This is what concerns the second motorway. The third motorway in Italy is Turin-Milan, with 225 million revenues per year and 145 million margins: a safe deal. There is no activity in Italy that is so profitable and guaranteed. Well, what happens to this motorway, for which a race has never been carried out? Thanks to the measure unlocks Italy the manager thinks of associating it, with the excuse of an amalgamation that is totally pretentious, to the Turin-Piacenza, which is the fifth highway of Italy, whose concession has imminent expiration. Since this concession will expire in a year's time, the competitions should have already been called, Minister, because it takes at least two years to carry out a race of this kind. Instead, the decree unlocks Italy with an article that I would call "svendi Italia"; in this article this concessionaire is granted the extension of the concession until 2035 or, even, 2046. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, give me a few more minutes because our Group still has them. This extension is even possible until 2046 taking the cue of the famous Asti-Cuneo motorway, never completed by this manager, despite having to do so. And we could move on. Mr Minister, what is the point of a more or less good measure and, in any case, a positive measure on procurement if contracts are not then made? I mentioned five of the six main Italian motorways. You, Minister and your Government, are finding every pretext and every trick not to do these contracts. What is the use of this provision? For 50,000 euro contracts? Well come, those must also be done well; every penny of the taxpayer must be treated with the utmost respect, but here we are mocking ourselves because the rigor on contracts is established from 50,000 euros and then, when we talk of tens of billions of receipts and profits on the shoulders of Italian companies and motorists, instead the races are not done. You find every pretext. On this, Minister, it would have been decent if, before announcing these signatures, you had answered the questions, just as it would be decent that the accuracy and rigour, which are being asked of those who tender for 50,000 euros, are also required when you make gifts from billions to subjects who, by chance, are the ones who have participated against whom you have declared a false war and who, by chance, have participated very close to a party that has been decisive in voting on this wretched constitutional reform. Therefore, the provision is fine, but it is very bad to mock the Italians by passing a good provision and then be the first to not respect it radically and shamelessly. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u38	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u39	Madam President, one of the fundamental goodnesses, in my opinion, of this new legislation has already highlighted it well: it puts itself at the lowest level that has led so badly to the Italian economy in general; so badly to workers and workers, to the quality and professionalism of both companies and the workforce. Another issue in this legislation is the fate of workers and workers in the exchange of contracts. We have had a lot of discussions in the Senate working on this issue in the Commission. The text was fired at first reading and the House brought three novelties. One is the rewarding criterion for promoting employment by favouring employees already employed in previous contracts with the introduction of the social clause aimed at promoting the employment stability of staff and a specific social clause for call centres. In the face of these changes, the Senate's Work Commission has sought the opinion of two important authorities in our country, the National Anti-Corruption Authority and the Competition and Market Authority. The opinions were very important to us in drawing up the final opinion in the Commission work. The DAC has emphasized that the social clause for the absorption of workers and workers must be harmonized with the organization of the successor enterprises and with the technical-organizational and labour requirements provided for in the new contract in the social context and in the new business context. Following this opinion, the Senate's work committee expressed itself in the sense of inviting the Government to adopt regulations that together maintain the satisfaction of social and environmental demands, as provided for in the directives, of which we must maintain goodness. As I said, the social requirements - first and foremost the employment consequences - must be kept together with the rules on equal treatment and competition, as well as the organizational requirements of companies. The Competition Authority also asked to take account of the fact that it is delicate to balance the protection of social clauses with those of competition. The social compatibility, moreover, is very well underlined by Article 41 of our Constitution, which provides that the economic initiative is free and must take place not in conflict with the social usefulness. Therefore, social compatibility is fundamental, both in the Community legal system and in our Constitution. We therefore ask the Government to take account of these two opinions in the preparation of the implementing decrees. Keeping in mind, it means keeping together, or harmonizing different needs: this is one of the cases that testifies to the effort and beauty of lawmaking, keeping together and harmonizing different needs. Without inferences, we need so much innovation, organisational efficiency, technological progress in public procurement and, at the same time, we need to protect employment. Keeping these issues together is also the responsibility of the social partners: many contracts already provide for social clauses, but probably the social partners should not only make defensive policies, but also take care of the professional strengthening of workers and workers, because technological progress risks making the skills of workers and workers obsolete, with repercussions also on the quality of public procurement. The second topic to consider is that of the country system. We have recently completed the jobs act, the delegation at work, which also deals with a fundamental subject, which in Italy we still have to implement, like that of active policies. Therefore, the whole country system must take care of this issue, in order to allow, even following the changed technical and organizational conditions, even in the case of the change of contract, a relocation of workers and workers in the productive fabric of the new social context. In short, as I said, we must keep together different needs, that is to protect free competition and the need to make the Italian system open to the investment of foreign companies, harmonizing all this with the needs of employment. We do this taking into account that the country system must also take care of the professionalism of our workers and our workers. In Italy all this is still firm, it is still difficult to do so, but we cannot tackle the issue of work in small pieces, so we must also include the issue of procurement in the biggest one related to the professionalism and skills of workers. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u40	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u41	Madam President, I believe that the perplexities expressed by the rapporteur in his report make it very clear how far we have managed to throw in the shuttle between the Senate and the House: in the passage between the two edges, we have made a considerable mistake. I wanted to make this joke, Minister and Deputy Minister, because the League Group on this passage, which we believe to be fundamental, had really tried to have a proactive approach to the text of the Government, which was imperfect and which was enriched by the Commission, with serious and sensible work, so that it could better reflect the needs of our days, reviewing and rationalising the subject of procurement as a whole. This is in order to create a more transparent and effective system, but also more streamlined and sburocratic, able to ensure legal certainty and effective competitiveness between economic operators. I remember that it was our concern to stress that ours has always been the only country in Europe that was able to tender for large infrastructure works, using the integrated procurement system. It is something that, in our opinion, is not functional to the success of a work in its complexity. We have repeatedly stressed the fact that, in our opinion, this should and must be changed, because at the center of a contract and an important infrastructure work for the country must be put, in addition to its effectiveness and its strategicity, also the quality of the project. Minister, I think you know very well that in our country we are able to create really bizarre situations and I do not miss the opportunity to remind you that very important infrastructure works have created an opportunity for a global embarrassment. You will remember that we are building a railway and that the same company that has worked in our country worked in a state adjacent to ours; well, there the work has been carried out while we can assure you that to date the yard is stopped. However, we have good hopes, because there is also a clear commitment on his part and I am convinced that in 2017 we will get there, also because - I reminded his colleague Minister for Economic Affairs, during the hearing at the 8th Commission - the Swiss were able to include as a binding point of the agreement (which will stimulate the Government, but which will then pass on to Parliament) on the issue of border crossing points that we make the infrastructure. This tells you a lot about how we are flawed from this point of view. In the first reading of the Senate, the group I represent voted in favour of the measure, precisely in the conviction (and perhaps in an excessive momentum, of which I take on paternity towards the Government and also towards the House, because the disaster was finally done in that branch of Parliament) and in the hope of going beyond the difficulties present in the country. Our momentum has been so strong that we have even shared the fact that the objective law could be abolished. I remind you, but you know it better than I do, that in this country we have approved the objective law for a simple reason, to succeed in carrying out the works. In fact, the bureaucracy is so complex and articulated that without a preferential lane they could not be contracted. That is why we are talking about objective law, special law, strategic works. Over the years the objective law has become the book of dreams with an endless row of works; we have told the Minister to clean up, to eliminate the works that have been there for years with ghost stakeouts of money. However, you managed to combine a chaos (perhaps you did not, but the Prime Minister did), because in the passage of last year on the issue of strategic works exceeded the objective law, you did however make a list of 25 works. Do you remember? We discussed this in the Commission. You made a commitment in front of the Commission on the 25 strategic works, including - I say this with a little 'irony - the tram of Florence was also inserted (perhaps you think that if you do not make the tram of Florence this country will not go on in the transport system). The clear commitment of his Dicastery, in his person, had been to say that in the updating phase of the Document of economics and finance would be developed all the strategic works, which among other things are also the result - and this is a very important administrative step - of program agreements made by the central State, that is the Ministries of infrastructures and the economy, the Regions, the Provinces and the mountain communities for infrastructural works included in the law objective. Well, you deleted them, you don't know how, but that's what happened: they are no longer strategic works and the funds are not known where they are gone; Padoan will have them, I don't know, somewhere they will be, but such works no longer have their name and surname. The question, Minister - and I tell you not as a politician, but from whom on the territory has worked for these infrastructures from the administrative point of view, in the Province and also in the Region - is that these works, which had name and surname and were serious works throughout the country, were different from the book of dreams. Well, you erased them, and you don't know how they're going to go on. We will watch over the territories and we are confident that these works will certainly be carried out, but the fact that the objective law in fact is deleted - and in part might even be well with it - embarrasssss us on certain passages related to the procedures of EIA, VAS and anything else. I do not go into the matter because it is too technical, but we are a bit in limbo and the issue is not very clear. Instead, I want to focus on other issues which, in my opinion, are very important. Paradoxically, situations have been introduced in the House that leave us very perplexed; these are new provisions that have modified essential points. The most embarrassing thing is the fact that the procurement reform sees DAC as the core of the system. In fact DAC is assigned supervisory and control functions, powers of recommendation and precautionary intervention as well as the concrete possibilities to intervene in deterrent and sanctioning system. It's like a policeman who watches, very well, because maybe it's indispensable in this country, since you can't change your mindset. There is no such thing as being able to administer and manage public affairs with serenity, criterion and transparency. The problem, in our view, is that this is a combination of powers that Parliament gives to the Authority, that is to say to a technical body that is considered independent but which, without taking away anything from the correctness and responsibility shown by Councilman Cantone on several occasions, is not a body chosen and voted by the citizens. The Authority will even have to draw up guidelines to replace the public works regulation. We want to understand if there really is the courage in this country to change by saying that not all administrators are thieves and corrupt. There is a part of the country that manages to work well and has shown it, Minister: lively God, we leave the real representatives of the citizens the opportunity to manage the public thing in a serious way. We are concerned that this excess of vigilance on the part of ANAC can create a situation that, from the political point of view, will deteriorate that ruling class on the territories that, in fact, has already expired in recent years. To be a mayor today you have to be a little crazy; the Presidents of the Province have canceled them a bit, they are half-service (you know that from this point of view we are on two different planets), and in fact we see what is happening on the territories. At this point, the plan seems very clear to me: the will is to concentrate in the hands of the central state all the powers and all the prerogatives also to do public works. Will they choose them and inspire their territories? We do not know and we do not know how far you want to go, but it is clear that the attitude you have shown leaves us very perplexed. I would also like to say to you - do not take it seriously - that it leaves us very perplexed, in our opinion, a lack of planning and strategy. Today in the Commission his colleague Padoan was very clear on the issue of the privatization of the railways and made a very lucid and shared analysis: he was very good Padoan, an accountant, and he did an analysis on how to make cash by selling parts of the railways. However, he also expressed my concerns: he said that he does not know what the management model will be like once the process has been completed and that the options will have to be assessed, but the important thing is to cash in. That's what I'm saying, Minister? I say this because we believe that what we have in the country at the moment are opportunities for development and relaunch. We are not, and we have shown this in fact, Minister, refractory to the Government's proposals that they be the privatization of the railways rather than the modification of the procurement code but we want to know what death, we want certainties, we want planning, Minister. We do not want to find ourselves, as happened yesterday morning, with a passage made by those who sat in your Dicastery before you, that is then Minister Lupi, on the so-called Linate decree which, in fact, put us in canvas brags because we know what opinion the European Commission expressed a few days ago: that is not good either. And it's not okay, Minister, not even to think that the country's infrastructure and transport system can be improvised because we've done it too often. You cannot ask us to tell us what strategic airports are in the country and what hubs are if we do not know the industrial plan, Minister. We cannot talk about transport or the procurement code unless we know what the industrial plans of the country's major systems and carriers are. Let's be told by the new masters, the Bedouins of Etihad, since it's theirs. They tell us what they want to do, where they want to fly and what the strategies will be. No! Tell us that maybe Turin becomes strategic because it could become Malpensa's third track. I also heard this: someone says it became strategic as Malpensa's third track. All right, let's check-in in Turin and go catch the plane a hundred kilometers away in Malpensa. Let's avoid these things: let's make strategy. If you really want to give a signal - and we are not refractory, as far as infrastructure is concerned, to strong signals - let us remember that we cannot stop in half because what we have today is a situation that, in fact, enables us to make a reasoning only to a certain extent. We do not understand what the real will is, Minister. With regard to the question of overcoming the objective law, I still take the opportunity to stress one issue. It is expected that the objective law will be exceeded, as you have foreseen, in the sense that ordinary procedures will also be established for procurement procedures for strategic works and also for the related rules of EIA and VAS. We are perplexed: with the procurement code on which you want the delegation, will you really be able to guarantee that in this country we will be able to do such works without an objective law? The objective law - I repeat - has been approved in order to have extraordinary and facilitated procedures in order to be able to carry out the works. And we're not sure that in the juniper we're gonna get into, we're gonna be able to give this guarantee. That is why we are, as I said at the beginning, very perplexed to renew to the Government the confidence that we gave at first reading to the Senate and that, with regard to our colleagues in the League Group in the House, it has already been called into question because they abstained. I say this with great serenity, since we know each other now, Minister. Perhaps the debate is also harsh and scratching, but among our benches sits all people who have administered the common good and who have fought to pursue the goal, the mission, to do the works, in all their components. (Next CROSIO) Not only do I say that, but our federal secretary also says that it would not be the League to back down if a bill or a decree-law were presented with which certain anomalies such as the Fornero law or anything else are overcome. We do not tremble in the face of supporting the government if a serious proposal comes in; and we have demonstrated this by the fact that we have worked seriously on the reform of the procurement code. But we want guarantees, Minister, because we want to give them to the territory. We have to give them to the territory. We are aware - on this we want to be very clear - of the fact that perhaps some naughty administrators have had it too. Every day the newspapers and television talk to us about problems at the administrative level, either for one matter, or for another. But we must also have confidence in a possible renewal and in the fact that the mayors are not all thieves. In fact, mayors are all good people. They're good family fathers. It is with these assumptions that we want to address this important issue, otherwise our country remains on the stakes. And I tell you, Minister, that we are not very happy with how your Dicastery is currently responding to the needs of the country with regard to infrastructure. We must be more incisive, Minister. And to be incisive also means to have the courage, in our opinion, regarding the reform of the code of contracts, to take the bull by the horns and to undertake passages even strong, but determined. You can't keep teasing us, saying that the strategic works are here; then the other one comes from Florence and says that the Florence tram is a strategic work. And so we cancel Valdastico and accessibility to Valtellina; I don't say it because they are Valtellina, but because there are 600 million that have been financed largely by the Lombardy Region and the local authorities, with a program agreement. And we erase that work. Where'd she go? I don't know. They ask me every day and I answer that I don't know, because there is no document or piece of paper in which there is written name and surname (it is called X and the money is called Gigetto). No, it isn't; unfortunately it isn't. Then you can think of continuing on this line and, as far as we are concerned, you will not have our consent and support. We gave it to you on the code of contracts at first instance, aware of doing so and giving a good credit line to the great work that has been done. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Nencini for his first reading work in the Commission. However, if the prerogatives and conditions are those that we read in the text that came to us from the House, it will be difficult to continue to support this reform and this delegated law, in which we can no longer recognize ourselves. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Langella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are dealing with has already come to our attention in June 2015. It has therefore been more than six months for a measure widely awaited by the productive world of our country, which we hope can see today the light positively and without further delay. It is in fact a measure of delegation to the Government for the transposition of three important European directives, concerning the award of concession contracts, public contracts, the procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, as well as the reorganization of the rules in force in this matter. With the approval of this provision, we delegate to the Government the burden of adopting two separate implementing decrees, one by April 2016 and the other by July 2016. But we basically delegate to the government the task of making quick, bringing within our system the best practices adopted in other European countries on the subject. The need for speedy action is dictated by a need no longer to be deferred for bureaucracy and simplification. Indeed, those who had the opportunity to listen to the companies on the subject have been able to see that a constant cause of complaint is linked to the lack of procedural homogeneity of the various contracting stations, especially with regard to the production of documents. Therefore, the inclusion in this measure of a clear and explicit reference to the criterion of simplification, harmonisation and progressive digitisation of procedures in the field of public procurement and concession contracts, through the use of computer systems and networks already tested elsewhere, with the precise aim of facilitating the access of small and medium-sized enterprises, facilitating their adequate knowledge with a faster timetable. In other words, we cannot forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the problem of procedural unevenness with regard to participation in tenders has represented and continues to represent an excessive cost for small businesses compared to the requirements of the various contracting stations. In fact, there are contracting stations that request the storage of copies of documents, others that require the originals, still others that require further and different documentation. It is therefore essential that the Government guarantees this uniformity and certainty of procedures, as well as the certainty of the times, in order to recreate that climate of trust which is an indispensable precondition for any development path. As well as we can only express a positive assessment as contained in the measure regarding the prohibition of the custody of contracts through procedures derogating from ordinary ones, with the exception of individual and targeted cases related to situations dictated by the emergency. In other words, it is expected that the decrees delegated to the Government will define the discipline of the procedures of acquisition of services, supplies and works to be applied in the event of emergencies concerning civil protection, which put together, in a clear and transparent way, the need to be timely in actions with the need to have effective mechanisms of control and publicity. It is also appropriate for us to consider the specific rules governing secret contracts, i.e. contracts requiring special security measures, for which they are expected to be subject to scrutiny by the Court of Auditors. These are important aspects, so that we do not find ourselves faced with facts in which, in the name of speed and timeliness, the duties of transparency and control have gone into the background, with all the problems that have arisen and of which we are all aware. Appreciation, moreover, we express for this measure in the part in which we refer to the criteria of energy and environmental sustainability, which must, therefore, also cover public contracts and concession contracts. In particular, it is a positive fact, which stimulates healthy competition between companies, the fact that additional points are provided for those who propose goods and services that have a lower impact on health and the environment. This is an important criterion, in the light of a world, especially the productive one, which must be increasingly oriented towards environmental sustainability. Therefore, it is right that the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer should be looked at in a broader sense and not in a reductive way, which in past years has revealed all its limitations. Too often the criterion of the lower price or the greater reduction of the auction, detached from an adequate analysis on what the concept of "majorly advantageous" really means, has resulted in problems not indifferent, if not real market distortions. Yet it is known that multiple races have been awarded to those who submitted bids with a decrease of 40% or more. The question then arises as to whether the famous economic advantage would not be frustrated by the lack of quality. Well, having provided in this measure that in order to judge an offer as the most economically advantageous one must consider the best value for money is certainly a positive fact. This report must be measurable and verifiable on the basis of objective criteria, both cost-effective and qualitative, environmental and social criteria relating to the subject-matter of the public contract or concession contract in accordance with the principles of transparency and equal treatment. You will excuse me if I insist on this, but I believe that stopping at the traditional concept of economically more advantageous offer ends up penalising small businesses compared to larger and stronger ones financially. And one can understand why: the area in which small businesses can really compete with large companies is precisely that of quality. Therefore, to make the criterion that what costs me less is economically more advantageous and effective, and that guarantees me more quality, is worth not only affirming, but also making the principle of equal treatment between companies live and real. From this point of view, much will depend on the contracting stations that will really be able to monitor and select the best and highest quality companies that deserve to be on the market for the good of the country. Mr Minister, the overall assessment of the measure we are about to vote on is positive. And, if of course everything can be improved, it is also true that the excellent is enemy of the good and, therefore, it is worth at this moment welcoming the measure, hoping that the government will play its part quickly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u44	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are examining and - I hope - approving an important text. This draft law delegates the transposition of three European directives on public procurement and concessions. The measure is being examined by the Senate at second reading and, during the first reading, was shared by the Assembly with only two votes against and the abstention of only two parliamentary groups: the 5 Star Movement and SEL. All other groups voted in favour. The changes introduced to the Chamber of Deputies have, however, modified the judgment of certain parliamentary groups: SEL's position has moved from abstention to vote in favour; the North League - as has already been announced - abstained from the Chamber after voting favorably in the Senate and will probably vote against in this second reading; the 5 Star Movement has changed its position from abstention to voting against. As I said, the other parliamentary groups have kept their vote in favour. I will focus on the main and most significant differences between the text approved in the Senate and the one approved by the Chamber of Deputies, also to understand the evolution of the judgment of some Groups. Leave me this curiosity. The first novelty introduced to the Chamber consists in the possibility to transpose the three directives in question through two decrees: the so-called decree of transposition and decree of reorder. The first decree is closely linked to the transposition of the directives, while the second will replace the legislative decree of 12 April 2006, n. 163, thus forming the code of public contracts and concession contracts. This change, which may seem technical, will give us the opportunity to have a single text containing the rules on public procurement and concessions, which is an important novelty. The second major innovation is contained in the amendment approved by the Chamber of Deputies which extends the object of the decree to the coordination with the provisions on environmental and landscape protection and protection, environmental impact assessment, protection and enhancement of cultural heritage and transparency and anti-corruption. The text before us also provides for the delegation to be implemented by ensuring, in line with the requirements of the European standard, the third recital of the 2014 European Directive No 24, namely the accessibility of people with disabilities in the choice of information and communication technologies, technical specifications, award criteria and the conditions for the performance of a contract. As far as I am concerned, these changes introduced by the House in the field of environmental protection and people with disabilities are absolutely acceptable. A fourth point included in the Chamber of Deputies concerns the provision of rules applicable to public works contracts, services and supplies of less than the thresholds of Community importance. This amendment provides that a tender should be submitted by at least five economic operators, where existing. The same provision specifies that these disciplines must be based on criteria of maximum simplification and speed of procedures, safeguarding the principles of transparency and impartiality of the invitation to tender. These are also absolutely welcome news. A fifth and further point amended by the Chamber of Deputies sets out the criterion of simplification, harmonisation and progressive digitisation of the procedures for entrusting public contracts and concession contracts. The House of Deputies has introduced two further specifications: facilitating the access of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises through greater dissemination of information and an appropriate timing, and aiming at technological and digital innovation and the interconnection of public administration. And this fits in with the government's two programmes on ultra-wide band and digital Italy, which we have examined on other occasions and which I believe we all share. In addition, the express prohibition of the reliance on contracts by way of derogation from ordinary procedures, with the exception of emerging situations, was introduced. These are also acceptable provisions. The House of Deputies has introduced a specific framework for secret contracts or requiring special security measures, subjecting them - for example - among other things, to the audit of the Court of Auditors. Another novelty is the reordering and simplification of the specific legislation on contracts relating to cultural goods, ensuring the transparency and publicity of the acts. In addition, in the course of the examination to the Chamber of Deputies, in order to ensure compliance with the criteria of energy and environmental sustainability in the award of contracts, it is expected that the exercise of the delegation is carried out also using the award criterion based on the total costs of the life cycle (so, not only on the cost at the time of purchase but, however long the contract, the service or the good, also on the costs of maintenance and what else), attributing a greater score for the services and the goods that have a minor impact on the health and the environment. The text in our examination provides for the definition of the requirements of economic and financial capacity, technical capacity, including organisational and professional capacity, which economic operators must possess in order to participate in the tendering procedures. The concept of simple economic capacity, perhaps linked only to turnover, has therefore been extended. During the examination in the Chamber of Deputies it was further specified that the above capacity requirements must be relevant and proportionate to the subject matter of the contract, that potential participants must be chosen by the contracting stations in accordance with the principles of transparency and rotation, taking into account the public interest and facilitating the access of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. As regards the advertising of notices and notices of invitation to tender, the Chamber deleted the reference to publication in newspapers, providing only for computerized advertising, ensuring adequate levels of transparency and knowledge and, in any case, providing for publication on a single digital platform at the DAC. And this is also the subject of an intervention in the decree so-called milleproroghe, which extends to the whole of 2016 the publication in the newspapers. The transposition of this Directive will end this practice and will proceed with the publication of notices only online, clearly ensuring savings and, at the same time, greater transparency and knowledge. The text approved at the Senate provided for the revision and improvement of the efficiency of the procurement procedures of CONSIP SpA, through an increasing use of telematic tendering. In the course of the examination in the Chamber this point has been integrated in order to specify that the revision and improvement of the efficiency of the procurement procedures concern the framework agreements, the conventions and generally the procedures usable from CONSIP SpA; and to promote a system of purchasing networks and ensure the effective participation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The Chamber was also obliged to publish on its website the financial report at the end of the execution of the contract; the division into lots has been ensured in compliance with European legislation; appropriate forms of centralisation of clients and reduction of the number of contracting stations defined at the level of union of municipalities, where existing, or using other aggregate entity in accordance with current legislation have been introduced. The text approved in the Senate provided for a centralisation at regional or subprovincial level depending on the amount of the contract, while the Chamber - as we have seen - opted for centralization at an intermediate level (however lower), i.e. the union of municipalities. The number of contracting stations, which was assumed in the order of twenty (as many as the Regions evidently) in certain cases and, in some other cases, of a hundred (in the case of the Provinces), is now, according to the text of the House, certainly higher and also difficult to quantify. And this is certainly a controversial point. During the examination in the Chamber, the application of a specific sanctioning regime was introduced in respect of contracting stations for the failure or delay to notify the DAC of the changes in work in respect of contracts of an amount equal to or greater than the Community threshold. Since the text approved to the Senate, it has been envisaged to use, for the award of contracts, the criterion of the most economically advantageous tender, measured on the best value for money, assessed with objective criteria on the basis of the qualitative, environmental or social aspects related to the subject matter of the public contract or concession contract. The exclusive use of the criterion of the most economically advantageous tender for the award of public contracts relating to hospital, welfare and school catering services has been imposed, categorically excluding in any case the application of the sole criterion for the award of price or cost, intended as the criterion of the lowest price or the maximum reduction of the auction. During the examination in the Chamber, it was introduced the exclusive use of the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer also for the award of public contracts of labour-intensive services, defined as those in which the cost of labour is at least 50% of the total amount of the contract. These provisions put an end to the criterion of maximum reduction that we know how much damage it has caused in Italy in recent years. The text approved in the Senate provided for the creation of a mandatory national register of members of the public procurement and concession boards with the National Anti-corruption Authority. The Chamber has also provided that, in the establishment of the register, the previous professional activities of the members, and therefore their curricula, and the possible existence of hypotheses of conflict of interest, will be taken into account, following appropriate checks, and that the subject is always very dear to everyone and that deserves due attention. In addition, a strengthening of the control functions of the contracting station has been envisaged, providing for an appropriate sanctioning system in the case of incomplete or non-supervisory controls. The criterion inserted during the examination in the Chamber provides for the revision of the discipline of entrusting the assignments of test to civil servants in activity or in treatment of quiescence. It is expected that the new rules contain the prohibition of the assignment of testing for public works contracts above the threshold located in the Region seat of the administration of belonging and define limits to the amount of fees. The present text also provides for the revision of the existing system of qualification of economic operators on the basis of criteria of homogeneity, transparency and verification of skills, technical and professional skills, as well as of the activities actually carried out. During the examination in the Chamber it was specified, on the one hand, that the verification of the realization capacities must be formal and substantial and, on the other hand, that the verification of the competences must also concern the organic human resources to the enterprise. The new legislation in our examination specifies that the parties concerned by better access to the public contract market are not only small and medium-sized enterprises and newly established enterprises - as was foreseen in the initial text of the draft law - but also small and medium-sized economic operators and young professionals, as well as - according to an amendment approved by the House of Deputies - micro-enterprises. These are also absolutely acceptable provisions. In the text we find, then, provisions relating to the valorization of social needs and environmental sustainability, providing for the introduction of criteria and rewards for the evaluation of offers to be awarded to companies, taking into account the use, even partial, in the execution of the contract of workers or staff at local level or - according to an amendment approved by the Chamber - as a priority of the employees already employed in the same contract. I think this provision is particularly important in order to ensure continuity of work for employees and, consequently, greater tranquility for many families. The same is true of the introduction of a specific framework for public service contracts, other than those of an intellectual nature, with particular regard to labour-intensive contracts, defined as those in which the cost of labour is at least 50% of the total amount of the contract. In this respect, social clauses are envisaged to promote the employment stability of employees. In reviewing the discipline of concession contracts, it was pointed out that, with regard to concessions in the water sector, the outcome of the repealing referendum of 12-13 June 2011, the famous referendum on public water, was respected. For those who, like me, committed themselves that year to collecting signatures for this referendum, this new provision is certainly to be welcomed positively and with extreme support. In the text to our examination it is entrusted to the delegated legislator the introduction of forms of public debate of the local communities of the territories concerned from the realization of great infrastructural projects. These are forms of involvement of the populations impacted by major projects in the spirit of the Aarhus Convention and which are certainly welcome. Another amendment introduced to the Chamber, which has already been mentioned, provides for the overcoming of the provisions of the objective law. This is a very important rule if we consider that, not later than last March 2015, the President of the DAC Canton defigured this criminal law and wished it to be completely overtaken. We're finally getting there. Paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the draft law to our examination provides in the exercise of the delegations, according to an amendment approved by the Chamber, the conduct of consultations of the main categories of public and private subjects addressed to the legislation itself. In conclusion, the valid text approved to the Senate was certainly improved by the work of the House. Greater protection is provided for workers, the overcoming of the objective law, the end of the maximum reduction criterion, replaced by the most economically advantageous offer (OEPV), measured on the ratio of quality to price and taking into account the full life cycle. Without repeating the whole list, I can conclude that interventions from the House are certainly improvements. Obviously, as for all texts, there is some criticality related to the duplication of the database (there will be one at the DAC and one at the Ministry of Infrastructure) or to the management of the framework agreements. Overall, the valid text approved by the Senate has been further modified by the House and, when receiving the delegation, I hope that with this trend the Government will also play its part. I still doubt the most negative judgment by some political forces in the transition to the House. Perhaps, however, this is simply a preliminary ruling which is not related to the substance of the measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u46	There is in the gallery a group of citizens, accompanied by some municipal councillors, of the Municipality of Viadana, in the province of Mantua, who are following our works and we salute. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u47	Mr President, the draft delegation law that we are examining today provides for the overall reordering of the current rules on public contracts, the delegation of powers for the implementation of the directives on procurement procedures and, therefore, not only the decree for the transposition of directives and for the implementation of European directives, but also the complete rewriting of the procurement code, which is fundamental to us, in place of the one in force. Already from the first passage to the Senate we have welcomed the presentation of the provision as the fact that finally it was put hand to an area like that of public contracts and works that, as has been regulated and stratified in recent years, also in the practice in our country, has unfortunately allowed and favored not only the spread of corruption and illegality, but also great waste of public money and the realization of works, where they have been carried out, often very questionable in quality. All this has contributed over the years to the constant use - it has to be said - of derogation procedures and exceptional rules in emerging situations. I would like to remind you, among other things, that our country spends more than 15% of its GDP on public procurement. You understand that the impact of all this in our country's life is remarkable. During the first reading at the Senate we can say that the text, compared to the one presented by the Government, was improved, as it happened in some passages and through changes resulting from the work of the House. Of course, many of the forecasts contained mark a positive change in relation to the current rules on procurement. I repeat that we are talking about a delegated law and, therefore, the decisive game - I am addressing the Government - will consist in monitoring the real compliance of future implementing decrees with the principles and criteria set out in the text. In our view, however, they remain - I would like to stress this again in the light of the reasoning put forward on the situation of the procedures used on contracts a number of critical issues, some of which have been partly addressed and even exceeded in the Chamber of Deputies, while others remain not entirely resolved. The first question is about the objective law, which I want to go back to. By the way, you, Minister, had clearly announced - or at least so we felt, at some point - the repeal of the objective law tout court. The text before us is certainly intended to go beyond the provisions of the objective law, obviously after the entry into force of the future legislative decree. In our view, however, precisely because of the nature and impact of this law on the procurement situation and given all the derogation procedures used in the procurement field, it would have been and would have been much more serious to speak clearly and explicitly of the repeal of the target law. I have mentioned you, Minister, but I could also mention President Cantone - since he is always used - who had defined the criminal objective law. We didn't say that, but Cantone said it. This standard has been precisely defined in these terms. Mr Minister, you know better than we that the objective law, which had the main purpose of constituting preferential lanes and derogations for certain types of works, introduced one of the most controversial institutions, namely the figure of the general contractor, i.e. the winning party, who was granted almost absolute freedom, with the power to freely entrust to third parties the performance of his services, by private negotiation. In fact, the contractor was in a condition of total irresponsibility, which causes disinterest in the quality and reliability of the work, unlike normal contractors, who operate, on the basis of executive projects and are monitored by the clients. And not only that: as you know, Minister, the contractor-general appointed the figure of the director of the work. You know perfectly well, Minister, that we have challenged these content of the objective law, which, among other things, has been functional to the endless list of CIPE's works - there are now more than 300 - which we strongly ask to clean up, finally choosing priorities. It was precisely intended to favour, with almost emergency procedures and derogations from the general rules, the time of the great works, which, however, did not bring good to the country, from any point of view. I would also like to stress that the objective law has created a crisis situation in the system of small and medium-sized enterprises, because either it was part of a partnership or it had completely cut itself off. It has therefore had an impact on the quality of the works, on costs, on public resources and on the realization of very questionable works. And I insist on this point, because it would be a clear message to make explicit reference to the repeal of that legislation tout court. There are also positive elements that I would like to highlight, such as the updating of the general transport and logistics plan, reprogramming of resources on the basis of a planning criterion and, above all, the application of strategic environmental assessment procedures, namely SEA and EIA. This is certainly very important, Minister, because I recall that the famous list of works of the target law has never been submitted to a strategic environmental assessment, even when the European SEA Directive came into force in 2006. And, therefore, the selection of infrastructure works in transport has never been applied. Another important intervention contained in the draft law under consideration is that restricting the use of the maximum reduction procedure. And, in this regard, I would like to mention an important element introduced to the House also on the basis of an amendment by the Left Ecology and Freedom, namely the fact that the most economically advantageous offer must also be measured on the basis of the best value for money to be identified according to objective criteria, following a cost-effectiveness approach, such as the cost of the life cycle, and taking into account environmental and social parameters. This is absolutely essential, especially when using a procedure that must relate - and therefore balance - the most advantageous offer with the best value for money and, in general, the sustainability parameters. Other elements concern the variants in progress and the contracting stations. In this latter regard, it was not only the reduction in the number of contracting stations, but also the forecast of strengthening the functions of organisation, management and control. The House has been introduced with the element of the social clause, i.e. the introduction into the public procurement framework of social clauses for the employment stability of employees and, therefore, for labour-intensive service contracts. Another important point - in our opinion - is the rule for call centers, which provides, in case of succession of undertakings in the contract with the same contractor and for the same activity as call center, the continuation of the employment relationship. I stress this positive part, because the arrival of this bill delegates to the Senate has been preceded by a series of discussions that have made it almost possible to exclude this very rightful rule introduced, especially at a time like the present one of a major employment crisis - whatever the case may be - and I hope that this will not be achieved. I do not mention any other important issues such as the strengthening of the powers of the National Anti-corruption Authority, the public debate of local communities and territories concerned with the implementation of major works (a key element of the environmental impact assessment), measures aimed at ensuring compliance with the criteria of energy and environmental sustainability in the award of contracts. However, I would like to recall other elements that remain also in the passage to the House and that do not convince us. I am referring to the provision for a derogation from the requirement for public and private dealers to contract 80% of public works and services. In this regard, I would like to point out that, in the wording adopted by the Senate, 100% was expected and, therefore, it was a change in the House that brought it up to 80%. Above all - and we have already spoken on this several times - we are not convinced by the derogation for existing or new award concessions entrusted with the formula of project financing. We still do not understand this derogation procedure, partly because this sector needs greater transparency. This also concerns the issue of motorway concessions, which we have discussed for a long time. The fact remains that, for the concessions that are due or those that have expired, there is a transitional discipline that we do not believe falls within the scope of the guarantee of all the tenders and public procedures. I believe that a good job has been done and further significant elements have been introduced to the House, but there are still some doubts and critical issues that I have tried to summarize, with respect to both the issue of 80% for the award of the races and the abolition aimed at ensuring maximum publicity and transparency regarding notices and calls for tenders, which I hope in this further passage to the Senate can be resolved in a positive way. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u48	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u49	Mr President, we have reached the last chapter of the draft delegation law on the Procurement Code, which is a very important issue, since - we must not forget - much of the corruption in this country passes through procurement. So, we need to be very careful about how we write the rules. Our country, for those who remember history a bit, had a regulation that resisted a hundred and ten years and that has been modified many times, starting from the so-called Merloni law (it tried to change the rules of the game). It seems to us, however, that the results were not expected by amending the old Regulation No 350 of 1895. When we started our journey here in the Senate, we tried to use the method of reasoning in a very clear, clean and quiet way to achieve the main objective, the general objective, that of citizens, that is to spend well the money we have and to ensure that there is transparency and the possibility of doing the public works useful for this country. We always talk about public works, and we all remember that famous advertising campaign in which a handbag appeared and it was said "the economy turns with you," as if the world were spinning with that handbag (who knows if it contained bribes or what else). The important thing, however, is to try to achieve the goal, and here in the Senate we have done a job that I would call quite good, rather interesting. We canceled what was the government's initial proposal and tried to rewrite it. We have done a job that has reached a decent level of deepening, putting certain stakes, so much so that our Group abstained because the text contained some critical issues, but not so serious as to cause us to vote against. Something different happened to the House: although some elements have been inserted, especially with regard to the levels of transparency, some passages have undoubtedly worsened the text. Of course, we could talk about concessions, which is very important. All of us have in mind the motorway concessions, but there are also the port concessions that are very relevant: extensions of port concessions have been made that will end in seventy years, without making the races. Some problems had to be dealt with in a strong and determined way by the actors who were supposed to intervene, but we slowed down a bit, so much so that in the letter ddd) - if I remember correctly - we have included the possibility for dealers to entrust not 100% by race, but 80%. And this is a vulnus on which we must pay attention, because it is undoubtedly a very important step. On the other hand, returning to the fundamental issue, when we talk about public procurement, the Court of Auditors points out that several billion euros go into corruption. We use the term "svariate" if we want to use a euphemism, but we are talking about very large numbers. Then there is the increased costs during the procurement phase. We always talk about variants and those who did - humbly, for goodness sake - the work of designer and director of the works of public works, when it happened to make a variant of the order of two or three percent, had to always be careful to ensure the overall interest of doing the work with that money and above all not to put them in your pocket. Then, however, we see great works with variants of even 60 percent, not to mention the great game of reservations that all of us who do this work know. The big one is done with reservations. There are companies that have disservices, there are projects that are badly done - for goodness sake - and the faults are also of the designers and the enterprises, but this system has allowed a great flow of money. Then, perhaps, we should do clean slates of what happened before and even the majority should take a nice bath of humility instead of mounting media cases on small local realities while in Rome he has wandered with Mafia Capitale for so many times. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This you are able to do: you are able to mount media cases but - you know - a bath of humility is certainly not the practice for the one who defines himself as the Premier. Then we should understand what Premier would mean, personified in that man. In any case, we must remind you - and we remind you - that citizens are not fools. Citizens look and understand what you want to do. We are a force of opposition to a system and you will never break us down! Let's go back to the code for a second. In the various passages a strong power was given to the DAC. We think the Ministry should write the rules. ANAC has a control function, because this has to do. If we tell ANAC to write the rules, we make sure the controller writes the rules that it itself, controller, then has to check. Look at that tongue twister coming out of this, which is what we do with ANAC. Then, at the beginning of the text, there is a ban on the introduction of higher levels of regulation than the minimum levels laid down in the directives. But in Europe there are neither the mafia, nor the camorra, nor the 'ndrangheta, nor the sacred united crown. Perhaps we should think that, sometimes, different rules may be needed for different states and here we would have asked to overcome that point, and instead we did not want to do it because we are good and clean. Let's go back to the topic of dealers. The pressure that has been made to reduce from 100% to 80% what is it? A failure to a lobby? With regard to the motorway dealers, we also approved - if I remember correctly - in the decree unblocking Italy, an extension of the agreement which explicitly stated that they must pay 2.4 percent of the profits. But we know that the state gets a third of the profit from the motorway concession. Then perhaps we should intervene. You must have the right value, as is also provided for in the Constitution, but the bulk of the profit must be for the citizens. Perhaps we should intervene on these matters. We are not talking about the only great work that we consider indispensable for this country: to bring fiber optics into all the municipalities. But in this regard, the government speaks, says something, does not act. Here too there is another strong lobby: Telecom. Let's face it! When contracts were carried out in zone C (for those who know the history the C clusters are those with partial market failure), seven calls were made from Infratel and - by chance - the only competitor was Telecom and the only winner was Telecom, who cashed 390 million euros and the network remains its property, when two thirds of the money was put by citizens and only one third by Telecom. Then we should see if the invoices are real or not, but that's another speech you'll investigate the DA on and we'll find out. Now we are talking about Infratel becoming the subject that implements and we must be careful what happened, because the vulnus is the way the bans are written. I can write very well a notice or a tender document so that it looks clean but has under the name and surname. And, therefore, we always return to the same problem of gifts to the lobby, dear gray comrades of the PD - to tell Giorgio Gaber - now that you are so indignados and you are part of the great movement of the indignados. Then what do we mean by the most economically advantageous offer? We always talk about the most economically advantageous offer. Well, do we want to get over the bottom of the line? That makes sense. In Campania the basses are very high and there are races that are awarded with 50 percent down; probably you can not perform well if you do 50 percent down. So let's go to the most economically advantageous offer. What's going on with that offer? If you do not write it well, the most economically advantageous offer is the means by which the bribes turn. That's also a means. We need to be very careful about how we write that offer, we need to be vigilant, we need to ensure transparency. Not to mention everything about the 2% incentive that we continue to give to public employees, but lifting them from the design phase. Do we leave him the same money to work less? Let us be careful, because the rule said that that 2% of the amount put on the basis of competition would be given to them if they were carrying out technical activities and if they were doing this work outside working hours. That was not the case; perhaps that 2% should be modulated. We have achieved the overcoming of the objective law. Well, when are we gonna start seeing the economic and financial plans for those works? Not us, but the citizens must be able to see them, because when the State plans a work, that work serves or does not serve the community? Do we want to see if that work has a financial balance, talking in your jargon and talking with your method, beyond all environmental aspects? When are you gonna show us these things? When do we start thinking about a different Italy? I do not know if we are able, indeed, if you are able to think of a different Italy; I think not, because in the end you are conservatives and you will die conservatives, dear gray comrades of the PD. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u50	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u51	Mr President, I should like to stress, before we even begin the debate on the substance, how this measure has been implemented, with a positive and particular note to my colleague Senator Esposito and to Mr Nencini. We started with a delegation law and a measure that was very generic. It took months and months of work to enter into the merits of the measure and to limit the areas of work of the Government. It has also been special months, because we all remember that, when this measure was incardinated in the 8th Commission, it was hot times, in which we read in the newspapers of illustrious arrests, concussion and corruption. They were also special moments, in which bridges collapsed and roads manifested their state of degradation, in a condition in which it was evident that the works had certainly not been realized in perfect rule of art. Many measures have been procrastinated or put on the side by the Commission, because there has been a great deal of work in this direction. We have taken a lot of responsibility in the Commission. I must say that this work has seen the participation of all, with great attention and dedication; there have been no majority or opposition, apart from the legitimate expectations of the various parties. I would like to point out eleven points, which seem to me to be particularly important, because here we move from a perhaps over-exhausted and over-exploited procurement code, a monster of 359 articles, with annexes and implementing regulations, to a streamlined code, with a simplification of rules and above all a reduction of the documentary burden that is particularly on companies, which are starting to have less and less staff and perhaps even less specialised staff than in the past. The competition is tough both in Italy and especially by companies that from abroad come here to Italy to participate in the contracts. Precisely for what I said, referring to the moments related to corruption and concussion, certainly a parenthesis must be dedicated to the National Anti-corruption Authority, because we have moved from a supervisory function, by this Authority, to a function instead of control and recommendation, with protective interventions and sanctions with binding effectiveness. With the contribution of all, we came out of a condition in which it was really difficult to control contracts in Italy: having 36,000 contracting stations in Italy means that anyone can't control what can happen in the individual entity or in the single municipality. Of course, there were expectations of reducing contracting stations to a few units, which then became 200, and finally 1,200; it does not matter: the theme is the reversal of the trend towards reduction and greater control. We have also gone towards a limitation of the use of the current design changes, which are then the place, once you win the contract, in order to obtain a higher margin from the companies and perhaps involve in an incorrect, legitimate and legal way the official of this or that administration. We have gone beyond the concept of the maximum reduction; on the other hand, Mr Cioffi himself - as I recall - had months ago in the Commission to say that if a work is contracted for a value of 100 and then it is awarded to 60 or there is someone who has made a mistake in the evaluation of the work or it means that it will be used labour or tools such as not to carry out that work properly. Let's go, therefore, towards the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer measured on the best value for money. I must say, perhaps apart from the approach of Forza Italia and the centre-right, that I would like to stress how we have paid attention to the débat public, to the form of consultation and discussion with the local people. In Italy there is an example, which is that of Emilia-Romagna, in which nothing is done unless they all agree. I understand that, then, we cannot achieve unanimity, but that there is a debate, that there is a majority and that there is a minority, that to some extent respects the majority, I believe is a great example of democracy for a country. I would like to point out, because the subcontractors suffer so much, especially in recent years and especially in the economic crisis, that the possibility of direct payment of subcontractors by the contracting station is envisaged if the contractor does not pay what is due. I still like it to be stressed that companies need to be qualified and that there is easier participation in competitions by virtuous companies, through a reputational rating based on the conduct of the work carried out. Too often it has happened that companies have failed to realize the works and then we have found them to participate in the successive contracts. Then I want to make an assessment of the general contractor, which we discussed with Minister Delrio. Unfortunately, the use by the general contractors of directors of the works appointed by themselves and the habit of delivering the works before and in such a way as to overcome a condition of control, although provided in the code of contracts, by the State and the contracting station (essentially delivering them in a condition of urgency that is not urgent), in fact, exceeded the control and gave the general contractor the possibility to collect for a work that was perhaps not realized in perfect art rule. It is also expected that the national register of competition commissioners will be drawn by lot and, above all, that there will be no accumulation of tasks, which would then lead those professionals, through the recommendations, to operate badly and perhaps - allow me - to subcontract the work to some colleague, perhaps paying it incorrectly. I also like the inclusion of standard costs for works, services and supplies, in order to contain expenditure on public works. Finally, for what has been said about the motorway concessions, while pointing out and emphasizing what Senator Malan of Forza Italia, or my own party, I like that everything that was related to the motorway concessions and the work in house has been reported in the beehive of the obligation to carry out the races, from 60% - plafond that Europe indicated at least - to 80%. Certainly we are not 100%; however, they give twelve to twenty-four months to these dealers in order to "put themselves in line," open the market and allow companies, through normal competition, to participate in the competitions and therefore to be able to win the works. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u52	Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u53	Mr President, Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again I am speaking in this House to stress the importance of this measure, which, once finally adopted, will finally be able to be deployed in its implementing laws and is a fundamental point of the Government's programme that we support. Our country is blocked and systematically shaken by scandals linked to the procurement and corruption that lurks in them. There are many reasons for this, and one is certainly the current legislation, which is cumbersome, difficult and with many exceptions that have followed over time. We have a code which, as I have already said and I would like to repeat here, does not compare with other European realities. I would remind you, for example, that the 2004 European directive, which in our legal system has unfortunately produced the full-bodied 2006 code, has been translated into very few articles in both the English and German legal systems. The text that we are analyzing today returns to the Senate after the examination of the Chamber of Deputies and aims to overcome the situation described. The measure delegates the Government to the transposition of three directives amending the European Union's rules on public procurement and concessions, and to the reordering of the existing national rules on public contracts relating to supplies, works and services. The installation of the measure, although confirmed in its general lines, has been modified with regard to the modalities and the terms of exercise of the delegation, which can take place through two legislative decrees. The first, called decree of transposition of the directives, to be adopted before next 18 April, will be finalized to the implementation of the European directives n. 23, 24 and 25 of 2014 in the matter of public contracts and concessions, while the second, called decree of reorganization, to be adopted before 31 July 2016, will be destined to the total reorganization of the national discipline in force in the matter of public contracts relating to works, services and supplies. However, the power to adopt a single legislative decree by 18 April 2016 remains firm for the Government. The same Government, through Deputy Minister Nencini, present in the Chamber, during the examination in the Commission confirmed the commitment to try to issue a single decree by the date of 18 April 2016. The government is well aware, as we are, of the urgency of the issue for all the operators in the sector because, ladies and gentlemen, this instrument also serves to restart the economy, to support recovery and, consequently, to promote new employment and work. We must not forget that public procurement spending in our country amounts to many percentage points of GDP and not dispersing these resources is therefore a priority task, especially now that we have put an end to that distorted rule of the Stability Pact - as you will recall, this has been done with the last law of stability - which has blocked the realization of public works and investments. In addition, good procurement rules not only have a technical and legal value, but are also a matter of justice. It is necessary to ensure that healthy companies do not suffer unfair competition from other companies that rely on corruption and benefit from the lack of transparency and complexity of the administrative machinery. As I said earlier, the content of the principles and guiding criteria of the measure under consideration has been revised and integrated during work in the House of Deputies. I am referring here to just a few of the elements that I consider to be positive, such as overcoming the objective law. According to the annual report on the state of implementation of the programme by the Chamber of Deputies' Studies Service, in collaboration with the former Authority for the supervision of public contracts and CRESME, after fifteen years of existence of this law, only 8% of the works are completed (we talk about roads, passes, passers-by, ports, etc.). In short, the infrastructures that should serve all Italians have remained in the book of the more or less good intentions. In the text we are about to approve, in fact, the express violation of the provisions of law n. 443 of 2001 (the so-called objective law), with effect from the date of entry into force of the decree of reorganization. Consequently, it is expected that the General Transport and Logistics Plan will be updated and revised, that resources will be reallocated between the works on the basis of the criteria identified in the Multiannual Planning Document, which should include and make coherent the planning and planning of public works investments. Basically, to be simpler, with these new rules we want to establish criteria to overcome the logic of the great proclamations and create rules that lead to a monitoring of the results of the investments and to a verification of their effectiveness, in order also to ensure that the allocated resources are spent in the planned times, starting from the European funds (which today does not always happen). Article 1 (bbb) introduced to the Chamber provides for the revision and rationalization of the abbreviated ritual for administrative judgments concerning measures concerning the procedures for the reliance on public works, services and supplies under the administrative process code (legislative decree No 104 of 2010), while other letters of the measure provide for the introduction of measures, i.e. social clauses, aimed at promoting the employment stability of staff employed in public works and services contracts. What we have tried to have as the cornerstone of our overall work - it was a teamwork between Chamber and Senate - is to obtain a simpler, clearer and more stable framework for national and international operators and those responsible for procurement stations, as well as to make procedures transparent. Indeed, the best rates of growth and attractiveness of investment, as highlighted also by the World Bank, occur in the nations considered capable of carrying out the policies undertaken and having at the same time predictable administrative and judicial behaviors in all senses but also in times (which ensure an adequate fight against crime and corruption). In verifying the adequacy of the texts adopted by the Government as a result of this delegation we will be, in the parliamentary committees - I am part of a committee responsible for this matter - particularly sharp in the control role assigned to us because many of the successes that we will be able to achieve with this new legislation depend precisely on the content of the implementing measures. The measure that we are about to approve - and I conclude - together with the jobs act and the numerous reforms (on justice, public administration, constitutional and electoral reform, all put in place by this Government) represents the best response to the immobilism in which our country had fallen. We must always remember that this Government was born, at the impulse of President Napolitano, to make reforms. With this delegation, which is also a profound reform of the current system we hope therefore to leave to the past the inertia and opacity in the field of public works and to build a new reality, where transparency, accountability and effectiveness - especially effectiveness - of public contracts are the flywheel of the beauty and strength of the small and large productive realities of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u54	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u57	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the debate has been absolutely structured, but there have also been points which I believe should be considered positively. That is why I propose that the matter be referred back to the Commission to be completed in its entirety.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u58	Your proposal may be considered after the replies have been received. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u59	Mr President, I will be brief because I think it is right to leave all the time needed for the Minister to respond to the many requests that have emerged. I just want to make three points. The first relates to the concessions made by Senator Malan, who unfortunately is not here. Meanwhile, Brenner is a rule on which we have worked in this House when approving the text of the delegation law in June. It is a rule that has been built in full and complete compliance with the European directive that we are going to transpose, which leaves space for national governments, for companies that are involved with a very high percentage by public bodies, to be able to make these direct assignments. For the rest, a number of motorway concessions have been mentioned which would have been extended, which does not appear in any act. I would like to remind Senator Malan and his colleagues who have spoken on this point by quoting the Italian decree that thanks to the text that has been fired in this House, which we are debating this evening, we have in fact exceeded Article 5 of the Italian Unlock and we have done so in full and complete harmony between Parliament and the Government. Therefore, the message that is being passed that the Government and Minister Delrio would produce or are producing extensions of concessions is completely false. Then there is the question that for some concessions that are due - I mention two that I know directly: the Turin-Piacenza motorway (A21) and the Turin ring road - is lagging behind the preparation of the call for tenders, but we had foreseen a specific rule of extension, but not of the concession tout court, but an extension with certain times and functional to the preparation of the European ban. I want to say clearly, because it remains in the documents, that with this text of the Procurement Code we have finally exceeded the subject of extensions and have taken on board the European directive which provides for tenders, without prejudice to those few exceptions (the Brenner, in this case) on which, I believe, we have worked, quite rightly, on direct custody with the characteristics envisaged by Europe. One final point I would like to address to Senator De Petris. It is not the House that has inserted the social clause: this was very much in the text and was one of the key points that this House voted unanimously. The House of Deputies has also chosen to extend the social clause to the call centre sector. Of course, I can only agree, it must be borne in mind that the extension of the case-law of the application of the social clause to 100% in the case of the transfer of contracts risks being a rule that will be challenged. We have kept very punctually to European legislation and directives, which provide that in a change between one operator and the other the possibility of a different organization should be recognized, and, among other things, to sentences of the TAR and the Council of State of this country. Therefore, none of us is against the extended social clause in a broad way and no one is going to touch it; it is only to take into account that European directives and judgments have differed from expectations and therefore it will now be up to the Government to take these elements into account when issuing the decrees. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u60	Mr President, allow me first of all to thank the Senate for the work it has done on the occasion of the first drafting of the delegation law, a work followed by Deputy Minister Nencini, whom I thank very much for his constant presence and for the fruitful work carried out in the Commission, which has enabled us today to put to the attention, for the definitive approval by this House, a text which I too consider, as many of you have pointed out, one of the most important reforms for our country. To deal with employment, growth in gross domestic product and the creation of solid enterprises without dealing with public contracts, public works and procurement is obviously an illusion. We all know that public and private investments are the most important engines for the growth of a country because they not only have the direct effect of the amount of the investment itself, but also tend over time - as economists show - to produce positive effects in the economy of a country. Our country is therefore a sick country, in the sense that it has failed to make this engine of development a reality. All public procurement is worth more than 15% of GDP. So, I'm a very important slice. Having put the objective - the Senate, the House and the Government have dealt with the problem in an appropriate way - of a new season in public procurement and public works I believe that it is one of the most important goals that this legislature could give itself; I believe that it goes to all intents and purposes ascribed among the great reforms of this period of government. That is why I appeal to all the political forces that have contributed so decisively to the preparation of this text not to change their minds because the reform is strong, substantial and transversal. In fact, it concerns all businesses, small and large; it concerns the issue of legality, control, simplification and an Italy that finally enters Europe not with baroque standards but adapted to modernity. I believe that this reform must be a common heritage and, therefore, while respecting some of the concerns that have arisen, I believe that everyone's participation in its approval would be very important. We need to fight the reasons that prevented the system of public works and procurement from growing in this country. One of the main reasons is corruption. The role of DAC in this reform - as has been pointed out - is important. It is not a substitute role: nobody takes away the regulatory powers - I say to Senator Cioffi - to the Ministry, which can intervene at any time to regulate, if it considers it appropriate and to clarify. But corruption is one of the key issues. The fight against corruption is profound and is implemented with all the instruments you know best and which have been recalled in this House, starting with the creation of the books, guidelines and supervisory and control powers, which are not substitutes for the political action, strategy, direction and supervision of the Ministry. I'm not at all. It simply plays its full role as supervisory authority on public contracts and on the execution of works. Let us highlight in such a decisive way the fact that corruption was one of the elements that prevented the proper execution of the work. Some people think that ANAC's intervention is slowing down on the execution of the work. Instead, the cases of so close collaboration that we have experienced in recent months both with the Expo and with the MOSE show exactly the opposite, that we can also make a profound fight against corruption and the waste of public money and, at the same time, we can proceed with the right times to carry out the works. The first disease that this country has always had is therefore corruption and I believe that the code really responds to this challenge. The second element is the issue of the excessive cumbersomeness of the rules: more than 650 articles were composed of the contract code and the implementing regulation (which, moreover, was implemented ten years after the adoption of the contract code). On the other hand, we have the issue of having a single legislative decree to reorder, which also contains the transposition of European directives, as has been mentioned by many of you. We propose to do so in a few months, by the middle of April. It is a very strong ambition that stems from the desire to drastically simplify the picture. There's been too much uncertainty. Senator Cantini has rightly recalled that international investors - most of the investments in a country are made by external investors and Italy has a very low ability to attract, even if this trend is fortunately reversing - need simple and clear rules and very simplified contracts, because this happens in all countries. Investors can only be attracted in the presence of a very strong simplification, that is, a very strong ability to adapt to European standards. Therefore, the transposition of directives, together with the reordering decree, will address in a very important way - and, of course, also with some difficulty - the issue of minimizing the articles that rearrange the system of public contracts as a whole. The third element that prevented the country from growing in this sector is certainly the lack of effectiveness of interventions, which may depend on various factors, one of which is the lack of competition, as Senator Malan said (I am sorry that he is not present at this time in the Chamber). The issue of competition has been referred to several times. The lack of effectiveness in the execution of the works also depends on the fact that untrustworthy preliminary projects have been submitted. It seems to me that the lack of effectiveness is also due to the fact that, in a very clear way, it has been preferred to overcome the difficulties in the execution of public works through derogation procedures. From this point of view I am very pleased with the work we have all done together, in recent months, because I believe that this is a revolution of normality. Senator Crosio of the Northern League has expressed many doubts about the fact that, by removing the objective law, the works can be performed and that there is a certainty in their execution; I think exactly the opposite. I cannot say exactly how precise the definition of President Canton, which I share, is that the objective law is a criminal law: he has more elements than I do to say it. Even if it were not criminal - which I share, I repeat - it certainly was ineffective. The derogation procedures have not served this country and the facts show it, not the chatter. A few days ago there was a controversy, by some exponent of the entrepreneurship of a Southern Region, who claimed that we would cancel funding provided for in the objective law, but these financings simply do not exist, there are not. There have been promises, chatter, inability to plan and select works useful to the territory, lack of transparent timetables available to the citizens and public debate on whether a work is really useful or not. I really believe that overcoming the objective law is good for the country and for the execution of the works. The problem is therefore not to rely on special procedures, to do normal things, but to rely on normal procedures to do even special things: this is the real theme. This is what we do all over the world and this can be done by simplifying procedures, giving time to service conferences and trying to give centrality to the project. This code gives centrality to the project, to the reliability of the enterprises - we want more serious enterprises, accredited and registered in albi - and to the fact that the selection of the works and the contest commissions are made in a transparent way. Then, one after the other, all the arguments that have contributed to a long series of failures are dealt with. The same applies to the issue of competition, which was called for. We did the races and I'm sorry that Senator Malan is not here: if he were here, I would remind him that we are doing the races. We did the races for Centropadane and for the South Highways Company and we are winning. We simply give dealers the same rights that they have throughout Europe: across Europe there can be concessions entrusted to them in house, if they are involved in a certain way by public bodies, and therefore with a particular procedure, or are put to tender, but it is clear that the basic choice remains to adapt ourselves in a strict manner to the procedures that Europe recommends and that are common to all. It is clear that, when these proposals are made, they do not make gifts, but they follow the rules of the European directives. There's no gift. We're not extending any concessions. I don't know what you're referring to. There is no mystery in the extensions that have been carried out: I seem to remember that on the motorway route Brescia-Padova the extension was two years, from 13 June 2013 to 13 June 2015. We have not extended anything, simply there is the iter of Valdastico that is continuing, so there is no secret act. The choice to do everything in maximum transparency and taking into account everything that is decided, of which are the contractual terms proposed also in the entrusts in house is a key choice of the Ministry, therefore I cannot understand the arguments that have been brought in this direction. In our opinion, this choice that we are making and that we have made together, this important and incisive work that Parliament does together will really guarantee the country a new season and I believe that the senators will be able to see something of this season in the results of public investments in 2015. We have increased the invitations to tender in general and in school construction in particular; we have shared the work on most of the calls for tenders relating to the fight against hydrogeological failure; RFI has increased its investment by 30%; we have more than doubled investment at airports. We decided to choose a few works, to select them, to focus on those and to agree together with the Regions and local authorities (because we have been doing a job for months on this topic) the programmatic plan of the most useful works for the territory with common responsibilities, with co-financing, assuming responsibility not to bring in our communities unlikely and endless lists for having no one against. It has been said by Senator Gibiino that in Emilia-Romagna works are done by finding the agreement of all. It is not true: in Emilia-Romagna there is much discussion and many remain opposed, but the same is true because it is right that the debate does not involve a blockade. The public debate does not mean blocking the works, but trying to obtain the maximum of consent, sharing, transparency on the data that the construction of a work involves; therefore, there is a reasoning of involvement with the intelligence of the local communities, but it is not an instrument with which the works are blocked and not even an instrument with which a unanimous consent is obtained, because this is impossible. Anyone who builds a road knows that it is impossible to have a unanimous consensus on a work, it is just impossible. We therefore believe that we are inspired by these principles of simplicity, transparency, the fight against lawlessness and also of great alliance with the territories. Of course, Italy assumes the responsibility to say that its great strategic works, the railway tunnels, the corridors on which the goods must travel (no longer by road but by iron), the large ports, the great infrastructures, the metropolitan infrastructures of our cities are strategic works, because they are part of the answers that make a country competitive. There is also a whole series of works that we are planning, planning and unlocking together with the regions and local authorities that concern the well-being of communities at a lower level. All the works that had been started, which have funding and utility for the country are not stopped. I don't know what Senator Crosio is referring to, but we can gladly examine one after the other the hundreds of works he's afraid of losing. I do not think any work has been lost; the work on the yards is proceeding, so I believe that really we with this recipe can make a great contribution to the economy of the country, as well as to its credibility. We have large companies that operate abroad and do so without making great variations even on large jobs. I was recently in a European shipyard outside our country where there is an Italian company that works and there are no reservations. Why? The answer is as follows: because there is a serious relationship between the state that makes the state, that first decides the rules and then, if there is an unexpected, we evaluate it together. It is not that the day after the construction site is opened ten lawyers are hired and hundreds of millions of reserves are left. Companies in Italy now work more with lawyers than with engineers. We would like to return to make sure that our companies work in Italy with the certainty of the rules (simple and reliable rules), in full transparency, with the certainty for the workers who operate there, with the clear commitment to respect the times and the modalities on which it was agreed at the beginning. This is the theme. You cannot have a relationship with public works as if they were a bank counter where from time to time one can enter, type and take what he needs at his discretion. It's not like that. In order to achieve this, I believe that the right recipe is to focus on: project centrality, quality of business, simplification of standards, adaptation to European regulations, structuring and attraction of private capital. I really believe that the discussion of these hours will bring good news not only to those who deal with procurement, but also to the whole economy of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u63	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask you not to go over the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u64	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the debate on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u67	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would just like to say that we are in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u70	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u71	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles made by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u72	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-557.ana.u73	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 13 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.52.
