ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that tomorrow's afternoon sitting will end at 12.30 a.m. at the request of a parliamentary group. [[Brusio]] Colleagues, please listen because this communication is of interest to everyone as it concerns our activities. By the way, it's hard to use your voice. I also inform you that at the afternoon Question Time sitting, the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Dario Franceschini, will answer questions on the following subjects: organizational arrangements of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism as well as supervised bodies; initiatives for the promotion of cultural tourism.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2389.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u8	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business, first on order and then on disorder. Madam President, you have read the amendments and their admissibility on the amendments to the articles of the Decree-Law; I do not believe - if I have not heard correctly - that I have yet heard the opinion on the amendments to the draft law of conversion, which I do not believe have yet been made. Compared to this, I find it difficult - and I think it is worth the President's interest in the extent of the problem - on Amendment x1.2 (correct text), which was adopted by the Commissions. As you teach me, Madam President, the eligibility and content of a decree-law has been established by a number of judgments of the Constitutional Court, to the extent that they have been constitutionalized in the reform, which I hope will still be rejected in the referendum. We have already found the admissibility of an amendment on the extension of a term with respect to the legislative decree (there is some precedent, unfortunately also due to some new colleague of ours); but what seems unlikely to me is that an amendment is accepted, of an absolutely ordinamental nature, which gives rise to an autonomous foundation, called Fondazione dei Corpi della Croce Rossa italiana; after which the writing of the statute, which is expected to be the ordinamental aspect, which are the governing bodies, which is the heritage and which is the staff, to the point that the alienity of the matter is such that there is a consequence, to the title of the bill add, in the end, the following words: ". Constitution of the Fondazione dei Corpi della Croce Rossa Italiana" (Foundation of the Bodies of the Italian Red Cross). I do not know what is necessary, urgent and consistent with the rest of the content. I really ask you, Madam President, to make a thorough assessment and, if so, to consult the President, because if these are the principles for which you take the title, you change it and, consequently, you can put everything in, you might as well close the shop. I take advantage of the fact that I have the floor and that they still have to spend the 20 minutes for notice. As I could not intervene this morning on the famous amendment 4,200, then withdrawn, I tried to inform myself about the presenter and found out that it is the Government itself, that presents it and also attachs the technical report, from which the content of this amendment is highlighted: the transfer to... PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Calderoli, you had the floor on the order of business; we are talking about an amendment that is no longer under discussion. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). But it is precisely to stimulate the reflection of the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's pedagogical, then. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I think, in fact, it was a silly thing to have presented it and a silly thing to have completely withdrawn it. I can understand the part where four cars are assigned. On the brand and the model I have some concerns: two BMW 3018 injection and two Volkswagen Passat 2.8; perhaps for Somalia I would have thought of something more off-road; but the fact that we were trying to predict the telephone interceptions of terrorists... PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Calderoli, but this is a debate that we have already concluded, since it is an amendment that has already been discussed and withdrawn. I would not like to reopen the debate on a subject which has already been dealt with. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). If you want, let us pass the twenty minutes by suspending the sitting and then take the floor again on another amendment; you decide. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not like you talk much. You are talking about amendment 4,200, which has been withdrawn, so I do not see why you should take the floor. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Because the government, if you like, can table an amendment at any stage of the discussion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But I'm not sure you introduced him. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I can also urge him to do so, if necessary. Either he believed it before or he didn't believe it, so he can do it. I am very convinced that the assignment of four cars for interception of terrorism was necessary, urgent and useful. Just as unacceptable is letter b), which was well done by the rapporteurs to withdraw, but which I am going to specify because in the technical report there is also that: "In particular 16 musical instruments per band, of which four filicorns, four trombones, a sax, a trumpet, a flute and five clarinets". Madam President, this bill distributes everything more: two snow sweeps and a salt dispenser for Herat; 10,000 waterproofs for Lebanon, 2,000 for Iraq, 12 outboards, three trailers, an ambulance, four dinghy, three helicopters, ships and patrol boats, more than anything else. The meaning is simple: with the decree-law we were looking for votes for the UN seat, to the point that yesterday morning we also paid tribute to the voters of the coffee machines to make tricolored coffee and a box of chocolates. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Now, given the results and contents of the amendment, we went to play and were trumpeted. This is the summary of what I just said. However, Madam President, the proactive part of my speech with respect to the Government is that if you want to review - we are still on the point - the possibility of assigning those means, that is fine, except that then you have to establish in Somalia which are the terrorists and which are not. Let us take it as a good thing, and instead I give you the task, which seems to me quite obvious, of declaring that amendment inadmissible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u9	Senator Calderoli, thank you for distributing tasks to everyone, to the Presidency and to the Government; we can now proceed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,100/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u12	Tarquinio (CoR). Madam President, I would like to say that Amendment No 4,100 raises many concerns and concerns. It is disconcerting to see Egypt (or the Arab Republic of Egypt, as it is written) excluded from the supply of spare parts for the Egyptian F-16; considering its role in the fight against terrorism and the fact that it is still an ally of us and of NATO, I consider it a dangerous and useless act, I do not use other terms. The only thing that surprises me is that it was presented by Senator Sangalli, of whom I have a huge personal and political esteem, but I'm sure it's not flour from his sack. It's a serious problem. We don't know what we're dealing with. We risk seriously, because of such nonsense, breaking our relations with a neighbouring and important country and all this with the motivation to give a message regarding the case. I consider it improper and above all out of date, because it seems to me that the collaboration in place between the Egyptian and Italian prosecutors is still in progress; the story Regeni is all to write and to see however disturbing and dangerous, but it has absolutely nothing to do with it. However, I would like to say that I note that an important and politically relevant fact has taken place. For the first time we are seeing something important: the government - gentlemen, it is an event - is returning to this House, which has never happened. If he had returned to the House for constitutional reform, electoral law and so many other measures, we would certainly have found ourselves living better things than we live. Of course I say this knowing very well that the Government has wanted this type of amendment, even if it makes it pass through a will of the majority senators present in this House. It's a funny thing to say. The amendment envisages going back to the original draft prepared by the Government, which I call on you to stick to, otherwise we fall into ridicule and risk serious things. I'm shocked to see how you play on such delicate topics for nothing. This says a lot about improvisation and the way in which this government and this majority are represented. In the explanation of vote we will talk about everything else and improvisation. We are talking about something important and crucial, namely commitments. Italian foreign policy is treated like a three-money thing, like a joke. We are not realizing what has happened and the seriousness of a subject like this. Such delicate foreign policy problems would have deserved, with all due respect for the Undersecretaries, at least the presence of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The subject is very sensitive. Perhaps because it is little the reaction can often be not the desired one. Let's not forget what kind of government there is. Certainly this is better than that of the Muslim Brotherhood. That's the real thing. Therefore, we put back to the evaluation of the Assembly in all serenity and freedom the possibility to return the text to the first draft presented by the Government. For all the rest, we will discuss this in the overall explanation of vote on the draft law. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u15	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I would like to thank the Government for its wisdom in returning to this House. It will be instrumental, but we would like to understand the area in which we are moving. I understand the pain of family members, but I understand less when they come to the European Parliament and call for the Member States' ambassadors from Egypt, Egypt's declaration as a unsafe country, the suspension of readmission agreements, inter-force agreements, the suspension of arms supply agreements, economic agreements and the withdrawal of ambassadors. In the face of these positions understandable for the pain felt, we are now debating an amendment that does not marry these extreme arguments, even if in essence this is so because we are imposing a sanction on Egypt. We take one of these points and in political, diplomatic and cultural terms we apply a sanction to Egypt. Let us send a message of the kind: dear Egyptians, since we do not think you cooperate, as you should, in the case of Regens, we make you miss the exchanges of arms and planes with which you, our allies, fight terrorism. This is the message we give. We have talked about musical instruments, but there are perhaps more important issues of foreign policy and Mr Gasparri mentioned them. We are struggling with problems of this kind. Yesterday we had the message of the President of the Senate, the President of the House and the President of the Republic to remove opacity and shadow situations of a fact that happened 36 years ago that cost us 81 deaths. There is a victim in Egypt; there are 81 victims in the case of DC-9. Who should remove this opacity? I ask the Head of State, the President of the Senate and the President of the House. Maybe the institutions! In these three days we have seen on state television a shameful and obscene repetition of lies and slander already denied by the trials on the missile and the aerial battle. All this means that our American and French allies are liars and hoodies. Perhaps Parliament does not know, but I have spoken of it as a Minister, as an Italian Government and no one has denied me. Clinton wrote a personal letter to the President of the Council, Giuliano Amato. Chirac wrote a personal letter in which they called out the United States and France from that affair. They've responded 70 times to our interrogations. So, excuse me, if we continue, in the collective imagination, on state TV, in Bologna, in the screenplays, to say that we were killed 81 people, because when the President of the Council met Hollande or when he met Obama, or when our Foreign Minister meets the Foreign Ministers of other countries, is there no reason for this accusation? I'm going over there. Mr Gasparri has rightly said that we have been able to see acts that, after being desecrated, have been identified with the symbol of "secretissimo" and "secreto", so we are aware of issues of vital importance to write the truth about facts of terrorism that cost the lives of 81 people, but neither the Italian Parliament nor historians can learn about it because those who disclose what they read in those papers risk three years in prison. What, then, is national credibility? With what authority do we turn to Egypt saying that we apply the sanction and no longer supply spare parts when we ourselves, against the Italians, after thirty-six years hide behind the secret? Every year there are these solemn appeals, repeated: against all conveniences we must come to discover the truth. But to whom do we ask the truth? I know it was a bomb, everyone knows it, the Foreign Minister knows it, the Minister of Defence. Of course they don't go ridiculing themselves with the Americans and the French with the history of the air battle. There are reports never denied by anyone: thousands of pages of reports that demonstrate the bomb on board. But let's forget about the credit. We want the truth: on the case of Regeni, on Ustica, but we want the secret to be removed from these acts, otherwise what truth do we want? In this way we mock the high summits of the State and they mock the Italians, if every year again there is this tired ritual about the vital need to get to discover the truth about such bloody and serious facts. What is the result of this sudden initiative of ours? Do you think that at international level it goes unnoticed - to ISIS, terrorist groups, in the Middle East - as far as Egypt is doing (see what happened yesterday in Istanbul, Paris or Brussels), that Italy has already determined that the fault of the assassination of poor Regens is the Egyptian Government? We have already condemned them because when we put the sanctions and say that we no longer provide them with spare parts, we have already defined who is the killer or who covers the murder: al-Sisi. The Italian Parliament has already established that they are our enemies, they are the ones who killed one of our citizens. Do you think that an amendment of this kind does not go around the world, that it is not a sign of weakness and surrender? To who? What are you doing? Who can please an amendment of this kind which deprives our allies of the possibility of intervening to defend us too? Mr Gasparri rightly reminded us: terrorism wants to bring Tunisia and Egypt to its knees from an economic point of view; tourists no longer go. It is clear that it risks becoming a further powder keg because Egypt can also blow up after Libya. After that, I would like to see with a country of 80 million inhabitants in chaos, how we solve the problem of immigration. The government has returned to the Assembly. I would ask the rapporteurs to have the wisdom - not for trombones or trumpets or musical instruments - to withdraw this amendment for a matter of national security, for a matter of coherence. For once, we have a real debate about secrets, massacres, Ustica. Undersecretary Rossi, I have presented many questions. Why doesn't the government come and tell us what happened on Ustica? Why doesn't he tell us not the lies that the TG2 or Purgators tell us, already torn apart by a flood of sentences, and he continues to repeat the Libyan MIG that fell fifteen days earlier? These are things that are neither in heaven nor on earth! Why doesn't the government come up against Parliament? Why don't you come here and say what you know or what you don't know? Why don't you take away the secret or the secret on those acts and let us judge and discover the truth? [[Comments of Senator Fornaro]] We cannot turn on the Egyptians those who are our flaws. These attitudes - let me say this - are indecorous both for the institutions and for the Italians. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), FI-PdL XVII and LNP-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u18	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I stick to the substance of this issue and I agree with what Senator Giovanardi has just said. Intransigence is needed towards everyone - American, French and Egyptian - and not in stages. The harshness against Egypt would take us on other floors. There are ENI agreements and economic agreements and, therefore, if we wanted to give answers we would have an infinite field, but I see that some issues are not touched on. I know that there are concerns in the majority and in the government as well. As has been mentioned, the Government has returned to the Assembly. By the way, I'd like to say something uncontroversial. A short while ago, during the break of our work, I was in the office and I saw that Minister Pinotti, who often attends the sessions as a member of the Senate, is today in Rome and took part in the question time in the Chamber of Deputies. Not to underestimate the role of Undersecretary Rossi, but I would be interested to hear what the Minister thinks about relations with Egypt. We are in fact voting on a kind of military sanction against Egypt, which will be voted on as part of an international mission measure. I would like to know what the Minister's assessments and concerns are. If the will is to make a call to Egypt on the need for transparency on the case of the Regens, the Senate of the Republic has a thousand ways to discuss motions and other initiatives. Why not? I don't have to give anyone any advice. No one needs it, as we all know the Senate Rules. It can be discussed in its own ways in order to make a warning or a call that gives greater solemnity to the action of Italy. During this morning's sitting I already recalled that the prosecutor of the Republic of Rome went to Egypt and there were important diplomatic gestures (I remember the ambassador's call). At a time of terrorist offensive, approving an amendment on the spare parts of Egyptian aircraft does not seem to us to be a particularly wise and constructive attitude, as terrorism and fundamentalism at this stage are enemies of both ours and Egypt, net of the so-called Arab Springs and all that has happened in Libya and Egypt. To understand this it is not necessary to retrace the history of recent years. Then there are all the other considerations about the secrets that you keep and those that you want to remove. We want to teach Egypt while we do not apply transparency in our home to acts that are kept secret thirty-six years later. So it could be said that everyone has to look at the beam in their own eye. In terms of security and diplomatic and military relations, our Parliament, our Government and our institutions are in a position, using the appropriate instruments, to launch all the necessary warnings and calls to protect our national dignity and the need for truth. I am sorry that Senator Giuseppe Esposito is not present, which I mentioned this morning, who made statements that appeared in the newspapers (but I suppose he also spoke about it in COPASIR, of which my party is not a member). It may be that about Cambridge and the places that have prompted Regens to do research, they know more about it than they said in the newspapers. However, we are talking about the fight against terrorism. When it comes to condemning certain behaviors, we can schedule motions the day after tomorrow and discuss in Parliament what we believe is due to the truth about the case of the Regeni, which belongs to everyone and not only to his family (who obviously cares more about this affair than others). We must be careful, however, because the political, strategic and military error made with this amendment is very serious for the credibility of Italy, which is not very strong because we also received all these votes in the UN yesterday and last night. The amendment tabled by Senator Tarquinio, which we have also signed, calls for the avoidance of a mistake. I shall end by appealing to the rapporteurs, President Latorre and President Zanda. President Zanda, many times the majority and the government appeal to minorities (as we are at this stage) to turn an amendment proposal into an agenda. In this case, I do not have the power to do so, but I would make a similar invitation: let us study a parliamentary instrument which, without damaging bilateral relations and security, sends a warning. This would perhaps be a more useful and appropriate tool. For these reasons, I would like to announce that my group will vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u21	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, Senator Santangelo will do after the explanation of vote. I intervene to better understand. I also put this question to the Secretary of State in the Defence Committee, and I still have no answer. I'd like to understand the extent of this donation for the president. Senator Marton, your speech is on the subject. MARTON (M5S). Yes, it is because, following what my colleagues have said, my Group can change the explanation of vote. We are talking about a decree-law of which I do not know the quantity and value of the spare parts established, which may have already been delivered because a decree-law has force of law when it is issued. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. A Senator from his Group will speak on this amendment, Senator Marton. MARTON (M5S). But I would like an answer, Madam President, because then Senator Santangelo will make an explanation of vote also on the basis of this clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u22	There is no government intervention at this stage, Senator Marton. There was a discussion and in the explanation of the amendments to the article he could ask for these elements.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u25	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would also like to repeat the question put by Mr Marton to the Government. It is important to have this clarification, not only for the 5 Star Movement Group, but for all of us, so as to have a specific weight of the amounts that are being treated. In this specific case, the 5 Star Movement declares its vote in favour of amendment 4,100/1, for reasons slightly different from those that colleagues previously pointed out. We agree in part with the speech made by Senator Tarquinio: this is an important action not so much towards specific Egypt but towards all those countries that do not respect human rights. It is not by chance that there has been a very broad debate in the Commission on this point. We have tabled sub-amendment 4,100/2, on which there had even been a rewording in the Commission; after that we had been proposed to table an agenda; then we agreed that this agenda would come to this House. So, Madam President, I am addressing you: probably, in the wording of the amendment that came to this House, something was wrong and therefore it was declared inadmissible. In this particular case, the amendment says that it does not authorise free transfers of arms and weapons systems for the benefit of countries whose laws and governments violate human rights or train and use minors in combat. So this thing specifically doesn't just apply to Egypt, but it kind of extends to everyone. So that this thing, on which we all agreed, can find a minimum commitment from the Government, I ask, if possible, to deliver this agenda, that the Government and the rapporteurs will assess the substance, so that this trace can remain. I believe, colleagues, that this can be a useful solution for everyone. In this particular case, we cannot help but say that the case of Regeni for Italy has represented and represents something unheard of and very serious. As there is still no clarity on this matter today, the supply of these spare parts is stopped; I believe that this was the purpose of the amendment; it is not said that they serve to combat terrorism, because this is not specified and we will not go to see if those planes that will rise in flight will be used to fight terrorism or to carry out other military actions by Egypt. I believe it is right not to send them to Egypt, as well as to other places. Therefore - and I am about to conclude - I am putting this agenda and putting it to the attention of the Government, hoping for its adoption, and I am voting in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u26	Since inadmissibility is not out of the question, but because it is not related to the text of the amendment, you can perfectly turn it into an agenda, Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u28	Senator Marton, I'm sorry, I can't give you the floor. The government will have the floor at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u29	I call on you to speak only on the order of business, Senator Marton. MARTON (M5S). Madam President, we are speaking at this time of 4100/1. Do you tell me what the effects are in case of your approval? Are there any other amendments? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marton, this is a sub-amendment, so nothing lapses.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u32	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would also like to speak in order to try to clarify the situation in which there is a great risk of confusion. We shall vote against Amendment No 4,100/1 and, consequently, for Amendment No 4,100 of the Commissions meeting, which incorporates my Amendment No 4.5, also because the two amendments are quite opposite and say exactly two things inverse. Clearly, if we vote in favour of one, we must vote against the other, and vice versa. We shall vote against Amendment No 4,100/1 and in favour of Amendment No 4,100 of the Commissions together because we believe that it is right to take note of the situation that has occurred over the last few months. I would like to remind my colleagues that it is not that with this amendment we risk creating a crisis situation with Egypt: we are already in a crisis situation with Egypt, so much so that - I remind someone who has forgotten it - we have withdrawn the ambassador. It is not something that is normally done, it obviously alludes to extraordinary circumstances and makes us understand the extent of the problem we are talking about. I too had tabled a similar amendment which was, in fact, a concrete political signal in addition to the many things we have said over the last few months, and I believe that it is absolutely necessary for this Parliament to do so. However, I would like to add another reflection, and I also say this to Senator Tarquinio with whom I often speak positively, but with whom in this case, as we understand, I disagree. I would like to try to deny an element of propaganda that is being told, the one according to which the vote of this Parliament in favour of the amendment of the Commissions would mean putting the Arab Republic of Egypt in a position not to be able to sufficiently combat ISIS and that Italy, not providing this support to Egypt, would not fully grasp the importance of the battle against terrorism that that country is doing. Madam President, unfortunately, the facts are a little different from what has been said, because these F-16 aircraft supplied to the Egyptian military forces happen that in the past months they have not been used mainly to attack the Daesh stations but, as my parliamentary group has said on several occasions also by presenting parliamentary questions in this regard, in particular to attack Yemen and Syria through unilateral military operations that Egypt has done, not authorized by the United Nations, which, moreover, have killed thousands of civilians in the past months. I am referring to the specific case of the operation called "Decisive Storm" launched on 25 March 2015 by Saudi Arabia to fight in Yemen the Shiite militias of Yemen which, being Shiite, are evidently closer to Iran; but I remember that they are exactly those who fought Al Qaeda militias in that area of the world. Maybe these Egyptian F-16s we're talking about were simply engaged in the fight against Daesh. On the contrary, sometimes, very often, as you can see, they are used for non-conventional missions, not covered by the UN, but also with the frequent use of the so-called cluster bombs banned by the Dublin Convention. So it seems to me that this amendment opens up a world. It opens us up to the possibility of seriously discussing, when we ensure military supplies and logistical support, who are the subjects to which they are supplied and what happens in the countries to which we are addressing. Therefore, I repeat our vote against amendment 4,100/1 and in favour of amendment 4,100, of the Commissions meeting. [[Senator Mauro Mario points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u35	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I will of course give the floor to Senator Mario Mauro immediately. But Senator Mario Mauro and I are part of the same group and you didn't let me speak when I asked for the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have now given the floor because I understood that you wanted to speak immediately on the order of business. Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Did you understand that Senator Mauro wanted to speak on the order of business? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I'm talking about you, Senator Quagliariello. He asked to speak and I imagined he wanted to speak on the order of business. If you don't, I'll take your word off and give it to Senator Mario Mauro. Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I would like to know why, if only one Senator per Group can speak, Senator Mario Mauro can speak and not me. If there is a personal matter, please tell me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u36	Senator Quagliariello, the point is that there is a great mobility of the Groups in this House and this has not been reported to me. I therefore take the floor to Senator Mario Mauro, who cannot intervene, belonging himself to Senator Giovanardi's Group. I'm sorry, but I didn't catch this element. There is no personal matter with Senator Quagliariello.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u38	Senator Caliendo, Senator Gasparri has already spoken in an explanation of vote for his Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u39	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mine is an intervention on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore have the floor. However, if you speak on the subject, I will take your word for it, because you cannot get around the bond. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I have to ask the government a question so I can vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll give you a minute to ask the question. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to draw the Secretary's attention. The technical relationship to the decree-law specifies that paragraph 6 refers both to the supplies referred to in point (a) and to those referred to in point (b). It further specifies that there is no new or increased burden on public finance, since it is already authorised by previous measures to extend international missions. It concludes that the provision does not entail any new or higher charges for public finance because, where charges for purchase, reconditioning or national transport were provided to the places of departure, the related expenses were already incurred in 2015, remaining for the year 2016 only the actual transfer of the materials subject to the disposals in question to the final destination. Madam President, it is written here that points (a) and (b) have already been implemented and must only go to destination. That's what the government tells me. I want to vote according to what the government says. What is the reality? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The government will intervene at the end of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u42	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am confusing and I apologise. I didn't understand why you didn't give the floor to Senator Quagliariello and Senator Mario Mauro, and then give it to the esteemed friend, Mr Caliendo, who did a speech. Madam President, this House needs fairness. And you cannot justify the fact that there have been "movements," because it seems to me that you have made a couple too. So, the confusion could be ours, too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't criticize this. I just said it wasn't reported to me. VOLPI (LN-Aut). President. - My colleague, Mr Divina, will now ask for an explanation of vote. I would like to know if I can also speak, pretending that it is an intervention on the order of business and then making a statement on the substance. If you use it like that, I'll adjust.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u45	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, we do not have the certainty that we have heard in this House in the various speeches, but we have, on the other hand, many concerns. We know that the F-16s have been substantially abandoned and that we have spare parts for storage. We understand perfectly the motivations of those who say that in this historical moment it is good to maintain relations with the Egyptian Republic. Probably, despite some friction linked to recent events - which we all know - between Italy and Egypt, it is good that the strategic position covered by Egypt is not in contrast, but indeed in harmony with the foreign policy positions of Europe and our country. Given this, in our view, arming or supplying parts of aircraft - whether they are hunting or bombing aircraft - to a state which is not yet fully stabilized undoubtedly poses risks. We look no longer like a static photo, but like a film, what has Egypt been in the last four years, in which it has changed three regimes and three governments: it has removed Mubarak and the first elections have been won by a party expression of the Muslim Brotherhood; the first President to replace Mubarak was Morsi. Then there was the coup d'état of the military and today we have a government chaired by al-Sisi, which can give us relative guarantee of stability. Is it over? No. The photograph is over, but the film continues. Can we trust a state, a government that has had this kind of alternation? And our question is: do we risk arming and offering equipment to countries that are all but stable, ergo tomorrow could be used for exactly opposite purposes to what we think we are getting today? With these premises, we reaffirm that we have everything but certainties: we do not feel that we are sinking this tendency to bilateral relations with Egypt, nor to endorse the supply of arms to governments and regimes that are all but stable. Therefore, on behalf of the Lega Nord Group, I am voting in favour of sub-amendment 4,100/1. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u46	Senator Caliendo, don't distract the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u47	Does the government representative intend to intervene? He nods no.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u50	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, just now in my explanation of vote I have probably expressed myself incorrectly. I make it clear, so that it remains in the minutes, that on Senator Tarquinio's sub-amendment 4,100/1 the vote of the 5 Star Movement Group will be against, while it will be in favour of amendment 4,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u52	Excuse me, Senator Compagna, but you cannot speak because you are part of the same group as Senator Tarquinio, who has already spoken in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u53	Comrade (CoR). I don't insist, but it seemed to me that Senator Tarquinio intervened to illustrate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u54	No, the stage of the illustration has already run out. He spoke in an explanation of vote. I'm sorry. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,100/1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Can you explain what you said? Because otherwise I can't vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caliendo, the government is not obliged to intervene. You asked a question and didn't get an answer. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). It wasn't an intervention. I want to know what we're voting on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are voting on Amendment 4,100/1. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I cannot vote if you or the Government do not tell me what we are voting on, since the report says something different. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100/1, tabled by Senator Tarquinio and other senators. (The vote was followed). [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group.]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I can't vote. I am prevented from voting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4,100/2 is inadmissible. I note that the G4.1002 agenda has been presented, on which the Government will then give its opinion. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u56	You have it, Senator Quagliariello.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u57	I would remind you, however, that if you have asked to speak in an explanation of vote, Senator Mauro will have to give up his speech. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). What if he's in dissension? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you disagree, you'll tell me, Senator Calderoli. Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I was somewhat hesitant in Mr Sangalli's voice when he proposed this amendment. I understand your embarrassment and, in some way, mine is a declaration of solidarity in your regard. In fact, this amendment has tried to camouflage as a choice, let us say, secondary and in some way accessory to one of the fundamental points of this debate. In this Parliament, in fact, we are in danger of discussing a fundamental choice of defence and foreign policy by making it a matter of spare parts. That's the truth. We have three problems, not big but huge, each of which deserves a specific parliamentary debate. On the one hand, we have the tragedy of a young man, who was perhaps sent with a little recklessness to do a doctoral thesis and to go into matters of some complexity. Then we have a situation, that of North Africa, which should be retraced more deeply. But let's just say one thing, Mr President, we have all witnessed the enthusiasm caused by the so-called Arab Springs and then we have also witnessed the dramatic situations that foreign policy, which was obviously - let's say so - a little rough, has determined. We have also had confidence in how difficult it is to export democracy and, above all, our model of democracy, always admitting that democracy is the least bad regime and able to give more stability to governments. In that region, Egypt was one of the few countries that found its stability and a government that stood up to the risk of a religious regime, let's say, that would eliminate not only democracy but also secularism in political confrontation. Then, alongside this, we have a third problem - these are three related problems - that is, we know perfectly well how deep the work of the services diverted to countries already unstable. We therefore have an objective doubt about how they are operating and have operated those services in Egypt to destabilize one of the few stable bridgeheads left in the area. This Parliament must decide whether these three problems are related to each other and whether it wants to link the drama of Regeni with the situation in Egypt, without knowing what the secret services were doing, or whether these problems maintain a dramatic autonomy. In the latter case, a serious Parliament does not make even remotely an amendment, such as the one that has been tabled, to create a connection of which it is not certain and to operate, in marginal terms, a choice of foreign policy which, on the other hand, is fundamental and which would in any case need another debate and another responsibility on the part of the Government; not look at the cards and a bit of distraction, downloading a choice of this magnitude to the poor rapporteur in turn. [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] That is what the seriousness of a debate like this would have meant, and that is why, Madam President, I am calling for seriousness. The withdrawal of this amendment and its replacement by an agenda, on which there can be the completeness of a vote by Parliament and perhaps also unanimity, which puts things in order, without forcing and undue links, would be the most honorable thing to do. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u60	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I repeat my vote in favour of this amendment for the reasons that have already been expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u63	Comrade (CoR). Madam President, there is no question of the seriousness, fairness or competence of Mr Sangalli. However, in the light of how the debate has developed - and I apologise for being additional in wanting to put me first in an explanation of vote in favour of Senator Tarquinio's sub-amendment - I am now taking the floor, perhaps more specifically on the order of business, to express my doubts and my vote against the amendment by Senator Sangalli. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Why are you intervening in the order of business? You have the right to make an explanation of vote. Comrade (CoR). I'm doing it. My statement is against this amendment. Like Senator Quagliariello, I would also like Senator Sangalli to withdraw this amendment and, strong of this withdrawal, to arrive at the solution which, in perfect good faith, I believe had alluded to Mr Santangelo about his sub-amendment, which later became an agenda. Why? There are reasons for not extending to a matter of fundamental spare parts choices of international politics; but I believe, if Senator Quagliariello allows me, that there is something more: there is the dignity of a conception of doctrine of the State. States are not criminal associations, ever since St. Augustine wondered what they were, about the pirate, who was such because he did it with a small ship. States are not criminal associations and do not, among their instruments, have allusion, resentment and animosity, transferred without assuming the responsibility of the highest level of government on the issues of spare parts, with all the respect they deserve. Moreover, when Senator Caliendo mentioned in what terms the Renzi Government (which could have honored the Senate of the presence, if not of the President of the Council, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence) read that small passage of the accompanying report to its own text, he showed how cynically and lightly this amendment was proposed. There is no cynicism and there is no lightness, because I am sure that my colleague, Mr Sangalli, has prevailed over considerations relating to the Geni affair (considerations that honor him), but parliamentaryism is above all a sense of distinction. The respect for the pain of the Regeni family, precisely the respect for the dignity that led the Italian Government to withdraw its ambassador at a certain stage, meant that the issues were not superimposed and even if an amendment on spare parts could subvert any other parliamentary decision on international policy, the fight against terrorism, of our conception of the State. Of course, human rights are important, they are sacred, but human rights are a trend; if we were to put ourselves on the cards on those who are truly respectful of the human rights code by means of amendments on spare parts, we would fall back to that age when the philosophy of the law of the modern state, from Saint Augustine onwards, led us to other levels. Hence the great opportunity to withdraw amendment 4,100 and, in any case, for our Group, not to vote in favour. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u65	Senator Palma, I'll tell you that your Group has run out of time, so I'll give you a minute to speak in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u66	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, thank you for your kindness, but I do not intend to speak in an explanation of vote, but on the order of business; then, if it is for a minute, for half a minute or for a minute and a half, I turn to your generous courtesy. With great tranquility, I believe that the intervention of Senator Quagliariello, in addition to being authoritative, has opened a different scenario on this vote, which clearly does not reduce to the supply or not of spare parts and anything else. It is a serious, heavy decision on foreign and military policy. I cannot understand, Madam President - I am sorry because it does not seem to me to be minor - the reason behind such a measure: why does Italy decide, as proposed by the amendment in question, to act in a certain way? Senator Quagliariello gives an explanation, Senator Gasparri and all the other speakers give others. But I wonder, Madam President, why the government, instead of being silently present in this House, does not respond to objections that seem serious to me. They may be wrong, but they are serious objections to a subject that seems to me to be very important. Why do the Presidents of the Commission not get up and explain to the House the real reason for this behavior? In fact, if the reason were entirely ideological, we could vote or not, but at least the House would know in very clear terms what goes to vote, because it does and what are the consequences of such an act, if they are justified consequences in the face of a fundamental reason that, if it is not hidden, excellent representative of the Government, well could be explained by the Government to the Assembly. [[Senator Mauro Mario points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u67	Senator Mario Mauro, you belong to a group that has already declared its vote and I can only give you the floor on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u69	No one told me about your dissenting explanation of vote. I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u70	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I would very quietly like to make three brief comments. The first observation, on which issues and questions have emerged in the debate, and on which I feel I am speaking by announcing a dissenting vote by my Group on the amendment proposed by the rapporteurs, is that we are talking about a content that has already been exhausted because a significant part of what we are talking about is already at its destination. With good peace for all, while the symbolic value of the amendment tabled, I would like to remind you that some of these materials have certainly already been delivered. In this sense, while I understand the attitude of the Government that when addressing the Assembly submits to its opinion, I consider the government's strategy inappropriate because the Executive, at the time when Parliament applies a sanction to a country with which it has significant relations, cannot pretend anything for the mere fact of knowing that much of this material has already been delivered. Madam President, the most important point I would like to make is to the attention of the rapporteurs and friends of the Democratic Party. It comes from the things that Democratic Party militants write to their political secretary. On the "Corriere della sera" (Corriere della sera), addressing dear secretary Matteo Renzi, Maryan Ismail, an Italian citizen of Somali origin enrolled in the Democratic Party, foundress of the club PD "Città mondo" in Milan and member of the Milanese metropolitan secretariat, writes: I am Muslim, secular and progressive. I consider myself part of a numerically majority Islam, unfortunately financially non-existent and therefore totally unheard. We are called to show ourselves only for facts related to Islamic terrorism. We are not even iconographically picturesque: veils and beards are not our distinctive signs. (...) We do not miss an opportunity to shout our opposition to the Orthodox vision of an Islam where politics and religion are deeply intertwined, identifiable in that wahabism - here I would like the attention of my colleague Sangalli - of the Islamic Brotherhood promoted by various national and territorial acronyms. That's the thing. By making this choice today, we express Parliament's attention and concern that our Government should have a masculine position in its relationship with Egypt on the case of the Regeni. At the same time we put ourselves in a veritable tortuous gut whose terms have led to the ban in Egypt of an organization made up of millions of members. My invitation to my colleagues in the Democratic Party is to pay extreme attention. We do not make gestures that may suggest that our country takes sides on issues that lead to the contrast between al-Sisi and the Muslim brothers. This would result in infinitely incalculable consequences and damage to the life of our country and its democracy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u73	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I will be brief, since I fear that the time available to us is running out. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Time's up, but I'll give you two minutes, just like Senator Caliendo. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I did not understand why a reply to Senator Caliendo's question did not arrive, which put it as a legal question. I will try to make it elementary: these spare parts are still in our home, we have to send them to us or have they already gone in 2015? If someone answered, maybe one would vote knowing what they vote for. [[Senator Latorre points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u74	Senator Latorre asks to intervene, maybe he can give you some answers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u75	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). It's the third or fourth time. Stop! There is a regulation to be respected for everyone. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u76	Senator Calderoli, I do not think you can say that the President does not speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u77	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, there is a question of cover. The text quantifys the transfer (or what it is). This morning it was rejected - because it had the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission - an amendment by Senator Divina that brought a carabiniere back from Uganda due to lack of cover, because there was the resources to keep him in Uganda but not to let him back in. Then, if the exchanges are already in Egypt, I would like President Tonini to tell me if it is covered by the burden of going to get them back, because of two o'clock: either I am here and we have to send them or we have to go and get them back. We want to know, before we vote, whether I'm there or I'm here, and the government should occasionally prove that it's alive, because it's really disarming a Secretary of Defense like that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u80	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, after the statements by the former Minister of Defence Mauro - I repeat, not just any one, but the former Minister of Defence - who says that these spare parts are already on site, they have already been delivered... CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). It's written in the report. CRIMI (M5S). We want to understand whether they are or have not been sent and, if they have been sent, whether this has been done on the basis of legislation; whether or not there is a financial coverage, what is the quantification (also of the subsequent transfer). I believe that on this point perhaps it would be useful to pause for a moment to reflect and ask the Government that it relations in a certain way, possibly documented and not only with hypothesis, because here we are and we must understand what we are talking about: there are those who say that the spare parts are here and who says that they are there. We want the certainty of what the reality is: if they are here, if they have been sent, how many, where, when, by whom and with what financial coverage. Ours isn't a demand in the air. I think it is legitimate to ask, especially if the former Minister of Defence insists that they are already on the ground.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u83	LATORRE (PD). Madam President, I do not speak to give an answer, because it is the government that should answer, even if I happen to be informed of the matter. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S, LAG (GS, PpI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and LN-Aut]] and I take advantage of the word to inform my colleagues that this material has not been delivered at all, but is packed in the port of Taranto. It, therefore, does not entail any burden and there are no problems of any kind. I know because I'm going to hang out with him, and I'm also checking the packages. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] What I would like to say is that I have a great deal of respect for the debate that has taken place. It is understandable that in the face of such a dramatic situation there may be different approaches to dealing with and handling this issue. However, I insist on two aspects. First of all, God knows how much, on situations like these, it would be necessary to keep our country united and how useful a strong and united signal of Parliament would be, without using such a dramatic story for foolish calculations of propaganda. [[Applause from the PD Group]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Then why did you put it in the decree-law? LATORRE (PD). I'm saying it with respect. Secondly, this is the first time that Parliament has had the opportunity to express, with the adoption of an initiative, the need to speed up the time of truth. The act we are adopting is intended to urge the achievement of this objective, without in any way compromising any kind of relationship today, not least because the Government has already done something much more important, that is to call the ambassador. The recalled ambassador is still in Italy. I believe that we have all agreed on this and it would be appropriate for Parliament, unitedly, to send this signal today to speed up the time of truth. That is the meaning we want to give to this amendment, which has an important value. We have presented it, thinking that, around this initiative, a strong unity of Parliament would be created on the need to accompany the decision to recall the ambassador. Moreover, I do not believe that colleagues who are contesting this amendment today have had any grounds for criticism of this initiative; indeed, they have been commended for the measure taken. So I am surprised that today, in the face of this initiative, this whole debate is on the rise. I repeat, it is clear that in the face of such a difficult situation different attitudes and points of view can be recorded, but the meaning of our initiative is this and we do not derail on this line because the firmness of our country is fundamental. We, in fact, demand truth, without wishing in any way to compromise, at least at this stage, diplomatic relations. However, it is clear that if this situation is not clarified and the signals that come to us do not go in the direction of the emergence of truth, other initiatives from both the Government and Parliament may be necessary. It is in this spirit that we want to take this step and, in accordance with their views, I would like to appeal to colleagues to lower their voices on this matter and to share the content of this amendment. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u86	IN MAY (CoR). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business to express the embarrassment of a Member who would like to understand what we are voting on and who, in fact, is unable to understand what is going on in this House. I frequent Taranto with the same as Senator Latorre, yet I did not know at all that our pieces were deposited in that port. And then basically, after the speeches of Senator Caliendo and a former Minister of Defence, from which we learn the situation in which we find ourselves, I apologize, Senator Latorre, if we can't have the truth, because the truth is never told to us by this Government in this House, so Parliament can never form an opinion and can't understand what it can decide and what it can vote for. This is the situation in which we have to decide every time. There is, above all, one fundamental fact: since we have waited for the Budget Committee to make us aware of the coverage of this measure, whether these parts are or are not at their destination changes or does not change the figure on the cover? And if they're not there, how were they used? Madam President, there is a fundamental fact... PRESIDENT. Excuse me, Senator Di Maggio, this is not an intervention on the order of business. VOLPI (LN-Aut). The government has to tell us where the pieces are. Do you understand that, Madam President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, let Senator Di Maggio conclude, who also covers with his stature and which I can no longer see. Please, Senator Di Maggio. IN MAY (CoR). So, in order to reach the request of Senator Latorre and to find a minimum of seriousness, which in this House is always very difficult to find (for the simple fact that there is a majority hiding), if they tell us how the papers are, perhaps we could contribute to a serious parliamentary debate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Senator Pegorer's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u89	Please limit your speech to one minute, Senator Romani, because your Group has run out of time. The timing is very short, so please be very brief. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we are writing one of the worst pages of this House. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Senator Latorre, with dialectical funambolisms, tried to tell us that suddenly in the afternoon, after hours and hours of discussion, he discovered that in the port of Taranto there are dumpsters with inside the spare parts of the F-16. And the President of the Defence Commission tells us, while the government has no idea where these spare parts are, because I imagine if he had known, he would have told us before and loosened this knot. Senator Latorre said we need to give a signal today. If I understood correctly, the Italian Government gave a very strong signal on the case of Regeni, calling the ambassador back. And now we are told that this Parliament, unbeknownst to the Government that is returning to this House, needs to give a further signal in secret. I will take this amendment to the Egyptian ambassador and have it read to him. I will tell him that, thanks to our legislative funambolism, letter b) to which amendment 4,100 refers means that we will not give Egypt the spare parts of the F-16. [[Comments of Senator Caliendo]] Shut up, Caliendo! And he will have to understand that Parliament has put itself in a position to give a further signal, suddenly, with a government returning to this House. Gentlemen of the majority, I am ashamed to belong to a Parliament that does these things. You're indecent! That is not understandable. That is not how national policy is done. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u90	Please conclude, Senator Romani.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u91	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). The ambassador is called back. The Government takes note of a decision by Parliament and tells Egypt that the Italian Parliament has decided to give a further signal and that the result of this signal and its collateral damage is that we no longer want to give spare parts and that, for this reason, we must go looking for them somewhere else; otherwise we will never fight terrorism with the Egyptian ally. And this is not a way of doing foreign policy. Undersecretary Rossi, tell us what the truth is. Tell us what you're going to tell the Egyptian ambassador, tell us what we're telling Egypt about this. It is not possible to activate a path of this type. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u92	Does the government intend to intervene?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u93	[[Undersecretary Rossi mentions denial. Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u96	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. I would like to ask Parliament and the Government when it puts sanctions against the United States and France on the agenda, accused of killing 81 citizens with their own missile... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u97	Senator Giovanardi, I take the floor because your speech is not on the order of business. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). VOICES FROM THE FI-PdL GROUP XVII. Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u98	Councillor Samir Hammal is present in the gallery representing the Administration of the French Senate as part of the program of visits, study and collaboration between our Assemblies. He is witnessing a very lively session. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u101	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we have passed, so to speak... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I remind you that your Group has run out of time, so I should not give you the floor. VOLPI (LN-Aut). It cannot be Parliament where you always pretend to be nothing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would remind you that you have called for the application of the Rules of Procedure. VOLPI (LN-Aut). She's used to it (and maybe someone else does it all the time), interrupting who's talking. I'll only take a minute. Madam President, we have overcome, I think with little elegance, the crux of that amendment. I ask you, through the Presidency, to urge the presence of a Minister, but not for a majority and opposition problem, because I did the same thing when I was in the majority. It is not possible that there are non-answers and silences on issues that, President Casini, do not always concern pipers and sax. So I also ask the two Presidents of the Commission, with their elegance and moderation, to urge, perhaps through informal channels, the presence of a minister, that is, someone who can answer. I believe that this is the least respect for all Members of the majority and opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u102	Senator Di Biagio, do you accept the proposed reformulation of amendment 4.4? DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Di Biagio. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.5. [[Senator De Petris' comments.]] What's the matter, Senator De Petris? We have just adopted Amendment 4.4 and are about to vote on Amendment 4.5. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, amendment 4.5 has been absorbed by the adoption of amendment 4,100. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Petris, I ask you to clarify your objection, because it is unclear to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u105	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, Amendment 4.5 is identical to amendment 4,100 that has already been adopted, so that the rapporteurs, when expressing their opinion, stated in the afternoon sitting that it would be absorbed by the adoption of the amendment by the Commissions, so it cannot put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u106	They put it aside and let us check for a moment, because it is not clear to me how much absorption it is because, as far as I am concerned, Amendment 4.5 is not identical to Amendment 4,100. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). It's identical! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are in favour of Amendment No 4.5 because it is not exactly the same. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). It has the same meaning! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It does not appear to the Presidency. Let us move on to Amendment 4.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. LUCIDES (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4,100a, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DIVINE (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100a, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4101, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DIVINE (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 4102.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u109	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, in the spirit of what the Government has also said, we would like to avoid participating in the aerial surveillance of space east of the Alliance, because this surveillance is clearly anti-Russian. Putting anti-missile batteries and monitoring airspace at the border with Russia is certainly a signal that does not help in the bilateral relations that Italy and Russia are trying to achieve, following the latest statements also made by the President of the Council. Therefore, with paragraph 9 we go exactly in the opposite direction of what is said to want to rebuild, that is, a minimum of dialogue with the Russian Federation. I therefore call for the adoption of amendment 4102.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u110	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4102, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u113	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, it is not easy to work, even in the budget committee, with a flood of amendments and small bundles. However, I would like to understand and clarify one point. The text of the Government announces the need for an expenditure of 908,000 euros, referred to in paragraph 10, to cover the period from 10 May to 30 June. The Joint Commissions propose that this period be extended to 31 December 2016. There is nothing added from the point of view of expenditure. So, that means either that the first expenditure quantified by the government was absolutely exorbitant; or that you have to get to 31 December 2016 by spending the same money, which seems a little questionable to me can happen. Therefore, once again and on a purely technical fact, no longer political, I would like the Government to clarify how it can be reached 31 December 2016 without increasing an appropriation requested by the same Government for the period from 10 May to 30 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Alì, as the time available to your Group is over, I would invite you to be very synthetic. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Then I'll stop here, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u114	Madam President, the estimate of the measure is obviously in relation to the possible use of a naval unit - a hunter - which has not been employed in relation to all that time, by 30 June, and which has still been requested for naval surveillance of the Alliance's South airplane. The fifty-two days on which it was to be used in the first half of the year have been moved to the second half of the year and this clearly does not involve any further margin of expenditure since the charges are those authorized in the previous measure. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). It's 52 days. Mr Rossi, State Secretary for Defence. Exactly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u115	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4,300 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 4,400 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u118	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, I withdraw it and, if the Government agrees, turn it into an agenda. I also withdraw amendment 4.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u119	I would ask you to forward to the Presidency the text of the agenda, on which we will then ask the Government to speak. As far as Amendment 4.5 is concerned, although there is no textual coincidence, a verification has been made and there is a substantial absorption following the adoption of amendment 4,100 of the Joint Commissions. A rewording proposal was put forward by the Government on the agenda of the G4100. I ask Senator Di Biagio if he accepts this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u120	Madam President, I certainly accept the rewording of the Government, but I remain puzzled about some aspects included on the agenda, with regard to the UN issue, which seems somewhat presumptuous, considering the success of the investigation already initiated on this subject in the past years by our Ministries. Therefore, it might be useful to come back to the topic later on in a more systemic view. Today, let us limit ourselves to fulfilling the international commitments already ratified by our Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u121	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G4100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I ask Senator Divine if he accepts the government's proposals for reformulation regarding the agendas G4.101 and G4.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u122	Madam President, we accept the proposals for reformulation and we even thank the Government because, in addition to rejecting all the amendments concerning relations between Italy and Russia, these two agendas have basically accepted the guidelines with which it is said to avoid continuing to use missiles for purposes other than to protect one of the States of the Alliance. However, we are going in the direction of relaxation and reconciliation with Russia. We thank - I repeat - the Government for accepting these two agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u123	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G4.101 (text 2) and G4.102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would ask the Government to comment on the agenda G4.1002, which reads as follows: "It commits the Government not to authorise free supply of arms and weapons systems for the benefit of States responsible for serious violations of international human rights conventions, established by the competent bodies of the United Nations, the EU or the Council of Europe or which train and use minors in combat."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u124	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u127	SANTANGELO (M5S). I would like to thank the Government and ask for the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u128	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4.1002, presented by Senators Santangelo and Marton. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the G4.7 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u129	Mr President, I am in favour of the G4.7 agenda if it reads as follows: 'The Senate', which commits the Government, with regard to the protection of sensitive objectives, to consider the possibility of drawing on them, with the consent of the Government, (...)'.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u130	Madam President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u131	Senator Vattuone, please send the Presidency a written text. Senator Gualdani, do you accept the proposed reformulation? Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G4.7 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u132	Madam President, I am against Amendments 5.1 and 5.3. I call on the authors to withdraw amendment 5.2 (text 2) otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u133	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u136	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I heard before you put to the vote, before the agenda resulting from Senator Gualdani's amendment, an agenda which I believe has been called G4.1002. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, it's an agenda for Senators Santangelo and Marton. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Too bad he's not in distribution anywhere. I don't know who could see him.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u137	Senator Malan, if you followed the discussion, it is an agenda that refers to the issues mentioned in an amendment by Senator Santangelo. The amendment had been published earlier, as is often the case in the course of the debate, as you know and as we have just done with Senator Gualdani's agenda: exactly the same thing. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, but they say so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since this is a decree-law, we could also assume that the request applies to all amendments since they do refer to the same article as the draft law. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.2 (text 2). Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) I'm gonna drop it, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to Amendment 5.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u138	I am against Amendments 7.1 and 7.2. I am in favour of amendment 7,500.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u139	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u140	Let us move on to Amendment 7.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote, and we are also asking for the next voting to be carried out simultaneously by electronic means. However, I agree with you, Mr President, as a decree-law, we could save some time and ask for electronic voting on all the amendments at the beginning. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Unfortunately, that is not the practice, Senator Santangelo. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur, Mr Vattuone, to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7,500, which complies with a condition laid down by the Budget Committee. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u143	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Madam President, on amendment 7,500 I mistakenly voted against, but my vote was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u144	We take note of that. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u145	Madam President, on Amendment 8.1, the opinion is in favour, with a rewording that I propose to the House. After the words: "vents among the objectives prevention" I propose to add the following diction: "protection and the contrast to sexual violence on women and girls, especially when used as a tactic of war". Then, after the words: "protection" I propose to add the following: "and respect for their human rights," as well as measures in support of the peace initiatives promoted by women in implementation of UN Security Council Resolution No 1325 of 31 October 2000 and subsequent UN Security Council Resolutions on the same subject." The next three lines are deleted. The last period, from the words: "The Minister for Foreign Affairs" to "results obtained" is also deleted. It is a rewording that extends the scope of the planned intervention, delimiting, however, its scope with respect to the internal part and increasing it with respect to the relational part with the countries and with the United Nations. On Amendment 8.2, the opinion is opposed. I call for the withdrawal of amendment 8.3, on which there is the opposite opinion of the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u146	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u147	Senator De Cristofaro, do you accept the rewording of amendment 8.1?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u148	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u151	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, allow me to make a request to Mr Sangalli. There is a passage in the reformulation that refers to violence against women when it is used as a tactic of war. I believe that that type of violence is absolutely out of the question and that we should not even put as an alibi any idea that it can be used as a war tactic. I'd leave the lyrics dry: those things aren't done. Let's forget about war tactics, which suggests my sensitivity. It is true, Mr De Biasi, that this wording could be used if there were international trials, but I think it is appropriate to avoid it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u154	DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Volpi because I understand the meaning of his speech: violence is always, however, to be banned. But we know perfectly well that ethnic rapes have been used as a weapon of war and that burnt women are the object of war and are an instrument. Therefore, I believe that not only does it serve to mark it, but it also clarifies a historical truth. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Di Biagio and Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u157	Mr Sangalli, rapporteur. Madam President, I have understood the spirit of Mr Volpi's speech, but I really believe that, especially when it is used, it is an addictive one and not an attenuating one.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u158	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u161	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, just now we said that electronic voting should be required in practice. We therefore call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. Moreover, on occasion I invite you to remove the many cards of senators who are not present. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u162	I shall cancel the previous vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators and ask the Secretary Senators to proceed with the extraction of the cards to which the actual presence of senators does not correspond. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator Cotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Verducci (PD). Madam President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us now turn to the amendments relating to the draft conversion law, on which the admissibility of amendment x1.2 (correct text) was still pending for further consideration, which is actually inadmissible. I do not know whether the Commission intends to withdraw it, but in the view of the Presidency it is purely legal, so it is unacceptable and therefore will not be put to the vote. Consequently, amendments x1.2 (correct text)/1, x1.2 (correct text)/2, x1.2 (correct text)/3 and x1.2 (correct text)/4, have lapsed. There remains amendment x1.1 (correct text), tabled by the Commissions, which is intended to be presented and on which there is the favourable opinion of the rapporteurs and the Government. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u165	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I do not know why amendment x1.2 (correct text) was declared inadmissible, but amendment x1.1 (correct text)... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, but amendment x1.2 (correct text) has been declared inadmissible; therefore, the other sub-amendments have lapsed. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I made myself clear. I say quietly that I said it before you explained it, but let's forget about amendment x1.2 (correct text). Amendment x1.1 (correct text) is a six-month extension to the Government for the exercise of legislative delegation, as the text itself says, for the reorganisation of the Presidency of the Council. What does this have to do with international missions? That is why I said to myself: there will be a reason why amendment x1.2 (correct text) has been removed. Amendment x1.1 (correct text) - if I have not misread the reference - contains the extension of the deadline for the exercise of the legislative delegation for the reordering of the Presidency of the Council. What does this have to do with everything that says the title of the measure, while adding to the title: "prorogation of the deadline for the exercise of legislative delegation"? Where is the homogeneity to which the Constitutional Court has referred several times to us, which in some cases has done even more by declaring unconstitutional rules in force for years? Wasn't that the government changing pace, running fast, punching, slapping, and jumping? No, that was a hundred years before, but we're there! The Government, clinging to a rule on international missions, requests six months of extension to exercise the delegation. A large part of the delegation is made blank, but the Government fails to use it in the months granted to it and asks for an extension for the exercise of the legislative delegation sticking it to the decree-law on the missions. I do not know why amendment x1.2 (correct text) was declared inadmissible - I imagine it was out of the question - but amendment x1.1 (correct text) seems even more foreign to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u168	CRIMI (M5S). The amendment shows what we have supported during the debate on the delegation law on public administration, namely the need to review the evil choice made by the Government to abolish the State Forestry Corps. The amendment shows that we were right and that, perhaps, that choice was not good. This is perhaps an opportunity to avoid applying that option, which was envisaged as a possible option. I remember, in fact, that in the law delegated Madia there was talk of possible amalgamation of the Forest Body of the State. The question has instead become the central point of the draft legislative decree, which has already been submitted and which is being examined for the expression of the opinion by the competent Commissions. Perhaps it is necessary to review the further extension that the Government asks - if it has had such a quiet iter, evidently the Government was not able to definitively close that delegation that it had requested at the time and, therefore, cannot intervene - and to withdraw the draft legislative decree today under discussion in the Commissions. And it is necessary to withdraw it in order to review the choice of the closure of the Forest Corps of the State, which we feel wrong also in the ways, because it has gone to violate also the decisions taken here, the agendas, the amendments, the recommendations and the assurances also on the unity of the Body and the maintenance of its functions. On the contrary, today we are faced with a breakup, a dismemberment of those functions. Perhaps, in the light of this amendment, the Government should immediately withdraw the draft legislative decree and prevent it from being approved and from reaching an opinion. The Commission takes six months to reflect on this choice. Within that legislative decree there are some interesting measures, such as the rationalization of some resources of the police forces and certain services, but certainly not that possible dismemberment of the State Forestry Corps, which - I repeat - is a possibility that we hope to stop. We haven't given up hope yet. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u171	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Madam President, it is absolutely legitimate for the 5 Star Movement Group to have substantive objections to the legislative decree on the reorganization of police forces. However, the extension of the time limits for the exercise of the delegation cannot have any reflection on the work of the Commission and on the deadline provided for in Law No 240 of 2015, which is sixty days for the competent Commissions to express their opinion. And I say this because I would like to prevent the debate on this amendment from turning again into the Commission and again to raise a question which cannot be raised. Article 1 of the Madia law provides that the Government has twelve months, since the entry into force of the law - it was August 28, 2015 - for the enactment of legislative decrees. And, as we know, many and very complex have already been issued by the Government, examined by the Commission or being examined by the Commission. The term that is reserved - therefore with special discipline in relation to the terms provided for in Rule 139- bis of our Rules of Procedure, that is twenty days, plus ten more allowed by the President of the Senate in cases of particular complexity - for the examination of legislative decrees by the competent Commissions is sixty days. Beyond this term, which is peremptory, the text of the Madia law provides that, in case the opinion does not intervene within sixty days, the Government can issue the legislative decree even in the absence of observations from the competent Commissions, moreover in a discipline that, on the contrary - and especially - reserves to the opinion of the competent Commissions a particularly severe effect. In other words, if the Government does not wish to comply with the instructions from the relevant Commissions, it should return to Parliament and give its reasons for this non-compliance. Well, the 60-day period is in no way altered by the extension of the period granted to the Government for the exercise of the delegation. And I wanted to clarify that. [[Senator Crimi's comments.]] Comrade Crimes, I'm as sophisticated as you are. We are both of Sicilian origin and for this reason I allow myself a confidential joke: we Sicilians have the presumption of having a sophisticated way of reasoning. I am well aware that you have asked the Government to use that time limit to withdraw the decree-law and retable another with different choices and motivations. In any case, it seemed to me appropriate to clarify these aspects in this House because I would not like this to be raised at other times in a more or less instrumental way. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u174	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment x1.1 (correct text), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u175	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u176	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u178	[[Brusio.]] Tarquinio (CoR). Madam President, I would like to say that, with the demobilisation in place, there is not much desire to speak, because no one is heard. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to ask those Members who are leaving the Chamber to do so quickly. Tarquinio (CoR). The Conservative and Reformist Group is concerned about the strange things that have happened with regard to the amendment relating to the case of the Regeni, because it was an incomprehensible attitude of the majority and also of the President of the Commission, who spoke unmistakably in the debate and said that nothing had emerged in the Commission, so lying shamelessly because what has been said here is a part of what has been said in the Commission, where it has always been discussed. Despite all this, my group's colleagues and I, as we have always done and will always do, will vote in favour of the conversion of the decree-law in view of our sensitivity to the issue of international missions, even if the emptiness, absence, silence and improvisation of the Government are fully highlighted. (18.39) (Tarquinio followed). We do not realize that what we are about to vote on was to be our Gospel on foreign and defence policy, above all on terrorism. But that's not it. We ask the government to be more active, as we can no longer listen to what our allies say. We can no longer declare ourselves ready to leave Afghanistan and, after three days, say the exact opposite because someone has changed their mind. We must be respected wherever possible. Then there is a drama that we all seem to exorcise and that no one talks about: the mission to save - this is the reality - all the immigrants who come to Italy, EUNAVFOR Med, must be reviewed in full. Dear Undersecretary, dear President, as everyone has said, this mission serves only to facilitate the task of the boatmen, whom we now take almost ashore and to whom we grant permission. Even, someone came up with the idea of renting the ships of the Costa Crociera, to go around the various coastal cities (Italian, in this case) and distribute immigrants over the entire country. This is the bitter reality, since then immigrants remain all in Italy. I would like to make an appeal without infidelity and hypocrisy, even if it is of little interest to everyone. We cannot see the ineffable Alfano who tells us stories about immigrants every day. There are thousands of them now - too many - and we can't handle them, and we all know that. There are those who speculate on all this in Italy, but especially abroad. I am referring to Libya: do you know that Libyan tribes derive 35% of their so-called GDP from migrant trafficking? That is the fact. We can't hold it anymore. We have to beat our fists in Europe with respect to all this. It is not possible for Italy to make huge contributions, often superior to those of Germany and France, in terms of men, throughout the world chessboard - even in the North African one (see Libya) - and then it remains alone - this is the truth - in the context of a monstrous phenomenon. Frontex's leader tells us about 300,000 migrants and maybe they will be even more. But do we want to take a good look in the mirror? Are we able to hold them or will all our cities soon break out? That's the real thing. And, when the Italian people, who already have many reasons to do so, will break out, who will rule this situation? The fugitive government? It's reality. We will vote in favour of international missions and we could not do otherwise, because we are convinced of their need; we are convinced of the important role of Italy and the Italian military, which stand out for their ability, dedication and humanity, as no other nation is able to do. We transmit and transport humanity everywhere, because it is in our nature. But let us first respect our military, the doctors and all those who are engaged, recognizing something more to all those who risk their lives and dedicate time to the poor people persecuted everywhere. That's the real thing. We vote in favour of our consistency, but certainly, with respect to the attitudes of the majority, our vote should have been against. Instead, we confirm the Conservative and Reformist Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the CoR and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u179	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u181	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, the debate at this moment has been absurd, because we have focused more on the Mogadishu band and the donation of some musical instruments than, in proportion, on the important issues and what we were actually going to finance, as the operation overall exceeds the expenditure of EUR 1.2 billion. We continue to be extremely opposed to the fact that we approve of missions whose aims are then completely overturned. Perhaps that would be even the lesser evil; but, by twisting the ends, you get exactly opposite results compared to those you would like to pursue. Illegal trafficking in human beings is a blameworthy thing, to the point that we all voted in accordance with the replacement of the old operations on the Mediterranean (Triton and before that Mare nostrum) with the EUNAVFOR Med. But this last mission, which was used to counter illegality, ended up becoming a substantial humanitarian operation aimed at gathering refugees and shipwrecks. Nor can we call them refugees, because the refugee has a precise legal definition; they are migrants of all kinds, illegals, with potential terrorists mixed among them. We have therefore violated the intentions of the mission. Moreover, if the mission had been completed, that is, with boats in Libyan waters that immediately reject every illegal, we would have obtained that, in the course of probably a week, there would have been no more any kind of departure and any kind of landing on the Italian, Greek and Maltese coasts, because no one would have thrown figures between 2,000 and 3,000 euros to see themselves rejected after a few miles from the departure. We have, therefore, achieved exactly the opposite of what was said to want to pursue. Other colleagues have done well to establish that there must be an end to these missions, which cost a great deal. An aircraft carrier, with all the equipment and military personnel of Marina, has very high costs. If they serve as a deterrent to the security of the country, the country must take charge of them. If they are to serve, however, for other purposes and to grab shipwrecks, this cannot be acceptable. We had observed how serious it was to arm countries that do not give guarantees of stability. It was not understood at the end of the debate - no one can say that they are able to say it - where the exchanges of the old F-16 aircraft are: whether they are in Taranto, leaving for Taranto or already arrived in Egypt. We have heard a accompanying report that they have already been sent, but we have also heard the President of the Defence Commission say with complete confidence that they are still stored in the port of Taranto. Beyond not having understood this, to finance an unstable country and to equip it with weapons today can be useful, because it has a government that moves in a certain dimension; but a tomorrow, considering that the same country in a little more than a year has changed color, regime and orientation regarding the foreign policies of the chessboard of the Middle East, could have a very high dose of danger. We have pointed this out and we hope that what we have feared will not be realized. We continue to note an incongruity: all the amending proposals in which it was said that there is no need to strengthen NATO's anti-Russian defences, because in the end we are actually going to bring Italian means and equipment according to the missile contrast. Fortunately, the Government has supported two amendments by the League that say the exact opposite of what they supported the amendment and the articles that marked the position between the West and the Russian Federation, according to which in any case we can use them in function not anti-Russian, but only on the basis of attacks on a nation that is part of the Atlantic Alliance. No one has responded to our objection of how much the operation will cost Mosul: there are more than 400 men under regime, of which 100 already on site, and not to counter terrorism, but to protect the interests of an Italian society. We do not mind that the company Trevi has obtained this important order (even if it is not even known whether there has been a competition or a direct trust), which will bring in the coffers of an Italian company more than 270 million euros. What we cannot understand is why, if the operation that will go into port will protect and will bring great advantages and interests to the Italian society, the costs for the maintenance of safety and for the surveillance in the vicinity of the operating yard must be loaded on the grumpone of the Italian taxpayers. We cannot fail to note that we have voted for something which, in the opinion of the League Group, which has consulted on this matter, is unconstitutional. I am referring to the fact that with the amendments not to the decree-law, but to the draft law of conversion we even had to change its title, because compared to the original one we had to add "prorogation of the deadline for the exercise of legislative delegation". This has never happened, and it is a very serious precedent to include in a law of conversion a delegation to a bill. It may be useful, but, according to Mr Finocchiaro's statement, it is pleonastic and it is of no use at all, because the Commissions meeting 1a and 4a have already begun to examine the reordering measure. And since it expires at the end of August, I can say that we have 60 days in the Commissions and then in the House to convert the government's delegation. Therefore, this extension could be even unnecessary, superfluous and pleonastic. It does, however, create a very serious precedent, which we must point out. It never happened that we voted, in a converted decree-law, an extension, to which, in order to make it seem relevant to the requirements of necessity and urgency, which are those that must carry a decree-law, we even had to change title. We must realise what legal aberration we have committed, to the point that the Presidency has had to say that another issue, namely the reordering of the Red Cross and the establishment of a statute to reformulate and reorganize the military and non-military relationship between the voluntary bodies as well as the military bodies of the Red Cross, had been attached with the same ease with which this amendment was annexed, in turn having to return its title. But if the question of the Red Cross was declared unacceptable, as it was unconstitutional, the Presidency should have said the same for amendment x1.1. Therefore, I declare our abstention vote. As we have said, the League is always responsible for matters concerning the image of our country abroad. Many things do not work and, for this reason, we abstain, with what, in this case, is a benevolent abstention. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u182	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u184	DAVICO (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, several months ago, we examined a measure, better known as the framework law for military missions abroad, which was intended to put a stop to the urgent decree in relation to this subject and which was also intended to regulate the procedural aspects and the economic treatment of military contingents engaged in international missions. Unfortunately, the moment of the qualitative leap has not yet come, because - as we have seen several times in the last few days in the course of the debate - and once again we are before a decree-law that puts us in front of the limited time of effectiveness - the extension will expire at the end of the current year - and the need for recurrence, with all the related problems related to harmonisation of the rules and operational coordination. Basically, compared with previous years we are not faced with new developments: still hundreds are the millions allocated to armed missions and much less are the resources for civil cooperation projects. And once again we are faced with the decision to combine into one measure all military missions abroad, which each have a profoundly different nature. Let's see the numbers. For 2016 there are 1.2 billion euros that the Government allocates to military missions abroad - which is a decision in line with what happened last year - compared to only 90 million (so less 16 million compared to last year) for civil cooperation in the same areas. But we are faced with a decree-law, which must therefore be approved or rejected in full, although - we repeat - containing missions of a completely different nature and scope. This makes us reaffirm that, in the light of the framework law on missions abroad, which is currently being examined again by the other branch of Parliament, it would have been more appropriate to proceed with a subdivision of these missions, taking into account the territorial and geopolitical specificity, in order to allow Parliament to make more thoughtful choices and to respond already, even through the instrument of the decree-law, to the spirit of the framework law which we here in the Senate have approved and which should - hopefully shortly - overcome the problem of the forced grouping of missions. All the more so since the missions abroad that this decree-law goes to extend have remained without legal and financial cover, in fact, for now the six months past, since the previous measure of extension has come to expire on 31 December 2015. But the thing that I would like to highlight is that in the text we are examining today only the financial resources of the various interventions, but very little or nothing is specified about the order of each mission, such as - for example - what have been the objectives achieved so far and what still to be achieved; planning, in short, a military and international policy objective. Some of our military contingents have been engaged in certain missions for more than a decade. It is, therefore, inevitable to ask whether this measure does not reveal a deficiency, which is that of the reasoning on the results of our missions and the point on their effectiveness. The measure under discussion, in addition to extending the mission to Afghanistan, which should have been completed in 2014, continues to finance directly with EUR 120 million the Kabul security forces, on which the international community has expressed strong reservations. All this - we repeat - takes place without conditioning the important military aid to respect human rights. On human rights, ladies and gentlemen, we must no longer transgress. In addition to Lebanon, Kosovo, anti-piracy intervention in the Indian Ocean, Albania, Palestine, Mali, the Baltic area for air surveillance, Bosnia and Cyprus, our country will also be the protagonist of the European Union mission in Somalia, commanded by an Italian general and to which we contribute with a large contingent, to train the local army. And all this happens despite the Somali army enlisting and using - according to the UN Secretary General - even child soldiers. It's no longer conceivable. The way to negotiate must be found again, even on non-negotiable rights such as those of minors not to be armed and involved in conflicts of any kind. Remarkable resources are destined to continue the engagement of the air vehicles in Iraq, while for now there are no funds in favour of the already announced mission of protection of the yard of an Italian company that will have to restructure the dam of Mosul. This was one of the points that needed to be clarified. Paragraph 9 of Article 2 says that from 1 January 2016 and until 31 December 2016, the expenditure of EUR 236,402 million - with the approval of an amendment in the Commission has increased to over EUR 253,875 million - for the extension of the participation of military personnel in the activities of the international coalition to combat the terrorist threat of the Daesh. This figure should include, with effect from 1 April 2016, both a 137-unit personnel recovery device and a team of approximately 100 military personnel in charge of the preparatory activities to force protection in the Mosul area, with particular reference to the work on the consolidation of the dam. With respect to the two missions in Afghanistan and Somalia, a few questions may arise. For the mission to Afghanistan, the 120 million euros laid down in paragraph 3, Article 9, for the security forces of Kabul, also go to the Afghan National Police, which, for more than five years, has been blacklisted by the UN Secretary General in his report on who recruits and uses child soldiers, a crime condemned by international law. I would also like to point out that Amnesty International's 2015-2016 report states that violations committed by Afghan local police (ALP) have been reported including intimidation, beatings, illegal detentions, targeted killings, rape of children. Furthermore, Amnesty's document states that Afghanistan has continued to apply the death penalty often at the end of unfair trials. For the mission to Somalia, the approximately EUR 25,582 million provides for the extension of the participation of military personnel in the European Union missions called EUTM Somalia. The mission aims to contribute to the development of the security sector by providing specific military training for 2,000 Somali recruits. According to the UN Secretary-General's report of June 5, 2015, "Children and armed conflict," Mogadishu's armed forces appear, as in the past, among those who train and use minors in combat, in clear contempt of international law. The Government of Mogadishu, also according to Amnesty International's latest annual report, is held responsible for serious violations of the most basic human rights. We recall that Italy signed in 2013 a treaty of military cooperation with Somalia aimed also at strengthening the military exchange between the two countries, despite Somalia being one of the poorest countries in the world. In this context, Italy should make all military aid conditional on respect for human rights, in particular by putting an end, immediately, to the aberrant phenomenon of child soldiers. As far as Libya is concerned, the funds are large, but it is not clear, and less detailed, why it has quadrupled up to 90 million the allocation for the naval force already engaged. This Parliament should be aware of the aims of the appropriations: this is not only about public money but also about foreign policy, whose direction cannot and must not be mysterious. In essence, is Italy a country that at those latitudes will be remembered for its ability to export models of democracy, or as a mere dispenser of military training? We certainly hope that these constructive criticism profiles will be overcome with the full entry into force of the Framework Law on Missions and its implementing decrees, so that it will become a valid instrument for a proper and complete discussion on each of the missions. This would result in Parliament's necessary and serious commitment to devote the proper attention to military missions, which are certainly a fundamental aspect of our foreign policy, which is not secondary and without consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by hoping that this will be the last debate that the Senate is holding in the absence of the operation of the framework law, since it is necessary to put an end to the repeated approval of decrees that have only funds decided by the Government in solitude. However, in order to allow our country to live up to its international commitments, I declare the Group's favourite vote and freedom, even if, in accordance with the different sensibilities present within the Group, some senators will express a certain and clear vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u185	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u187	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, I would ask for permission to give the floor so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. I'll just make a few brief remarks. We have always believed that the missions of our military in the critical areas of the world strengthen Italy on the international scene and are also an element of defence of the national interest. I therefore immediately declare our Group's vote in favour of the draft law under consideration. The attacks in Paris and Brussels confirmed the close connection between the ongoing conflicts in crisis scenarios and security within the Old Continent, demonstrating once again the operational capacity of terrorist groups that are able to operate both in traditional war theatres and in asymmetric warfare within our cities. This set of factors makes it increasingly crucial that our armed and police forces take action both abroad and at home and in the mission decree show a special effort against the threat of terrorism. Italy fought for the Mediterranean area to become a priority for the European Union and NATO and, with Mare nostrum, saved hundreds of thousands of lives, but only partially achieved its objective. It is true that today there is a common commitment to the patrolling of the Mediterranean, with the continuation of the mission EUNAVFOR Med, but the proper rescue of migrants fleeing from wars have not followed either the redistribution of refugees in the countries of the European Union nor an effective fight against the traffickers of men. Italy, in short, is playing its part in the face of an epochal phenomenon such as the migratory flow, but Europe absolutely is not. This must be said aloud, without boasting successes that have never been on the part of our Government. Migration compact is a wide-ranging strategy, but will only bear fruit in the long term. Therefore, more effective action is needed as a result of the revision of the Dublin Regulation. We cannot allow 600,000 immigrants, expected in 2016 along the Mediterranean route, to remain in our country. One last consideration: the decree-law also reveals our new and unexpected military use in NATO. We will go patrolling the skies of Lithuania and the other Baltic countries to prevent any incursions of Russian combat aircraft: a dangerous situation, which could even more compromise our relations with Moscow at the very moment when the Italian Government is setting itself as a bridge for the resumption of closer cooperation between the European Union and Russia, especially in the field of counter-terrorism. And the same reasoning applies to our contribution to the NATO mission. Active fence in Turkey. After taking an anti-Russian stand, Italy is considering participating in the mission set up to protect Turkish airspace from Syrian, but above all Russian, air intrusions. And this is a real gamble for us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency shall authorise it to hand over the text of its speech to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u188	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u190	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I too would like to be able to deliver the text of the speech and I will simply make a few comments. We have always expressed a very strong criticism of the idea that, even in recent years, we have dealt with the issue of international missions in this way. We have always said that it would be much more useful, more appropriate and even more correct to examine the individual missions in depth and not, on the other hand, an overall reasoning, which is likely to provoke - as has also happened today - a debate on the amendments inevitably very confused. I quote four titles, and then deliver the text of the intervention. Firstly, as I said earlier, we are still waiting for a framework law that can effectively regulate the matter. Even in the debate we are holding this evening, there is a lack of a rigorous budget on the financial allocations, on the restoration of peace conditions, on the possible improvement or - often - worsening of the economic and social conditions and democratic standards of the countries in which the main military missions have been built. One for all continues for us to be a field of strong political controversy, that in Afghanistan, against which, in view of a total - from our point of view - military, political and social failure that has occurred in that country, there has never been a serious and adequate reflection in this Parliament on a budget which, in our opinion, should be done and should be rigorous; that was all because in a country like that, from 11 September 2001 to today, in fifteen years, the situation has clearly deteriorated and not improved. Secondly, very short: we believe that we should have the courage to radically revise the hypothesis of the so-called war on terrorism. We do not in any way diminish Daesh's danger and we join in this Parliament with strong solidarity with all the civilian victims, even the last, those who, unfortunately, last night, once again on a dramatic day, fell at Istanbul airport. But we believe that our own - those of Western countries - are often true crocodile tears. The war on terrorism is not being sold - for example - one and a half billion weapons to the Middle East, as the Western countries and Italy have often done over the last two years; weapons that, through triangulation with so-called our allies - at the same time are also allies and funders of the Daesh - then actually come into the hands of terrorists. We come to the paradox that we are fighting against the weapons that we ourselves have given the Middle East. We think that a radical rethink of military missions should be imagined, just as we have built them over the years. The third issue, which is very quick, but very serious, concerns human rights, particularly child soldiers, a crime condemned by international law. The decree-law under consideration allocates 120 million euros for the security forces of Kabul, destined to the Afghan national police, which - as all reports tell us, also that of the UN Secretary-General on the countries that enlist and use children soldier - is on the blacklist. It is obviously a very serious issue, which we think should be strongly stigmatized by this Parliament. We are also talking about children and also children, because it is now widely recognized the involvement of girls in the Armed Forces, both in the role of fighters and in the role of support and unfortunately, more and more often, as victims of sexual slavery in the wake of the troops. As is well understood, we are talking about such a serious and dramatic issue that, if only for this area of seriousness and drama, it would deserve a specific deepening of this Parliament and not to be one of the many issues referred to in the so-called mission decree. Finally, we are very pleased with the House's vote in favour of the amendment, which starts with our political and parliamentary initiative, which proposes that the free disposal of spare equipment for F-16 aircraft to Egypt be abolished. We think we can say that we take in this favorable vote a positive sign, which makes us say that we did not want to forget what happened in recent months in Egypt, starting from the dramatic story of Giulio Regeni. We have said for months and weeks that it was not enough simply elements of solidarity in words and that instead it was necessary to put concrete elements in place and from this point of view we believe that today, in this House, the strong initiative of the Italian Left Group in this Parliament and, above all, in the country, promoting everywhere truth committees around the dramatic story of Giulio Regeni, has obtained a positive element. Of course, this is a positive element which, however, inserted - as it is obvious - in a much broader context, which, on the other hand, still shows us a series of very significant perplexities and oppositions, does not, however, enable us to vote differently from the contrary, which, as we have done in recent months, we repeat once again here. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u191	The Presidency shall authorise it to hand over the text of its speech to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u192	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u194	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, on behalf of the People's Area Group, I would like to express my full support for the conversion into law of this decree-law, which is a necessary act of Parliament's support for our military commitments abroad, which are an integral part of our foreign policy. I would like to thank the President of the Defence Commission and the rapporteurs, who have done an impeccable job and whose words represent us in full, because they have documented how the work of our military, our operators abroad and all that is contained in the bill that we approve today are part - let me say this - of a national pride. If Italy is so much appreciated in the world, it is also and above all thanks to our international peace missions, armed forces and police, development cooperation initiatives. I have come in these hours from Kurdistan, where we have not only 500 military, but extraordinary works of development cooperation, of Italian voluntary organizations. We must be proud of these people who, in all parts of the world, under the symbol of the Tricolor, are able to express, not the use of force that ends in itself, but the use of force aimed at peace, the freedom of those peoples and solidarity with the people who suffer. I do not wish to add anything else, but I want to say that the controversy about a symbolic act proposed by the rapporteurs seemed inappropriate to me and that it was basically a sign of discomfort towards my friend Egypt, because his friend Egypt is such and the terms of the matter cannot change. It was, however, a symbolic act that shows how this Parliament does not forget and how the search for truth for a barbarically murdered compatriot is an act of dignity and national decency, especially when there have been numerous unacceptable, confused and compromised explanations for which we do not - we do - have any responsibility and for which the Egyptian authorities have responsibility. That is why I think this controversy is pointless. I think it is important that a united act of Parliament is envisaged and I am proud that even the most responsible opposition forces want to contribute by their vote to an act which must unite Italy and the Italians. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u195	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u197	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, you listen to us from outside, fortunately you are here because there will be about ten people here and no more. [[Brusio]] Here, you're hearing them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u198	Senator Santangelo, it's pointless to exaggerate. If he wants to make a controversy, at least he should count.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u199	Citizens, there are many parliamentarians to listen to and there will also be votes. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I do not want to argue with you - of course! - but it's 12. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u200	I'm not a radio reporter, but I'm not. Continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u201	SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, if you'll have me complete... But you say the exact numbers. SANTANGELO (M5S). I would like to be given the time I have available. Today, as usual, we are debating and, soon, also voting yet another framework law that prides President Casini, while it should make a bit 'of mortification, because this decree-law arrives five months late and at this moment our military, who carry out exceptional work, certainly not for the task we carry out here in the Senate, have remained without financial, legal and even political coverage. This is yet another demonstration that, from the planning point of view, the work done by the Government and this majority is absolutely bad. We stress this not because we care about international missions. In fact, we are convinced that the direction that Italy should take in the matter of defence is completely opposite and should not be realized in such an immense number of missions, sometimes even irrational, at a very important historical moment. I will try to highlight just a few points, such as costs. These missions cost quite a lot. This year missions are included in this decree as much as 1.3 billion euros, with as much as 400 million euros more than in the last year. Probably if the number of missions and the amount allocated increase surely the choice of these missions is not wise. Among other things, of those 1.3 billion, cooperation in the strict sense - I have repeated it several times these days and I look forward to a denial by the Government - is allocated only 91.7 million euros. The direction given to the missions not of peace but - let's say - of war cannot be accepted. 19.21 (Santangelo followed). In the cognitive investigation started thanks to the input of the 5 Star Movement by the Defence Commission, we are audiding all the military engaged in international missions, but also the associations that work in those territories, that tell us another point of view. Well, the actions that make us feel really proud of Italy are those that concern the aid to the population, and precisely to that aspect we destine only 91,7 million euros. We need to invest more in this direction. In this respect, it is clear that when the reflectors and microphones are off, talking to everyone, we all agree, but then, in the end, even within this House, we see an absolutely unacceptable hypocrisy. I appeal to all those senators who have opposed, even vehemently, this decree-law and who will then find themselves voting on it, with the excuse of supporting the military. But here we do not support the military and the workers, we support the evil choices of a foreign and defence policy that is not the Italian one, it is that of the United States of America, it is the one that is imposed on us by Germany. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is not the one that is decided in Italy, otherwise the Government would be present at this moment with the Minister of Defense Pinotti, who could answer the many questions that have emerged. Moving on, we always talk about numbers, because they're important. In the last Stability Act, a sum of EUR 245 million was allocated to a fund to combat terrorist action for national security. Well, of these 245 million euros, with this decree-law as many as 112 million have been moved for international missions. At such an important time - you have all seen what happened last night in Turkey - how can the Minister take responsibility for moving 112 million out of 245 (i.e. almost 50%) to other missions? That is absolutely unacceptable! But let's move on. I always turn to the citizens who are outside: what we have pointed out in Article 4 is a regalia that Italy does, as if it were Santa Claus: it gives - let's say - weapons to the whole world, but above all to nations that, from the point of view of respect for human rights, do not respect the rules at all. In front of this, can Italy take the responsibility to say that to these nations it does not deliver arms because those weapons that today would deliver for a purpose can be used a tomorrow by ISIS, even against Italy itself? Can we take that responsibility or not? Where's the minister? Why don't you give these answers? That's not what Senator Santangelo or the 5 Star Movement says. Gentlemen, there are specific complaints. There is a UN report - exactly on June 5, 2015 - which denounces all the crimes committed in Somalia, where children are used for war. And what are we going to do in that nation? We're gonna go supply the tools we need to wiretap, and then we're gonna mask this thing with some musical instruments? Attention: we can send them, musical instruments, but those to make war not, because Article 11 of the First part of the Constitution speaks clearly: Italy repudiates war. The hypocrisy that you all show, especially you who are in charge at this time, is truly disgusting: we cannot arm others and have a clear conscience in saying that we reject war, while in the meantime others are killing themselves. It is absolutely unacceptable because you have specific responsibilities in this. Don't curl your nose if I raise my voice, don't do it. I challenge you, on the issues we are dealing with, to tell us the opposite of what we are saying. We need to start talking about a new model of defence for Italy. We need to talk about a defense that is sustainable for the DNA of this nation, that is, the reception and not the offense. The defense is fine. We want a sustainable defence, especially from a financial point of view. It is unacceptable for Italy to carry out programmes such as the F-35 programme. Again, I challenge anyone to tell me how many F-35s have been produced. Did you go to see with your own eyes what was produced in the base of Cameri? I'm telling you, together with two other MPs, I went... [[Call the president back.]] Madam President, I would like two more minutes, which are the ones lost because of the interruptions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u202	Okay, but I invite you to conclude, Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u203	SANTANGELO (M5S). Gentlemen, zero planes have been produced. Italy assembled aircraft with pieces arrived from the United States of America to Genoa and, from there, brought to Cameri, where tens of billions of euros were spent that we could and had to devote to other. Let us try to reduce and rationalise this machine, because it is absolutely unsustainable. Let us read the program of this Government and this majority, which are filled with references to peace, except then, in the end, leave not to us present here, but to the next generations a future made of wars. That is absolutely unacceptable. I am going to conclude because my time is running out. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement will vote against the measure, but it is also a vote in favour of the thousands of soldiers who perform an excellent task under unacceptable conditions. Ours is a no-convinced of the terrible choice the government makes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u204	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u206	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, a few Members of the majority have just praised the sense of responsibility of some opposition groups who have always voted in favour of the measures for the support, financing and extension of military missions abroad. Forza Italia and the center-right have voted in favour of such measures even when the vote was decisive to allow governments (if I remember well, the one led by Prodi) to have a majority that otherwise would not have been because of the disagreements that, then as today, were present inside the left. We will also vote in favour of the measure today, but I would like to say one thing to President Casini and President Schifani, who previously voted against some amendments that could reasonably have been shared and supported. President Casini said that he appreciated our responsibility towards the armed forces and the issues of security and military missions, which still leads us to vote in favour today, although with some difficulty for the reasons we have expressed both in the Commission and in the course of today's debate and which I will repeat even now in the explanation of vote. On some points I would have expected more rigour and precision. I say this - and I also say this to some of my colleagues who will vote against the measure - because the bill in question contains not two diamonds, but two things that are the opposite (you find the image, which I do not want to evoke not to say something not pleasant). I am referring to the amendment that is in fact in favour of terrorism, because it disarms those in Egypt who are fighting terrorism, and to the story of EUNAVFOR Med, which will have to be clarified sooner or later. But keep it up. One of the reasons for the loss of consensus in Europe, in European governments and also in Renzi is the suicidal immigration policy. Why then do we vote in favour of the measure despite these two issues? As these two events have emerged, they have generated a great deal of discussion and no mention has been made of the other issues, but the measure under consideration refinances a number of missions. We therefore wish to express our vote in favour of those carabinieri who have restored legality in Kosovo, of those targets and belonging to the Sassari Brigade and of all the departments of our Armed Forces that, in many parts of Africa and Asia, have offered, even now, a contribution to the rehabilitation of the territories. I am thinking of those soldiers of ours who in Afghanistan contribute, with difficulty and serious risk, to consolidating institutions that - God willing - may sooner or later be self-sufficient, avoiding the risk that the Taliban will regain those territories. There are many other missions, small and large, that throughout the African and Asian area and also elsewhere (I think of the area of the former Yugoslavia) continue with great sacrifice of our military, since we have paid a price in terms of human lives. I am thinking, for example, of the decision that the international community made a long time ago to extend the mission to Afghanistan. We had predicted this need. We are not subordinate to the choices of the United States of America and there would be much to say about the budget of the Obama Presidency, after eight years: a catastrophic budget. Just see the map of the world as it was eight years ago and how it is now, with the advance of Islamic fundamentalism, the tragedy of the Islamic State that occupies the territories, the errors of evaluation on Arab Springs and everything else. We had foreseen that the mission in Afghanistan should be extended, because an untimely withdrawal would facilitate a reconquest by Taliban and fundamentalists. Today, compared to the years of Al Qaeda, fundamentalism has taken steps forward because it has conquered pieces of territory. Al Qaeda, a very dangerous criminal organization and protagonist of heinous attacks also on the Western world, as well as in the Arab and Asian areas, has seen its overcoming, because the Islamic State, compared to Al Qaeda, has pieces of territory, banks and oil wells. During the examination of this measure, a few agendas and remarks that we and our colleagues in the League have made also concerned the mistakes that are being made towards Russia, with NATO maneuvers as if we were in front of the Soviet Russia of the 1970s. The era of blockades and opposition justified a guarding and defensive attitude. Today Putin gave lessons to the West, intervening with Russia's mission to Syria. Those who boasted for the liberation of some areas of great cultural and archaeological value, thank the expedition of Putin, who liberated those areas, not the vileness of the West, who witnessed massacres in silence and impotence. We give support and solidarity to our military, who participate in these missions, and we believe that Italy also has additional duties to face. We will see how the story of Libya and many other events will evolve. These are the reasons for our vote, because at this moment - it is 19.33 - there are so many senators who listen and there are also citizens outside, in so many parts of the world and with a different time zone there are boys and girls who are defending legality and democracy. We give them a vote in favour, but not to a government, President Casini, which today has distinguished itself in an absurd way. I want to reiterate the reasons that leave us bitterness in voting in favour, looking at that Italy of pride and legality, which also makes a contribution to the people. It has been discussed in the Commission and in this House whether these missions also help the people. But of course they give it; everywhere they guarantee meals and medical assistance. We could have - and I say this to the Presidency - perhaps also put in place those rules on the body of the Red Cross, which are nevertheless necessary, the Red Cross, whose dismantling in stages we have not frankly understood. As far as the issue of Egypt is concerned, I would like to reiterate in an explanation of vote that we want the truth about the case of Regeni, but we want it from everyone. I said it this morning and I'll say it again. In fact, if our Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome had difficulty going to Egypt and encountering too much reluctance, it had as much difficulty going to Cambridge, where the professors who sent Regens to Egypt did not provide the necessary elements of knowledge and truth about their co-responsibility. What had he been sent to do? What risk has that boy been exposed to? I also read the names this morning. I appreciated the words of Senator Giuseppe Esposito, but his Group did not follow him. I did not see Senator Esposito in the Chamber, perhaps he spoke in dissent: you could have meditated on what he, as vice president of COPASIR, said. Senator Latorre, you had to put a piece in it today. I am sorry for the Undersecretary Rossi, whom I have known for many years and which I appreciate; therefore I suspend the judgment on the Government, also because they have sent you forward, Undersecretary Rossi. In one of my speeches I mentioned the presence of Minister Pinotti, who is a senator and who often honors us with his presence. We understand the commitments that the Minister of Defence has and that do not allow him to be here every day, because he must be the Minister of Defence, in Italy and in the world. But today I saw that he took part in the question time in the Chamber and so he could also come here and explain to us where these spare parts are and what happens. Senator Latorre, protagonist of the process of modernization of the Italian left, today showed us that he was communist too, because, with some reminiscence, he gave us a speech to appease the anxieties of the left on that amendment and on that story. Today Senator Latorre said something left, as Nanni Moretti would say, also inventing himself to have gone to the port of Taranto to see if there were spare parts or not. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Stay away from the port of Taranto, because we have read that even the events of ENI and Basilicata passed from the port of Taranto: she who has nothing to do with those events does not go to the port of Taranto, which is a risky place for the left; come to the Senate and go elsewhere, which is much better! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] I know yours was a joke, because you don't do these tests. You can demonstrate in a thousand ways the Italian positions on the case of Regens and ask the truth, but not, after the attack in Istanbul, disarm Egypt that fights against terrorism. And we, while criticizing the reluctance on the Regeni story and demanding the truth, are in solidarity with a people who have suffered the attacks of terrorism many times and this applies to the Egyptian people as to many other peoples. As far as EUNAVFOR Med is concerned, you brought 12,000 non-EU countries to Italy in four days. Phase three doesn't go off, phase two goes on, keep going. You have management on Monday, you wonder why you have lost a few votes; we too have to ask ourselves a lot of questions, so I prevent you because we also have our problems and we are aware of them. But if you continue to bring this plethora of illegals, know that the more you bring and the more voters you lose. Keep it up: neither Africa nor Italy is helped in this way. But we vote in favour of our armed forces, not your choices. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u207	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u209	LATORRE (PD). Madam President, first of all I would like to say that I hope and believe that this is the last one that we are voting on a decree-law on international missions, finally passing, with the approval of the framework law, to the possibility of a programming that avoids a constant return and also exposes to the risk sometimes, because of the delays that can also objectively be determined, of having moments of cover for our military and our missions. Therefore I hope that the House of Deputies will speed up the time of this approval and that we can really conclude this rite that - alas - has been going on for a long time, with decrees-laws that from time to time do not allow to have a strong and programmatic discussion with respect to the international commitments of the country and then delegate the Government to the practical management of these passages. We too, in confirming our vote in favour, want to reiterate how this measure coincides - I would just like to make this point in my speech - with an extremely delicate moment, in a very problematic scenario, in which the terrorist offensive continues to be very dangerous and very worrying. I am thinking of what has happened in these hours in Turkey and I take advantage of this opportunity, after we have spent a minute of recollection this morning, to reaffirm our solidarity and closeness, and I believe that the whole of Parliament is in favour of Turkey, that people and that Government. 7.40 p.m. (Follows LATORRE). This of the international missions is a fundamental chapter of our country's foreign policy and the sign of our country's commitment to a European dimension, all the more so at a time when the European project is also exposed to those risks and difficulties also signalled by the outcome of the British referendum. Let us not forget that Britain is a key partner in our security and defence policies and that this British decision requires us to speed up a process of building the European defence system. However, I would like to say to my colleague Mr Gasparri that I believe it would be a political mistake to enter into a collision course with one of the few exemplary moments of European initiative in the field of defence and security, namely the EUNAVFOR Med project. This project has been extended for a year and now finally, even in the light of the United Nations Security Council Resolution, it is a programme that allows to train, on the one hand, the coastguard and the maritime component of the Libyan army supported by the new Government and, on the other, to control the waters and all the traffic that goes through those waters. I say that I believe that it would be a political mistake because, in the debate on this issue, the request to suspend this mission is in contradiction to this requirement and this priority. I would also like to say, all the more in the light of that cognitive investigation, my dear colleague Mr Santangelo, that even by virtue of your initiative we have carried on and that it has allowed an important contribution of deepening, that what is emerging is exactly what emerges, in some way, also from the contents of this decree. I am therefore surprised that your Group, which is also making a contribution to this work in the Commission, which I regard as a constructive and positive contribution, but which I consider to be critical, then decides not to vote for such a measure. In it, in fact, implicitly shows the idea of an organization of the defence system and of a role of our country that is placed in an international dimension and that assumes the theme of the missions as a priority objective of that work of peace keeping and even of state building that is allowing to build a real Italian model, to which also the other countries look. Of course, this policy and this idea of the set-up of the security and defence system can in no way fail to the principle that peace and security are two sides of the same coin, and that there is no peace policy that also prescinds from the ability to guarantee the security of our societies. These are two basic ingredients, which must go hand in hand. A great country like ours cannot in any way go beyond that border that separates politics from witnessing, because a defence system and a security policy cannot be expressed only in a witness, but must be able to combine all these elements. I would like to conclude, because we have had the opportunity, in the course of the debate on the amendments, to enter into the substance of some of the issues, last, on the amendment on the Regen case. As Mr Casini, President of the Foreign Commission, has rightly pointed out, this amendment had and has the meaning of wanting to reaffirm a will and commitment, which do not undermine relations with that country, but which demand truth. And I would like to say to my colleague, Mr Romani, that he wants to bring the text of that amendment to the Egyptian ambassador, who, when he does, tells him that this Parliament wants the truth about the case of the Regeni. Tell him and remind him. To conclude, international missions are one of the privileged instruments at our disposal to address the complex crisis and to implement an international policy adapted to the new difficulties and the new nature of crises and conflicts. This is especially true in difficult times such as those we are experiencing. Social and economic tensions and emergencies make it more difficult to explain why we engage in such distant missions. In fact, they are not so far away and there we play the decisive game also for our security, for peace and for the future of our country. In this spirit and with these determinations we shall vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u210	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u211	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u212	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I disagree with my Group with regret, because I have always voted in favour. However, this way - typical of an attitude of the left - with which Italy has already decided that the Egyptian Government is responsible, it is conniving, it covers the truth and must confess a truth that does not understand what it is, but that it is useful to those who have already judged that Government guilty, is a very serious error that involves, through this choice, weakening the fight against terrorism. This is a devastating and contradictory signal. I would remind my colleagues that we are the country which, after 36 years, has not yet presented to the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) the final report on our tragedy with 81 deaths. We're the country that still keeps the secret and the secret of state. We are the country that does not want to know the role of the Libyans, the Palestine Liberation Front and autonomy, when it organized and foretold a reprisal against the innocent, just in June 1980. Why don't you know these things? Why shouldn't they go deeper? You see, why am I abstaining? Why, if it were true what so many of you say, that France and the United States are liars and murderers, as is said publicly and is sung in Bologna in performances, why then the Italian Government, in this Parliament that applies sanctions to Egypt, totally silent with the United States and France? Why does no one raise the problem with governments who are accused of murdering 81 of our innocent fellow citizens? Why don't you take initiatives? I tell you: because we are strong with the weak and weak with the strong and we come to results that are vile - I must tell the government - even grotesque. I welcome the fact that the Government has told Parliament that I am going back to Parliament, but it seems to me vile and grotesque to the attitude of a Parliament that puts the fight against international terrorism at risk by slapting our ally in the face and at the same time silent about something that I think is lunar, that is, about the bomb that would be placed and that would be covered. No one wants to go and see the secret cards that tell another story, but at the same time does not say a word to Governments that are accused every day of being complicit in that infamy. Tell me if that is the behaviour of a Parliament! And in the absolute silence of all. [[Comments from the PD Group]] To date no one, of all those who have spoken, has asked to remove the most secret or has asked to make light and truth. We ask Egypt to shed light and truth on that happening, but we do not ask our Government to take away the secret about events involving 81 Italian citizens. [[Comments from the PD Group]] These are the reasons why, regretting this absolutely negative aspect of the measure, I shall abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u213	Before we proceed to the final vote, I warn you that the proposal for coordination C1 was tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Vattuone, and is being distributed. As this proposal intervenes on the financial cover, I would ask the President of the Commission, Mr Tonini, if there are any comments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u214	Mr President, the checks made, of course also with the support of the offices, make up the accounts, as they say in these cases. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u215	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for coordination C1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u216	Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 2389 PRESIDENT. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Vattuone. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the final vote. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. I would also ask you to remove all the cards included in the voting arrangements that do not correspond to the senator's presence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Secretary Senators and the Quaestors to remove these cards. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 67 of 16 May 2016 extending the international missions of the Armed and Police Forces, development cooperation initiatives and support for reconstruction processes and participation in initiatives of international organisations for the consolidation of peace and stabilisation processes, as well as urgent security measures." Extension of the deadline for the exercise of legislative delegation of powers. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u219	Razzi (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to ask my question 4-05643 addressed to the Ministers for the Environment and Agriculture who, after almost three months, have not received an answer. There are two important points in my question. Almost a year after the stop of shellfish fishing in the cities from Francavilla al Mare to San Salvo, throughout the Chietina coast, clams do not grow more than 11 millimeters and, unfortunately, if they do not arrive from 22 to 25 millimeters, they cannot be fished. There are about 21 boats standing still, on many of which fishermen are still paying the mortgage and families are unable to survive. I would like to add another very important consideration regarding the beach on the promenade Giacomo Matteotti of Pescara, one of the most beautiful beaches in Italy, polluted by the river Pescara. In front of this nobody does anything, the purifications are at zero. I think the government needs to give an answer. The Ministers for the Environment and Agriculture must call for action, otherwise they will suffer from fishing tourism: restaurants and beaches are empty.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u222	Mr Warra (PD). Mr President, with this late sitting speech I begin today in the Senate a relay with which, together with many other senators, we will remember every woman who will be killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Pelino]] We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. Monday night, in Modena, a woman, Bernadette Fella, was killed by the former cohabitant. Tuesday night was the turn of Manuela Precerutti, killed in Dorno, Pavia, by her partner in front of her daughter. According to the press, it was a "tragedy of madness" in the face of a "tormented love." ISTAT informs us that in Italy a woman is killed every 2.2 days and 46.3 percent of women die at the hands of their partner. The severity of sexual and physical violence has increased and cases of assisted violence are also growing. In the media violence against women is almost always described as the result of passionate motives, the stereotype of betrayed love that justified the crime of honor becomes that of jealousy, betrayal, abandonment that man has not been able to accept. The man is therefore to be compassionate, his was an extreme gesture (a raptus). An explanation, in short, that giving the culprit an attenuating, places a part of responsibility on the woman as guilty of having aroused jealousy. It is a false representation of reality. Femicide is almost always the ultimate result of a series of long-standing violent behaviors. With Law 119 of 2013 against gender violence that this Parliament approved in implementation of the Istanbul Convention, our country has recognised violence against women as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination, it has recognised that violence against women is a social phenomenon that has its roots in the power relationship, asymmetric between men and women. This is why it can be prevented by intervening on the factors that determine it. That is why a plan against violence against women has been proposed and approved. In the meantime, protective instruments have been strengthened to ensure greater safety for women under threat. However, it is necessary to ensure that these measures work and that the plan is implemented. Bernadette Fella had denounced the violence suffered in 2012; the trial will be celebrated in September 2016; the other night she was killed. What didn't work in the protection network? An appeal to the Minister for Equal Opportunities and to the Government everything: monitor the application, the merits and the limits of Law No. 119 of 2013 and above all give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. An appeal to the media: stop justifying murderers and blaming women. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups) and Misto-SI-SEL.]] An appeal to the country, men and women: 160 women killed every year. We can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u225	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). In a question, also signed by you, President Gasparri, who presides at this time of the Assembly, I have been asking for many months that the Government reveals a fact that is certainly of public interest: who signed the measures that authorized the company A4, which runs the Brescia-Padova motorway, to extend the presentation of certain documents functional to the continuation of the concession, which yields more than 300 million per year of receipts, about half of which are of profit. Thanks to these extensions, the company A4, which is mainly privately owned, is selling to a foreign company (the news is not very clear) for more than one billion euros the concession that the State has given it. It would be interesting to know who, arbitrarily, by amending an act which was also approved by Parliament, namely the 2007 Convention between ANAS and A4 company, has allowed this private company to make a profit of one billion. Well, the Government has finally come to answer this question after very long requests and has not said the name of the person who signed it, nor how many acts are there, nor when they have been signed; It is not even known whether the act was signed under the responsibility of the Monti Government or the Letta Government, since it was the first signature in 2013; a second signature certainly took place under the Renzi Government, but the Government does not reveal this secret. I asked for the documentation, through access to the documents provided for in Law No 241 of 1990 and the Ministry did not respond. I appealed to the Committee on Access, which said that the Member has no right of access because he already has questions, but the Government does not reply. In the meantime, I will ask the government to use the proxy to amend the access law, clarifying this aspect. In the meantime, I will be interested in the issue of the National Anti-Corruption Authority, because if the Government does not want to reveal the identity of those who have signed a signature that costs a billion to the Italian taxpayer, it is obviously because there is some conflict of interest or worse. It is therefore a matter which I regret to entrust to judicial or parajudicial authorities, given that parliamentary prerogatives are being trampled on and ridiculed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u228	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I read the title of one of the news that appeared today in the newspaper "La Repubblica": "Genova," a two-year-old girl in resuscitation for the vegan diet. The news was not only reported by that newspaper, but by many national newspapers and also by RAI2 at lunchtime. Well, I contacted directly the hospital Gaslini of Genoa and this news that reports of a child that would end up in resuscitation because of the vegan food of the mother (so also of the child who has a year) is actually not truthful, because, just as reported to me about an hour ago by the health director of the hospital Gaslini of Genoa, it turns out that the child, during the feeding of the first months of life after the weaning, would also have taken Parmesan. Obviously, as you can imagine, those who follow a vegan diet not only do not eat meat or fish, but also derived products such as milk, eggs and cheeses. Therefore, if the diet included also the Parmesan is absolutely not compatible with the vegan one, then probably the mother did not follow a vegan diet with all the appropriate measures. Not only that, but this news, besides being false, is yet another exploitation. In fact, it would be enough to think of 15 October last year, when the news of a child in hospital had appeared on the "Il Gazzettino" of Treviso because they are vegan. Well, even in that case I contacted the health director of the hospital in Treviso and at that very moment I was told the same circumstance, that the child had had a problem of weaning as they have many children. It is, therefore, the umpteenth instrumentalization carried out by the usual known who exploit these personal tragedies to strike those who have chosen this type of completely vegetal diet, while vegans are people who deserve respect and attention. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u229	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-650.ana.u230	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 30 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.06 p.m.
