ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 16 February.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u4	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, last February 19th Umberto Eco, one of the greatest Italian and European intellectuals of our time, died. With him disappears a figure with brilliant and multifaceted traits, as well as a protagonist of the world's cultural landscape. Critic, essayist, writer and semiologist of international fame, man of boundless culture, Umberto Eco was born in Alexandria on January 5, 1932. In 1954, he graduated, at the age of twenty-two, at the University of Turin, carrying out a thesis on the aesthetic thought of Tommaso d'Aquino and beginning to deal with a field of investigation - that of culture and medieval philosophy - that he would no longer have abandoned. Precisely from the development of the degree thesis comes its first essay, "The aesthetic problem in St. Thomas," published in 1956, and then resumed with more and more acute and sophisticated updates. After having worked, from 1954 to 1959, as editor of RAI's cultural programs, in the 1960s he first taught at the Faculty of Letters and Philosophy of the University of Milan, then at the Faculties of Architecture of the University of Florence and the Politecnico of Milan. He was part of the avant-garde literary movement Gruppo 63, revealing himself to be an acute and brilliant theorist. In 1975 he became an ordinary professor of semiotics at the University of Bologna, where he founded an academic school of great prestige and vivacity. At the same university, in the years 1976-1977 and 1980-2013, he directs the Institute of Communication and Performing Sciences, while, since 2008, he continues to carry out his academic activity as professor emeritus and president of the High School of Humanistic Studies. Echo was awarded many honorary titles by European and American universities, receiving forty honorary degrees. Since 2010, he has been a member of the Accademia dei Lincei. During his intense scientific activity, Umberto Eco has carried out investigations in many directions, with particular reference to the history of aesthetics, avant-garde poetics, mass communication techniques and consumer culture. The studies on the influence of the mass media in mass culture have led him to write numerous contributions in newspapers and magazines, then merged into the "Minimum Diary" (1963) and "Apocalyptic and integrated" (1964). The semiotic studies also led to the publication in 1968 of the absent structure, followed by the General Semiotic Treaty in 1975 and, in 1984, the Semiotics and the Philosophy of Language. 1980 was the year of the debut in the field of fiction, with the famous novel "The name of the rose" - later translated into 47 languages - which, in addition to being a great success of public and critics, gave Eco a well-deserved international fame. The multiple and varied cultural production of an intellectual like Umberto Eco can only be vaguely sketched in the few lines of a commemorative speech. Above all, it is difficult not to remember his exceptional curiosity for all social phenomena, a curiosity that led him to analyze and help us understand the most various social and cultural manifestations of contemporary life. Surely his disappearance leaves a void difficult to fill in in the cultural and civil consciousness of our country. In renewing the deep and sincere participation of the Senate of the Republic in the pain of the family, colleagues, students and the entire academic and scientific community, I invite the Assembly to observe a host of recollections. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u11	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, a few times, even with very prominent personalities, we can say in words of truth what we say today about Umberto Eco: he was a great Italian. As you recalled, President, he was an extraordinary innovator, a fantastic narrator, a writer of sure success, author of novels and essays of which he sold millions and millions of copies worldwide. He loved philosophy and history, semiotics and journalism, politics and television, new technologies and ancient incunabula, books and comic books. But in the end, his true vocation, the most deeply rooted passion of his whole life, were the school and the relationship with teaching. To his students he said "Be precise": lay at the foundation of everything you say or do the richness of your knowledge; remember that modern thought can also draw nourishment from the Greek philosophy of the fifteenth century before Christ or from the Jewish theology of some millennia ago, from the teachings of Socrates and those of St. Thomas Aquinas. In a word, Eco recalled that for the government of the present time and the preparation of the future time we must know and study our past. Very great frequenter of libraries, the key word of his teaching was "encyclopedia." He explained to his pupils the noble value of learning, thus placing the breadth and depth of knowledge on an indispensable basis of every culture. The fact that he considered one of his favourite children, among many more celebrated, his essay "How to do a degree thesis" says a lot. In addition to being intellectual, teacher and writer endowed with a gigantic culture, today I want to remember him also for his extraordinary modernity, for his ironic and detached interpretation of a world where the truth lies only in the thought able to connect the humanistic disciplines with the scientific ones, the social analyses with the historical experiences and the technological revolution, the secular thought with the religious one, the political doctrine with the economic sciences. In our time, a time of specialization and analysis of detail, Umberto Eco represented true modernity, which today consists in being able to give back to unity the billions of fragments of information of the past and the present that contribute, all together, to determine the reality in which we live. Eco taught us that we must know "the encyclopedia," but we must also know that in the world we are living "everything is held together." And this spirit of Umberto Eco, made of knowledge and synthesis, must also be ours. All our knowledge, all our political capacity, all our loyalty to our parties, are of little use if we lack that vision of national interest which is the first of the reasons for which we were elected. The great novel that gave Umberto Eco the planetary glory is "The name of the rose", an extraordinary story and together an unmissable fresco of culture, history and medieval civilization, with all the complex facets of beauty and monstrosity that always accompany the centuries of the great transformations and great changes of history. In this exceptional work, in this fascinating novel, Umberto Eco has once again revealed its inimitable modernity. The name of the rose was written by Eco in the years in which the streets of our country were bloody by terrorism and contained the incitement to use tolerance and culture against all political violence. Today, we too live in a time in the middle, in a time of transition, a time of radical changes that take place in some areas of the planet in peace, in others in war. Legal institutions change, institutions change, customs change and, of many nations, borders change. Even people today, like the characters of the novel "The name of the rose" are victims of anguish, neurosis, strong insecurities and fear of being left without more defense in a world that daily changes before our eyes and all this Umberto Eco saw it clearly and told us wonderfully. He is, really, a great Italian. I was lucky enough to meet Umberto Eco in the years I took care of printing. I add, therefore, my personal sorrow for his disappearance to the mourning of all the senators and all the senators of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator De Cristofaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u14	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Indro Montanelli, one of the greatest journalists of the twentieth century, reproached Italian intellectuals for being an isolated caste, an apogee in which one welcomed and spoke to one another, excluding almost those who were not part of their world. Certainly he was not an intellectual of the genus Umberto Eco: a refined intellectual, a devourer of books but, at the same time, very interested in people and society, always curious, oriented to understand and eager to be understood. His interest in influence in the media society, in television, his dedication to semiotics and his involvement in comics, photo-romances, popular music, essays on James Bond, enigmatics and appendage novels, the maze and secret societies, demonstrate the anxiety of a man who devoured books but who, at the same time, wanted to dialogue with people. And it is a merit that must be recognized and, as a natural consequence, leads him to have been a great collaborator of a weekly newspaper and many newspapers. Forza Italia remembers with respect this intellectual, although sometimes deployed in a violent way towards our Group and its leader. I think that death is healthy and that we must keep in mind the ideas of the interlocutor, always respecting and honoring him for what good he has done in favor of Italian society. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u17	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, the 5 Star Movement also joins the memory of Umberto Eco. We will not enumerate again all the fields of knowledge and the many important initiatives of which Eco was a fundamental propulsive soul. Those who like me had the honour of attending the University of Bologna, keep some personal memories of this great professor, because at the lessons of Eco we went even if they were not part of their own course of study. Umberto Eco has given so much to the University of Bologna, founding and giving impetus to a part of the department of the disciplines for the show, to the degree course in communication sciences and to the high school of humanistic studies. Today we wish to remember Umberto Eco for the countless life lessons he gave out of the university classrooms, simply by living. We believe that, with those lessons, Eco has taught all of us and will continue to teach future generations the importance of cultivating study and reading, of being able to question their own beliefs (even if they change them) and to cultivate the curiosity and investigative interest of those who are not content with superficial knowledge, but go deep into things in order to develop a healthy and full critical spirit and navigate safely in the vast sea of information and the web. He taught us to observe reality without snobbery, but taking in every human expression a universal lesson. We like to greet him by remembering one of his famous phrases in an article entitled: "Because books lengthen life" Umberto Eco wrote: "Whoever does not read, at the age of 70 will have lived one life: his own. Those who read will have lived 5,000 years: there was when Cain killed Abel, when Renzo married Lucia, when Leopardi admired the infinite (...) because reading is an immortality backwards. Today we thank Eco because with his monumental work he allows us every day to live an immortality backwards. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, Mixed and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u20	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, we of the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) also associate ourselves with the pain not only of the family, but of the Italians all for the death of an extraordinary Italian, Umberto Eco, who we consider early regardless of age, because he showed that he was still capable and able to give much, in terms of culture, thought and ideas, to Italian society. He was an extraordinary character: a man, a writer and an intellectual whose western culture will deal for a long time; a man who qualified as such with his simple and sober lifestyle, but also severe; a great personality, with its double dimension - unique - of refined and medievist semiologist. He spoke with the same simplicity and sharpness of the phenomenology of Mike Bongiorno and of a complex world such as that which resided in his novel "The name of the rose." But he was also a very funny writer and man. Surely he did not have a boring life and who knew him, like his friends, remembers him as a great entertainer and great conversationalist, ready to have fun in company, singing and dancing. He could even play the flute. The whole world wants to remember him and thank him for what he has left in terms of cultural heritage, knowledge and sincere humanity: the highest level of knowledge and study between humanistic philosophy, medieval history, ethics, semiotics, communication science, an unattainable achievement recognized worldwide. He was able to tell, with words understandable to all, the complexity of the world. We remember it and want, at this moment, to turn away the ghosts of a character that was probably ideologically hostile to us. We accepted it and appreciated it despite its ideas. Among his aphorisms, what I remember best and which struck me was the following: "Whoever does not read, at 70 years of age will have lived only one life: his own. Whoever reads will have lived 5,000 years. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u23	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, listening to him or reading him, there was always a question of how many hours Umberto Eco daily was spent. No one like him could be defined at the same time as a philosopher, philologist, semiologist, novelist or essayist; no one like him and not only in Italy. We were in fact surprised to learn that from France to the United States, as in many other parts of the world, its disappearance was the news of the opening of television channels of information. But in reality we were surprised because, immersed as we are in the miseries of public debate, especially the political one of our country, we ended up neglecting, even simply considering it normal, the presence of a critical conscience that, in the name of culture, knowledge and research, each time risked the mists of time, was the dark and distant one of the Middle Ages as the uncertain one of our present. That culture of his, which has rightly been called exterminated, as if it had no end at all, was much more than an already rare erudition. It was because the method of his knowledge acted in depth to create each time connections, relationships and interactions of time, culture and discipline even radically distant from each other. And it is precisely here that its originality, its uniqueness as a scientist of the word, of the image, of the knowledge of the world and of human life as an open work, in order to use its happy expression. But the testimonies that have arisen in his memory in these hours, followed by the news of his disappearance, make us aware of a perhaps less well-known aspect and that we want to recall here: the dimension of Eco as a teacher, a permanent dimension, carried out in Italian, French and American universities, where now we are formed on his semiology treatises; an incalculable exercise of time, dedicated to preparing a lesson, to receiving students, to reading and discussing a thesis; a precious and unique time to convey in the most direct way the knowledge and to form the conscience of each student. It is an exercise that Umberto Eco has never delegated, as it is sometimes customary in the university, because of the fact that universities had precisely that idea and that original practice proper to a direct, free relationship, where ideas are compared and measured always, are those of those who sit in the chair as those of those who take notes. What Eco has taught us with his work and work is really something rich and complex and the time that will come after his disappearance will have to serve us to cultivate not only his memory but the critical deepening and to investigate its future developments and today still unexplored that it contains. I say this because the greatness of his cultural legacy does not only concern the immense difference in level that the world knows today, an ever more informed world, increasingly connected, increasingly seemingly documented, between knowledge and ignorance; a difference in level within which there are differences, discrimination, injustices, forms of possession and power. In Eco there is something more complex, precisely, that concerns knowledge in itself; a knowledge that in turn needs to be changed, that is never self-sufficient, that also needs new instruments, before, as we are, upheavals of the planet, the anthropology of human, artificial intelligence. I think it is possible here to place his vision - let's say neither apocalyptic nor integrated - even, for example, of breaking into the same social networks in the daily life of the multitude, determining its languages and values, almost a complete vision of the world. His, on the other hand, is a very critical and very severe vision, but critical and severe in that precise point where the use of the instrument is refined to the point of distorting the living, its autonomous point of view, the value of a lively and fertile confrontation, conflictual and democratic; just the opposite of the sometimes trivialization of the binary system of "I like" and "I don't like". This way of knowing and thinking the world could not but approach Eco, from the beginning of his journey, to a dimension that I would call democratic and progressive of society and its instrument to achieve it, that is, politics. He was the protagonist in all the battles of freedom, regarding the node between power and information, overcoming the conflict of interests, the public and culturally innovative role of RAI. He never once kept his opinion silent. I really don't think there's anything rhetorical about saying that Umberto Eco honored our country. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u26	NAPOLITANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, the speech on what Umberto Eco has represented for Italy and far beyond the borders of Italy, what we have received from him and what we lose with him today, can only be entrusted to a concert of voices and knowledge that has already been widely and with great passion manifested in the last few days. I shall therefore confine myself to remembering man in a special way, as I have known him over decades. Umberto Eco was not a man who knew everything, much less that he claimed to know everything, even though he knew a lot. In him there was never even the shadow of an attitude of presumptuousness or aristocratic superiority. Instead, it was more sensitive and close than anyone else, interpreting them, to all impulses, talents, popular tastes, to all forms of expression more direct and immediate. And when he wrote, as a brilliant narrator, he wrote for everyone and wrote for the young. To whoever approached it appeared as it was: a simple, open man, full of irony, curiosity and vital moods, a concrete and understanding sense of reality; a man always able to be in harmony with others, to transmit and to arouse sympathy. For all this, it will be remembered by many Italians of every social class and every generation. Finally, let me remind you of the contribution he made to an initiative in Quirinale in November 2014, during the Italian Presidency of the European Union, on the subject of the Europe of Culture. To the young people and girls of the high schools of different regions, gathered in the Salone dei Corazzieri, he offered, as a great master as he was, a synthesis of extraordinary communicative force of the notion of European culture: European culture as a reality grown over the long course of history, welcoming and uniting, in their multiplicity, national traditions and cultures; common European culture which no nationalistic political regression can erase and which today presents itself as an anchor of salvation for the project of peace, freedom and progress of united Europe. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u29	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Madam President, I believe that the best posthumous image of those who have really been for culture Umberto Eco has given it to us Bernard-Henri Lévy: a well without a fund of science, an almost endless reserve of intelligence. Henri Lévy recalled when, in the mid-seventies, in a crowded assembly of autonomouss in Rome, Eco tried to explain, among the screams and disputes of that drifting youth, that armed struggle was a monstrosity, a repetition of fascism, in short, a madness. They were clear words in the face of the terrorist threat, although in 1971 Eco himself had been a 757 signatories of the open letter to "l'Espresso" on the Pinelli case and of the self-denunciation of solidarity to the director of "Life Continue", accused of incitement to criminals. This contradiction marked in negative in those dramatic years so much of the culture of the left. Umberto Eco was therefore also this: a brilliant master of contradictions. In these days Vittorio Messori, to whom Eco spoke of his definitive apostasy from every religious faith, began obviously from the Catholic faith, he who as a young man had been among the leaders of the Italian Youth of Catholic Action (GIAC), and who had chosen St. Thomas Aquinas for his degree thesis. He was undoubtedly one of the most important Italian intellectuals of the twentieth century and probably the greatest since the Second World War: philosopher, semiologist, essayist, attentive scholar of the mass media in all their facets and in all social implications; remains legendary his "Phenomenology of Mike Bongiorno" and remains fundamental his cultural dam against the dangers of the Internet. Echo was also a formidable narrator, but his name must inevitably be inscribed in the ranks of those left-wing intellectuals who, in the years of Berlusconi Governments, have never stopped, even for a moment, asserting the ethical and political superiority of the left on the right, giving it an almost anthropological connotation. However, with respect to the too often grey and conformist panorama of left-wing intelligence, Eco had the rare gift of irony and above all of self-irony, which therefore smoothed its fate. I believe that, in order to remember Umberto Eco in the most worthy way, it is necessary to re-read "Il nome della rosa" (The name of the rose), in which we reconstruct medieval Italy of religious disputes and clashes between the papacy and the empire, and "Il pendolo di Foucault" (The Foucault Pendulum), two of the very rare works thanks to which Italian culture has managed to impose itself worldwide. Echo was an authentic giant of thought, but also a great lover of humor: this is how his great friend Moni Ovadia reminded him; a voice that will miss a culture that he much more than others has helped to age. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u32	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I do not very much share the need to speak on the part of individual senators when important figures such as Umberto Eco fail. However, the fact that President Zanda and even President Napolitano have spoken makes me realize that not doing so would be an institutional rudeness and, although representative of one of the smaller groups, I am going to do so with sentiment. In fact, although initially and instinctively I looked with dislike at Eco for his writing strongly pervaded by a political sentiment contrary to mine in the column . The bag of Minerva and in other his literary manifestations, having read it . The name of the rose has changed my life. And says the same Umberto Eco, when he tries to overcome the ridicule of the great novelists compared to the common saying that, if the library of Alexandria had not burned, nothing should have or could have been more written, overcoming at this point the avant-garde and writing something that said what was already written, in a different way. As President Napolitano said, as a person who knew so much, precisely because he knew so much, he knew he didn't know. Writing "The name of the rose," he rewrites it as a historical novel, retracing the track of "I promessi spoglii" (The Promised Marriage), through the discovery of the manuscript of Adso; he does so by writing a historical novel that, in addition to retracing the tradition of the Manzoni novel, pays tribute to the English literary tradition, calling the protagonist William of Baskerville precisely in homage to what he recognized as a great novelist, Sir Conan Doyle, who had written "The Hound of the Baskervilles"; he does it, again, dividing the story in seven days as - let's remember - is divided into seven days the Old Testament. He does all this precisely because he says he does not know and must turn to what has already been written and said in the past: nothing can be said except what has already been said, in a slightly different way. In the end it ignites the library and fails to save the second part of Aristotle's poetics, which was what the monks tried to hide, because there were written the foundations of the comedy, among which - let us remember - the rice. This is the magical fulfillment of Eco. Why rice? What was the most used and fascinating slogan of the Sixty-eight? A laugh will bury you. Here Eco, then, recalls the rice in the last part and performs a miracle, which goes beyond semiology and semiotics and makes the memories speak. We just have to remember this, which he himself says in the appendix to "The name of the rose" and which makes us understand that we have found ourselves and that we have had, as a citizen of this extraordinary country, a genius. We must always remember the historical novel "The name of the rose" and everything that Umberto Eco left us, because today the subjects are us and we run the risk of a laugh burying us. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u35	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, if we could imagine a high-definition afterlife, we could find Umberto Eco wandering around with affabulatory, walking and entertaining again with signs, meanings, perception of signs and scenery always new and crowded with subjects of the classical world and of modern derivation, of lemmas, of signals, of concepts, of sounds, of visions. In short, his world, the milieu consonant with an eclectic personality with the multiform ingenuity and broad culture as he was. He left us a few days ago, making - ahinoi - Italy and Europe orphans suddenly of a protagonist, of a cultural mattress, so far able to assure the visual and audiovisual arts the authority of a prophet. He was an aesthete, even when, by supposition, he appeared sloppy and did nothing to avoid looking filthy. Eco was the antithesis of the populist dimension so popular in Italian society, denouncing with finesse arguments the frequent and pernicious recourse of politics, of the contemporary ruling class - from the administration of the state, to entrepreneurship, to publishing, to journalism, to the world of television and entertainment, to the university, to the complex field of education and the formation of public opinion - to demagogy. He was a full member of the national cultural industry, with an extraordinary knowledge of the continental organization of cultural products. Taltish also: slouch that is forgiven only to the great men. Indulgence that, in retrospect, we cannot fail to recognize to that Umberto Eco who escapes from exercising his knowledge and skills when he opposes the publishing house "Bompiani" that becomes "berlusconian" - confusing probably the militancy with the client - when, to honor of the truth, and for multiple testimonies of authoritative authors, the world Mondadori is mainly made of free spirits with a inclination to the business rather than to confirm ideological ideologies and practices, at least in the historical sense. Fascinating is his contribution to the knowledge of the Middle Ages, that historical middle age that still today marks the Italian character, the European specificity. Medievist who handed us the mystery and, unveiling it, reveals to us the peculiarity of that apparently closed society, which is the harbinger of that Renaissance and of that seventeenth century overflowing with discoveries, beauties, inventions that have ended up connoting the "Italian exception." Echo has introduced semiotics into our country. It would suffice this important primacy to assimilate it to the Fathers of the Homeland, to that category of Italians who gave more than take, in contrast to that national custom that ended up impoverishing us morally leaving us at the mercy of the thief society, that denies honesty, mortifies the fundamental concept of the common good, degrades the Constitution with the exercise of citizenship at the base. A scholarly semiologist like few, Umberto Eco will be remembered as a theorist of the rational intellectual investigation, of the mind that questions itself, of the organization of human experience. Writer, then, novelist, philosopher, linguist and semiologist. It will please the librarians if I am lovingly - I say it only with immense sympathy - I allow myself to call it a library mouse, for having wanted to ennoble that singular process of the soul before and after research, which is the frequentation of the books, the active deposits of volumes, incunabula and parchments. His most well-known masterpiece was born from this attitude, "Il nome della rosa" (The name of the rose), perhaps a happy graft of the direct knowledge of that chest of humanities that, in the Salento Abbey of Casole, knew the universal function of the protection of culture, of knowledge. You have revealed to us the name of a humble monk miniaturist, friend Eco, of that Adelmo da Otranto that today becomes paradigmatic monument of a world marked by the atrocity of ISIS, enemy of men and their luminous past. [[Applause from Senator Bruni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u36	I address the greetings of the Assembly to the students of the Higher Institute "Angelo Poliziano" of Montepulciano, in the province of Siena, who are today visiting the Senate and follow our works. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u37	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2237, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Pagliari and Lucherini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u38	Madam President, we agreed, for the sake of the economy of the times, that Senator Lucherini should carry out a unique report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u39	I call the rapporteur, Senator Lucherini.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the text before us extends time limits provided for in legislative provisions. This is the well-known thousand-pronged decree, on which I also refer on behalf of my colleague, Mr Pagliari, rapporteur for the 1st Commission, who will then reply. The measure began its parliamentary process in the Chamber of Deputies, which largely amended it by holding it for about four weeks and approving it on 10 February, after an iter in the relevant Commissions started on 14 January. This made it impossible for this branch of Parliament to amend the decree-law, subject to the expiry of the deadline for conversion into law, as provided for in Article 77 (3) of the Constitution. The measure was examined by the 1st and 5th Commission at its meetings on 16, 17 and 18 February. With regard to the amending activity, apart from the amendments which the Presidency has declared unacceptable, most of the amending proposals have been transformed by the proposers into agendas, largely accepted by the Government. Rule 97 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, as interpreted by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, with regard to the scrutiny of the amending proposals, lays down very strict and precise criteria, which have in fact led to the impponibility of a large number of amending proposals. With regard to some doubts, which were raised during the examination in the Commission about the homogeneity of the measure, it should be recalled that the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 22 of 2012 has recognized that the requirement of homogeneity can be considered satisfied when the provisions, although they adhere to different and heterogeneous material fields, respond in any case to the unitary ratio of intervening urgently on the expiration of terms whose course would be harmful for interests considered important by the Government and the Parliament or to affect existing situations - although related to different objects and subjects - that require regulatory interventions of a temporal nature. Before moving on to the report, in the strict sense, I would like to express, on behalf of my fellow Senator Pagliari, my sincere thanks to the colleagues of the two Commissions and to the offices, for their constructive cooperation, which has greatly facilitated the course of the work. Having to report on the whole measure, I begin with the profiles within the competence of the 1st Commission. Article 1 extends time limits for public administrations. In particular, paragraphs 1 to 3 extend to 31 December 2016 a series of provisions on permanent recruitment in specific public administrations. Paragraph 4 extends to 31 December 2016 the forecast which provides for the suspension of the recruitment procedures of senior management. Paragraph 4-a differs from 31 December 2015 to 30 April 2016 the deadline for issuing the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers with which the guidelines for the planning of the recruitment of university staff for the three-year period 2016-2018 must be established. Paragraph 5 extends to the whole of 2016 the derogation concerning the personnel of the National Firefighter Corps placed in command position or out of role in the constitutional bodies, the offices of direct collaboration of the Ministers and the offices of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Paragraph 6 extends to December 31, 2016 the deadline from which the promotion to senior executive of the State Police will be subject to the frequency with the profit of an update course. Paragraph 7 extends to 31 December 2016 the application of the same obligation for access to the position of first manager. Paragraphs 7-a to 7-d concern the reopening of the deadlines for the submission of applications for recognition of Partisan qualifications and fallen in the struggle for liberation. Paragraph 8 shall intervene in order to extend by one year the transitional arrangements relating to the placement in the framework of reductions for the rank of colonel and general of the Carabinieri's weapon of special and technical-logistic roles. Paragraph 9 provides that Provinces and Metropolitan Cities may, for proven necessity, extend fixed-term employment contracts until 31 December 2016. The new paragraph 9-a provides for the same extension for Provinces which have failed to comply with the Internal Stability Pact of 2015. Paragraph 9-b, on the one hand, amends the term for the first elections of the Presidents of Province and Provincial Councils, after the entry into force of Law No 56 of 2014, postponing it from thirty to ninety days from the natural expiration of the mandate or from the decadence or early dissolution of the provincial organs, and, on the other hand, provides for the application, even in the case of elections after 2014, of the provision according to which, at the natural expiry of the Provincial Councils, the President of the Province, assuming also the functions of the Provincial Council, and the Provincial Council remain in office free of charge for the ordinary administration and urgent acts. Paragraph 9-c provides that the right for the Provinces to extend to 31 December 2016 fixed-term employment contracts for the strict needs related to the needs of continuity of services in compliance with specific financial constraints, the Internal Stability Pact and the current legislation to limit the overall expenditure of staff, also operates for coordinated and continuous collaboration contracts. Paragraph 10 provides for the use of own funds by the Calabria Region for procedures for the stabilisation of personnel of the municipalities. Paragraph 10- bis provides, first of all, that the validity of the rankings when the teaching staff is exhausted is extended to the school year 2018-2019. Paragraph 10-b differs from 31 December 2017 the period within which the final diplomas awarded by institutions of high training and institutions of artistic and musical specialization must be obtained for the purpose of equivalence to second-level academic diplomas. Paragraph 10-c authorizes the Region of Umbria and its municipalities involved, in order to continue the technical-administrative activities aimed at completing the reconstruction process in the earthquake zones, to conclude for the three years 2016-2018 fixed-term employment contracts for a maximum period of three years. Paragraph 10-d provides that the resources allocated to the financing of the funds managing supplementary pension of the employees of the administrations of the State, in the year 2016, can be used, for a maximum amount of 214,000 euros, also for the financing of the costs of starting the funds of supplementary pension of the employees of the general government. Article 2 of the Decree-Law differs from 1 July 2016 the entry into force of the mandatory digital signature in the administrative process. Paragraph 1 extends by six months the period from which it is compulsory, in the administrative process, to sign with digital signature all the acts and measures of the judge, his assistants, the staff of the judicial offices and the parties. Paragraph 2 adds a paragraph 1-a to Article 13 of Annex 2 of the same administrative process code, which provides for the start of a trial phase for the gradual introduction of the telematic administrative process. Paragraph 2-a extends for two years the temporary restoration of the detached sections of island court to Ischia, Lipari and Portoferraio. Paragraph 2-b intervenes on the law of reform of the forensic profession, with particular reference to the requirements to exercise patronage in front of the higher jurisdictions. Article 2-a extends to 31 December 2016 the time limits for the adoption by the persons in charge of automated services of the Ministry of Justice of the technical specifications necessary for the publication of data and documents to be entered on the so-called public sales portal. Article 2-b extends from 28 February to 31 May 2016 the period within which the Ministry of Justice approves the continued operation of the offices of the peace judges requested by the local authorities who will bear the relevant costs. Article 2-c, paragraph 1, extends for 2016 the transitional exclusion for certain specific cases from the employer's contribution to the INPS in case of termination of an employment relationship for an indefinite period. In Article 4, paragraph 1 extends for the year 2016 the application of the procedure conferring on the prefect the powers of impulse and substitute relating to the appointment of the Commissioner ad acta responsible for preparing the outline of the forecast budget of the local authorities. It is also stipulated, in paragraph 1-c, that, to parties and political movements which do not comply with the obligation to transmit such acts within the time limits laid down, the commission shall apply the administrative penalty of EUR 200,000. Paragraph 2 establishes that the adaptation of the structures used for school services to the applicable laws and regulations in the matter of fire prevention is completed within six months from the date of adoption of the ministerial decree provided for by article 10-a of Decree-Law No 104 of 2013 and, however, no later than 31 December 2016. Paragraph 3 extends from 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2016 the deadline for the purchase of the effectiveness of the provisions that also allow citizens of States not belonging to the European Union, provided that they regularly stay in Italy, to use replacement declarations. Paragraph 4 extends to 31 December 2016 the time limits within which the management in associated form of the fundamental functions of small municipalities becomes mandatory. In addition, with an amendment introduced to the Chamber of Deputies, the Municipalities established by merger by 1 January 2016 are exempted from the obligation of compliance with the provisions relating to the achievement of the public finance objectives for territorial authorities introduced by the law of stability 2016. Article 4-b extends for one year the period within which the President of the Council may request the competent judicial authority that the directors of the Security Information Department or other expressly delegated staff be authorised for interviews with prisoners and internees, for the sole purpose of obtaining information for the prevention of crimes for international terrorist purposes. Madam President, to try to shorten the deadlines, I would ask you to allow me to hand over the rest of my report, which relates to matters within the competence of the Budget Commission. [[Applause from Senator Pagliari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u41	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u42	Madam President, I will not associate myself with the many who will probably say that a thousand-pronge is a bad thing in itself because extending the entry into force of a wrong law is always better than allowing this law to come into force. It would be better to repeal the wrong laws, but sometimes there is no time and strength and then you prefer to say: "The demagogic thing we approved a few months ago was fine, but we move it by a few months." This does not mean that the decree-law called a thousandprorogations is exempt from the precise provisions which are widely accepted in theory and which are contained both in Law No 400 of 1988 and in certain judgments of the Constitutional Court. In particular, there is the question of homogeneity. This decree-law has no homogeneity: there are the most varied norms. I will not make the list of topics that have been touched because I would not have the ten minutes of the speech, but only the list of topics fills a whole page. Uniformity is a fiction that certainly has not invented this Government. The President-in-Office of the Council said that he would no longer use these milleprorogous old times, and in fact we have the most full-bodied milleproroghe he remembers (and, I must say, I remember several of them). It is the most full-bodied and the most weird as congeries of different topics. The guiding principle is that these are all urgent extensions of measures. Frankly, it's a fiction. One day we might invent that the common thread is that the extensions touch all topics that begin with letters of the first part of the alphabet: homogeneity should be substantial, not formal. After placing this stake, the criterion that must be rules that contain extensions, the House of Deputies then introduced several which do not contain any extension, even the appearance. I have examined several thousand-pronged decrees. Sometimes, when you wanted to introduce a new rule, a change of a rule, to make it enter the milleproroghe you moved a time limit of one month and, at the same time, you changed the norm. Here, however, there is no longer even the appearance of the extension. For example, in Article 4, paragraph 1-c, we simply introduce a new rule on electoral refunds to parties. A new standard, whether good or bad; it is a new standard without any extension of time limits. In Article 4, paragraph 6-a, the Provinces belonging to the regions of Sicily and Sardinia are re-established; the famous provinces that have been abolished, but to which other money arrives. Article 5 contains provisions concerning the performance of the functions of the Director-General of the Grand Pompeii Project and changes to the maximum limit of expenditure but there is no extension of time limits. In Article 10, there is even a number of paragraphs, from 10-b to 10-e, which do not contain any extension of time limits but, on the contrary, contain an authentic interpretation of a rule that I believe involves expenditure, and for which there is no coverage. And so on, with a number of other rules that do not contain any extension of time. Surely the House of Deputies has added and, at a glance, has five times the content of this measure, by a procedure that someone might, lightly, call monocameral. This measure, in fact, reaches us when it is on the limit of the deadline and, even under this pretext, the Government will pose the inevitable question of trust. I was talking about a monocameral procedure because this text only examined it by the House. Here, with commendable seriousness on the part of the rapporteurs and the Government, the agendas of the day have been examined exclusively, because we in the opposition have also acknowledged that it is useless for us to waste time examining amendments on which you will give an opinion against them, even if they are excellent and perhaps even shared by the majority. So we are only talking about agendas, which do not involve amending the text and, therefore, do not involve further reading by the other branch of Parliament. This measure, therefore, is read but not examined by the Senate and, moreover, for two thirds is introduced during its process with amendments passed to the Chamber; then, lightly, it could be called a single-camera measure. No, you don't! The 630 Members of the other House have not been able to speak on this measure, except in the Commission, because guess what happened in this House? The question of trust has been raised. Therefore, the Senate did not have the opportunity to try to amend and make even the smallest and most necessary amendment to this text and, of the 630 Members, only members of the relevant Commissions were able to take part in the examination of the measure, because the question of trust was raised in this House. The fact is that the time spent in the Commission has been so long that it has been too short. Here then we have the absolute priority of the government that are civil unions, of which we ask the discussion and then postpone it for ten days (so much because they are priority issues). The result is that only a small number of Members have been able to examine this measure, introducing - to use a speech that is not very correct grammatically - "anything": anything has been introduced, any measure, as I have also said not related to the issue that was invented, as common to this measure. I would also remind you that it is not just a question of style (who cares about homogeneity, who cares whether the measure is homogeneous or not), the fact is that there have been judgments of the Constitutional Court, in particular No 22 of 2012 among others, who said that when there is no reasonable unity of the measure, the rules can be dismissed, perhaps even after years, as happened some time ago to the rules on drugs that have been cassed for a reason like this. In the past, for a thousand-pronged decree there was even an intervention, partly explicit and partly reserved, by the highest office of the State, between one passage and the other between the House and the Senate, because amendments had been introduced out of the question. I imagine that perhaps we should hear this now from a speech on this subject, not necessarily from the highest office of the State - which might have a different idea from its predecessor - but perhaps from the one who intervened then since he is sitting in this House. On the other hand, we have this conspicuity of measures which have been introduced to a large extent for amendments which are likely to be tabled by the Government itself through the complacent signature of some Members and, as a result, Parliament is totally exonerated by a number of measures affecting the very large sectors of our country. Parliament cannot speak and therefore the Government takes full responsibility for it (and we would miss it). As they say, he puts his face on it and then tells us fake numbers. In fact, one of the reasons why our country doesn't go ahead and one of the reasons why our GDP is 4% less than five years ago - when there was a government that was born from the indications of citizens and not from palace games - and there are 360 billion more debts is bureaucracy: laws that change from day to day, made uncertainly, that maybe tomorrow are cashed out by the Constitutional Court or somewhere else. So the government puts its face on it, but the losers are the Italians as a whole. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u43	He asked to intervene Senator Divina to illustrate the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u44	Madam President, this decree-law extends the time limits in the most disparate areas. We are talking about recruitment, the functioning of public administrations, procedures within the Ministry of the Interior in the fields of infrastructure and transport, cultural goods, education, school construction, health, environmental and agricultural and forestry policies. This decree-law, called a thousandprorogations, is adopted by the Government on the grounds that the only justification is the need to ensure efficiency and effectiveness to the various administrations concerned, but in reality only serves to correct errors, to compensate delays and missed decisions. Although, on the one hand, the use of the decree-law called milleproroghe is considered a well-established practice in the way to operate, on the other hand, one cannot make what in the eyes of all is a serious distortion of the regulatory process a rule. In the ganglia of a series of cryptic normative references are hidden, in fact, a series of references aimed at the application of norms that go back even more than ten years ago. This system of delay in the application of the rules produces a real deception towards citizens, first of all violating the first article of the Constitutional Charter which declines the Italian Republic in the basic concept of popular sovereignty. It is manifestly unconstitutional to use the emergency regulations, for example, to extend the UTA, a technical-administrative unit established in 2011 for the completion, following the cessation of the state of emergency due to the problem of waste in the Campania Region, of the activities of defining debt situations and creditors of the pre-emptive emergency management. Moreover, the use of the extension instrument in the health sector should not be used because it impacts on issues related to the provision of care services and particularly problematic, in fact, there are repeated and systematic differences, especially in relation to compliance with provisions dating back to time. The heterogeneity of the content of this decree-law openly contrasts with the contents of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, which directly implements Article 77 of the Constitution, according to which decree-laws must contain measures of immediate application and their content must be specific, homogeneous and corresponding to the title. On the other hand, the decree-law in question accumulates a number of provisions - we have heard them just now - which have a significant impact on the various sectors. For the umpteenth time the Government uses the instrument of emergency regulation in an improper way, emptying Parliament of its prerogatives. The measure under consideration is totally uneven, i.e. exactly the opposite of what, according to the current Constitution, should be a decree-law. The measure is also characterized by the presence of provisional, temporary and experimental rules of mere extensions and already incorporates at the origin the forecast of subsequent supplementary interventions that conflict with the requirements of stability, certainty and simplification of the legislation. The use of the decree of urgency is a form of imbalance and forcing of the balance of powers provided for by the constitutional dictation, which in fact has shifted to the government every regulatory power and imposed a compression of the legislative powers of the Chambers. The continued and repeated use of the decree of urgency as a legislative practice which is now normal and used by the current Government (prases often censored by the appeals of the Heads of State and numerous judgments of the Constitutional Court that have called for the restoration of a correct constitutional path) produces, on the one hand, the non-compliance with Article 70 of the Constitutional Charter, which entrusts the legislative function collectively to the two Chambers and, on the other hand, an emptying and mortification of the role of Parliament and parliamentarians. The measure in question presents critical issues regarding the respect of constitutional profiles. The use of emergency legislation is only politically justified and in fact the Government uses the instrument of the decree-law only because a bill would have too long a time of approval. It is clear, therefore, that the Government operates in full awareness of crossing the constitutional limits only and exclusively because it is unable to find a cohesive parliamentary majority. The measure also intervenes on issues falling within the labour economy, on which it is competent (I speak to the present because the Constitution has not yet been changed) to express an opinion the National Council of Economics and Labour (CNEL), as provided for in Article 99 of the Constitution, which defines it as the advisory body of the Chambers and the Government for matters and according to the functions assigned to it by law. To proceed to the examination of a draft law without having transposed the opinion of CNEL therefore presents further aspects that can make to recognize profiles of manifest unconstitutionality. For these reasons, we ask that the Senate decide not to proceed to the examination of the bill no. 2237, of conversion into law of the decree-law 30 December 2015, n. 210. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u45	He asked Senator Bruni to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u46	Madam President, this draft law deals with the conversion of the so-called'multi-prorogation decree', with the extension of time limits provided for in legislative provisions, which represents the tragic image of our order. This for the obvious reason that the deadlines are set to be respected and not to be extended, while, reading the text of this decree, you have exactly the opposite idea. Each extension is the confession of a government default. "Milleproroghe" means a thousand failures, a thousand proofs of the absolute lack of urgency of the same measures that are subject to extension, a thousand confirmations of opposition to the culture of the rules and to the respect of the Constitution. And, like Christmas, even this year, punctually, has arrived the most classic and unconstitutional of the measures adopted urgently by the Executive, the milleproroghe precisely. It, since its title, reveals in itself the lack of the requirements of necessity and urgency, certainly not being able to assume, to justify the use of the decree of urgency, the mere and fruitless course of time for the purposes of the application of rules of law that imposed obligations on public administrations (take the case of Article 1) or to other and different subjects. The measure, as received by the House of Deputies, consists of twelve articles, not counting the various bis, ter and quac, and contains extensions of legislative terms, sometimes only in the nomen iuris but not in the effects, which are intended to have a significant impact on the various sectors, both public and private. The abuse of the decree of urgency is now one of the greatest difficulties - as has been pointed out several times - for maintaining the balance between the constitutional bodies, as well as for the form of State, as they had been designed by the constituent legislator. The Commission's interference with the regular legislative production of parliamentary sources, supported by all too often more stated than real urgency, goes far beyond the legitimate temperament of the principle of separation between the powers of the State. It is in fact producing a serious damage to legal certainty, as well as a high level of regulatory entropy, a measure of disorder and differentiation of a system that is accompanied by the alteration of the hierarchy of sources and the difficulty of implementing alluvial, unstable and disorderly legislation. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u47	Colleagues, please turn it down. I think the one who's talking really struggles to overwhelm the buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u48	Please, Senator Bruni. Mr Bruni (CoR). Thank you, Madam President. I was saying of the difficulty of implementing alluvial, unstable and disorderly legislation, such as the one that comes out of this umpteenth thousand-pronged decree. Moreover, the fragmentation and segmentation of urgent legislative measures over time have created and continue pervicaciously to create uncertainty in the operators on the applicable rules, ratione temporis, to the regulated cases, and - what is most important - create an overall condition of absolute precariousness of the legislative order, making it very difficult, even for legal operators, to identify the legislation applicable to the individual matters that the legislator actually intended to inverify. This is a case of heterogeneous ends, because the repeated novelations of the law, implemented by means of the decree of urgency, cause doubts of application and hermeneutic perplexities, they themselves a source of legislative chaos and proliferation of the same litigation that they want, only in words, to deflate. In fact, even if we want to ignore the quantity of the use of the instrument of the decree of urgency, the qualitative figure appears to be absolutely worrying. Affected by gigantism, the approved decree-laws often exorbitate from the statistical normality recorded in the past; the decree-law is going, contra constitutionem, towards its endemic and increasing heterogeneity (how often we hear of heterogeneous decree-laws!). The royal decree-law is increasingly moving away from the ideal one, as it was depicted in the constitutional imagination. Regarding the Constitution, the Constitutional Court's ruling No 220 of 2013 should be noted, which clearly stated that "the decrees-laws derive their general legitimacy from extraordinary cases and are intended to operate immediately, in order to give rapid regulatory responses to situations in need of regulation in a manner suitable to address the urgent and urgent needs". Precisely for this order of reasons the ordinary legislator, with a general rule, has provided that the decree-law must contain measures of immediate application. The rule cited, although it does not have formal constitutional status (this is Article 15 of Law No. 400 of 1988), expresses and explicit what must be considered intrinsic to the very nature of the decree-law (see, in this sense, the judgment of the Constitutional Court No. 22 of 2012) that, failing, if it contained provisions intended to have practical effects deferred over time, would come in contradiction with its own premises. Article 15 stipulates that decrees-laws must contain measures of immediate application and their content must be homogeneous and corresponding to the title. In addition to the heterogeneity of interventions, which in itself would be sufficient to place the decree-law under consideration in the beehive of the inevitable declaration of inconstitutionality, there is also a multiplicity of provisions that conflict with the same purpose of extension announced by the title of the decree-law in conversion. We have heard other Members talk about the absence of extensions in many of the rules that have been amended in the House. In particular, we could mention the case of Article 2-c, which does not include any extension of time limits, but merely provides that for defensive solidarity contracts, concluded first Legislative Decree No 148 of 2012 and whose wage integration requests were submitted before the entry into force of the aforementioned Legislative Decree, the amount of integration treatment has increased, for 2016, for a maximum of 12 months, to the extent of 10% of the lost remuneration. The same observation may be made with regard to the provisions of Article 4, paragraph 1-c. They merely provide for the guarantee committee to apply an administrative penalty of EUR 200,000 to political parties and movements which do not forward the accounts with the corresponding annexes within the time limits laid down. Still no extension can be found in article 4, paragraph 6-a, that it is limited to identifying the applicable provisions, for the year 2016, for the non-taxable erarial transfers, paid by the Ministry of the Interior in favor of the Provinces belonging to the Regions Sicily and Sardinia. Similarly, the forecasts contained in paragraphs 2-b to 2-e of Article 10, apodictically classified, are not applicable. In particular, paragraph 2-b is merely a rule of authentic interpretation of the provision referred to in Article 19 (2), first sentence, of the decree of the President of the Republic No 633 of 1972 on the deductibility of VAT paid on the purchase of goods and services by vocational training bodies receiving public contributions, in relation to the training activities carried out with such contributions. In essence, this forecast only clarifies that the expense of the deduction is closely linked to the purchases made with the aid of the contributions that are used for the carrying out of taxable transactions. It is therefore an authentic interpretation which has nothing to do with the concept of extension. Continuing, we could mention paragraph 7-c, which does not contain any extension of time limits. In fact, letter a) only regulates the procedures for the provision of liquidity anticipation; letter c) provides that the resources deriving from the reductions of the financing provided for the Italian Red Cross Instrumental Agency and for the Italian Red Cross Association, pursuant to article 8, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree No 178 of 2012, to rely on the financing of the National Health Service, starting from the year of application of the same reductions, are bound to the reimbursement of the liquidity anticipation referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, to the extent of 6 million euros per year for the entire period of reimbursement of the same anticipation. Finally, what about the extension, this time real, contained in Article 11-a, which postpones the 60-day deadline for the adoption by the Government Commissioner of the urban regeneration programme of the areas of important national interest of the Bagnoli-Coroglio area? Or of the forecast referred to in paragraph 2 of the same article 11-a, according to which, within thirty days from the approval of the program of environmental rehabilitation and urban regeneration referred to in article 33 of Decree-Law No 133 of 2014, the residual resources of the funds allocated by the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea for the site of national interest "Bagnoli-Coroglio" and paid to the Municipality of Naples not yet engaged are destined to the financing of the same interventions, according to the addresses of the direction cabin? We could continue with other assessments of this kind, but since the effort of thought does not really seem to be the distinctive figure of this Government, we fear that in the near future we will be discussing again the urgency of proposing terms which have already been vaguely extended, or worse, in the need and urgency to undertake further, but not new, governmental initiatives in order to continue not to solve very ancient problems. That is precisely why we insist that the Senate decide not to proceed with the examination of the bill. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u49	We welcome the students and teachers of the secondary school of the first degree "Giovanni Bonifacio" of Rovigo, who are today visiting the Senate and follow our works. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u50	He asked Senator Campanella to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, my previous colleagues did not give a precise description because this measure is enormous, but they have described a whole range of aspects and reasons why this measure should not be dealt with in this House. I would like to approach the subject from a slightly different point of view. First, I would like to remind myself of the content of Articles 70 and 77 of the Constitution still in force, the 1948 Constitution. Rule 70 states "The legislative function is exercised collectively by the two Chambers of Deputies, that is, by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. Article 77 says that "the Government" that we know is the holder of the executive power "Can not, without delegation of the Chambers, issue decrees that have the value of ordinary law", but in the second paragraph it is written: When, in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency, the Government adopts, under its responsibility, provisional measures by force of law, it must present them on the same day for conversion to the Chambers. Therefore, according to Article 77, the Government can present provisional measures by force of law, decrees-laws, but must include the element of extraordinaryness (so it cannot do so from time to time), the element of necessity (i.e. it must not be possible to provide otherwise) and the element of urgency (i.e. it must be provided immediately for an event that makes urgent intervention necessary). I would like to add that, in the law governing the functioning of the Council Presidency, No 400 of 1988 is established that, as implicitly provided for in Article 77 of the Charter, decree-laws must contain measures of immediate application, because they are urgent and necessary, and their content must be specific, homogeneous and corresponding to the title. Now, we are analyzing the constitutionality of Decree-Law No. 210 of 2015: does it have the characteristics envisaged? It does not have them, because it is not homogeneous, it does not deal with rules that are urgent and it does not deal with the necessary rules. In practice, the decree-law milleproroghe - because this is a decree milleproroghe, i.e. it is part of a category of decree-laws that cheer us every year - moves forward terms that other norms of law had predicted and this is repeated every year. This generates, in whom those laws must apply them or according to those laws must be regulated, an understandable expectation or even the certainty that that term will also be moved that year. I am thinking, for example, of the umpteenth extension of the deadline for adaptation to the computerised waste traceability control system at 31 December 2016. Rules with fixed deadlines, which from year to year are seen moving, and then again and again. This approach has led to the view that the element of homogeneity in this type of decrees is the end, i.e. the extension. This argument is already rather weak, but we know - as all colleagues have pointed out - that the decree-law under consideration, for the modifications made by the House, which, among other things, have increased the rules of extension in a macroscopic way, bringing them from 50 to over 70, also contains completely new norms that do not introduce extensions. I am referring, for example, to the sanctioning of political parties and movements which do not comply with the transmission of documents relating to their financing (EUR 200,000), a rule that is not homogeneous with the measure even in its aims. At this point, what is to be considered? Firstly, the fact that this type of rule makes it impossible to plan the activities of public administrations, which must apply rules whose terms change continuously; secondly, the fact that this type of rule empties the role of Parliament, because it causes the Government to issue new rules by force of law and imposes them on Parliament through the majority that supports it, avoiding an in-depth analysis by the constitutional body, which is, or should at least be, the holder of the legislative function, which the Government misappropriates. It follows that what the Government has set and imposed in the law of revision of the Constitution is nothing more than a sort of crystallization of a state - which has gradually been determined, fixed and settled - of emptying the deliberative power and control of the elective Chambers for the benefit of an Executive, which in this way escapes any control. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we ask that this measure not be examined: because it would be a further certification of Parliament's worthlessness, with a surrender to the Government of a power that has already been arrogant and wants to be definitive. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u52	He asked Senator Endrizzi to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP5. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, according to Rome, I have learned a typical expression: What am I gonna tell you? I quote you, because this is the interest you show in the debate, the respect you have for Parliament's classrooms and for the citizens, who need solutions. This Government, which is defined by words of "do", is known in fact as the Government of "to delay", "to extend." That's what happened. About two months ago, the alarm clock on the cabinet of the legislative offices of the Presidency of the Council sounded with the warning: the extensions must be repeated. So, they took the text six months earlier, they updated it, put it back on site, and today they're gonna trust you, and they're gonna put the alarm clock back on in another six months. That means the country is still. The country waits and the government continues to take care of its own business. In this decree-law, however, we have problems: there are violations of the Constitutional Charter, also violations of common sense. In fact, if we continually drop the needs and needs and postpone the measures that should finally bring about change and progress, we will have consequences and we will lose the confidence of citizens in legal certainty. Try to think about the problem of evictions: the tenant with the noose around his neck and the anguish of what will happen tomorrow, but also the owner with the noose around his neck and the uncertainty of what will happen tomorrow. We can - indeed, you can - displease everyone. Try to think about companies, who should invest and do not know exactly what the regulatory framework and incentives are. Try to think about how this situation lives who is to be assumed by a public administration and maybe has a life plan that is restrained by the inertia of the government. Try to think of the public administrations, encouraged by this measure, which substantially violates the principles of good administration, to postpone what is required of them in relation to the Stability Pact and the obligations to improve services and guarantee transparency to citizens. Try to think about safety systems, from self-schools to agricultural machines, which are continually being postponed. We have a measure that freezes time and makes us hibernate mammoths in a block of ice. Not you, because we don't care much about you, but the country, which is like this. If we had at least had time to intervene on this decree-law, making changes, we would have done as in the previous episode of this saga, introducing or at least trying to introduce sanctions for public administrators who do not do their duty. But you see, the highest, most severe and most severe sanction must be at the head of the government, because the government is the first to be responsible. I'm sorry that the press isn't here large enough to frame everyone chatting and the interest that our rulers show. The Government should be sanctioned and the political sanction for this Government can only be one: we, this time, say enough and do not proceed to the examination of this provision. You see, President, there should be applause at this point: I find it written in the paper I am reading and perhaps you, at this moment, are experiencing that strange feeling, called déjà vu. This is not a feeling, however, because I said the same words in this very House just a year ago: 26 February 2015. Applause, therefore, should also be repeated. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Thank you! Nothing has changed, the Government of the postponement is still here, to make us ashamed of a policy for which nothing is more stable than the provisional, consisting of extensions, referrals and ignavia. Do not be offended by me, Mr President, if I have replied to my speech, because it is indisputably topical. And then, as I said in the beginning: "What am I gonna tell you?". [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u54	Since no one intends to speak in the debate, I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator Bernini and other Senators (QP1), Senator Divine and other Senators (QP2), Senator Bonfrisco and other Senators (QP3), Senator De Petris and other Senators (QP4) and Senator Crimi and other Senators (QP5). It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u55	Let's ask for a rehearsal. Madam President, before we proceed to the counter-test vote, we ask that the cards of the senators which are not actually present be removed from the voting arrangements, as was done in the last votes. There are several cards of absent senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u56	I order the doors closed and I ask the Secretary Senators to proceed with the verification and extraction of the cards for which the senators are not present, on the right and on the left of the hemicycle. Please cooperate with Senators Secretary to expedite operations. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] We're waiting for the secretary senators to finish. There's a card in the government's desks that needs to be removed; I ask an assistant to extract that card. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u57	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, Mr Under-Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, exactly two years ago, this Government was sitting - my friend Marco Marin says 'abusely' and rightly - at the head of our country, promising to tidy up public finances, economic recovery, the fall in unemployment and simplification. After two years, the country's conditions have deteriorated dramatically; the balance of the budget has been shifted to 2018, the public debt has increased by 100 billion euros, contained also thanks to alchemies accounting, since in November it was 2,211 billion and as it did, in a month, to fall by 40 billion is difficult to understand. The economic policy adopted has been bankrupt. Businesses continue to close down, entrepreneurs commit suicide, youth unemployment and unemployment in general increase. The only important note is the distribution of 80 euros to well selected categories for electoral purposes, but in deficit. We are experiencing sterile growth, despite the favourable euro-dollar exchange rate and the favourable cost of oil; investment is almost absent, even for research and innovation; the safeguard clauses, postponed, await around the corner, like a cleaver, to strike at citizens who have already been harassed by so many taxes. Callbacks and criticism come from all sides. The OECD revised downward growth for 2016. The Court of Auditors has revealed your phony spending review: instead of cutting real waste, you have only reduced services for the community, and, moreover, current spending has increased by 52 billion compared to the previous year. The European Commission has humiliated you: it does not recognize in you a serious interlocutor, but it only charges you with an approximate approach without any concrete proposal, in addition to brawling tones, slogans and propaganda. 18.21 (Following CERONS). Soon you will be forced to correct public accounts of 3, 6 or 9 billion, much more likely since growth could stop at 1%, as one company estimates today. One company says that this would involve action to reduce the negative impact on the state's finances. Taxes will have to be increased or there should be hope for an unlikely revision of public expenditure. Today you propose yet another decree-law and ask yet another confidence on a measure that postpones interventions and confuses everyone. This measure, as has already been said and I have just repeated it, is unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court had already dictated the criteria and regulated the constitutionality of a decree-law in 2012. It is clear that this Government is, as always, irresponsible and superficial. In this provision there is everything and the opposite of everything. There are references to rules which refer to other rules, which are lost in a legislative maze; extended time limits of various kinds and postponed the application of rules which have not yet been implemented and which should have had immediate, definitive and decisive effect. Slide the term for the associated management of the fundamental functions by the small municipalities established by Decree-Law No. 78 of 2010. Extension of the time limits for adapting the fire-fighting regulations for accommodation facilities and for the safety of school buildings. Mr Vice-Minister, it is in school building that you show all your inability. Is it possible that the Ministry of Infrastructure does not have a Undersecretary who wants to deal with the emergency of the safety of school buildings? You here extend time limits of measures that even date back to CIPE Resolutions No 32 of 2010 and No 6 of 2012. Move the deadline to 2016, but they are scheduled to take place in 2010. In addition, interventions - those financed by loans from the European Investment Bank (EIB) - under Article 10 of Decree-Law No 104 of 12 September 2013 have been moved. We're really crazy! In school construction, whose priority has been a boast of the President-in-Office of the Council just installed, when in this House he represented the need to intervene in schools, because there are generations of the future, we are completely bogged down and we are continuing to extend it. The telematic process is still frozen. The usual local marchettes appear for Bagnoli, for the commissioners of the emergency garbage in Campania and the Land of fires, for the railways of the South-East. 18.25 p.m., followed by CERONI. The deadline for adapting the traceability of waste (SISTRI) and for large fuel plants to adapt to the new emission limits is still slipped. An act of law that has been required since 2010 to combat abuse in the taxi sector and driver rental licenses has been disregarded. Even, modified commitments made a few weeks ago, in the law of stability. How come, instead, you have not even tried to extend the implementation of the bank bail-in order to guarantee protection to savers and the Italian credit system? It is clear that you are strong with the weak and kneel down to the strong. We could go on for hours. You will only be remembered for your lack of strategy, for the inability to accomplish or resolve even small issues. You really don't have a vision of the future. Following the meaning of the measure under consideration, you are simply extending your existence, keeping your bad habits against the rules, against common sense, in contempt for the citizens, the finances of the country and Parliament. Italians must return to the vote and be able to choose from those who want to be governed and on the basis of which program. What happened in 2011, in fact, today is clear in everyone's eyes. For these reasons, our judgment on this measure is highly negative. Ours is a "no" against this Government is against its way of lawmaking, which goes against the real needs of the country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u58	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as every year, when we come to examine the decree-law to extend time limits, the debate is on the homogeneity of the matters contained, the possible extraneousness and whether or not certain decisions are appropriate. It seems to me that, this time, most regulatory interventions of a temporal nature are really aimed at the need to intervene urgently on the expiry of time limits which would have been detrimental to matters considered very important by both the Government and the Parliament. Unfortunately, in the implementation of the laws criticalities may emerge that require longer times than those initially foreseen by the law. Sometimes, however, it is difficult to understand why certain times are dilated to great extent, giving rise to repeated extensions that create inevitable inconveniences and further confusion. I shall therefore confine myself to highlighting two issues that are particularly important to me. The first, concerns paragraph 1 of Article 6, which extends from 26 February to 26 December 2016, the validity of the certificates of training in the matter of first aid and medical assistance for seafarers, issued for more than five years according to the discipline in force before the legislative decree n. 71 of 2015. This extension is necessary because the procedures for converting these certificates have not yet been established. This has created, and is creating, many difficulties for seafarers, because the training centres that carry out the training and refresher courses have not received the new programs and especially creates problems for those who already hold the certificate issued by the Ministry of Health according to the IMO STCW standards, because they do not know what to do: a refresher course or a new course. New multi-paramedic systems have emerged, such as the new generation defibrillators, for which up-to-date training would really be important. Among other things, both basic and advanced courses (medical care) for seafarers who have responsibility for drug control, the drug register, the consumption of medicines on board are paid and go - when it's okay - from EUR 300-400 for basic courses to EUR 600-800 for advanced ones. You understand well that, especially for seafarers who have not yet found a boarding - and they start to be many, alas - such costs can be very heavy. If then the courses were to be repeated because those facts are passed, it would be really serious. Therefore, it agrees on the extension, provided that it is followed by a measure of the Ministry of Health that indicates as soon as possible the modalities of conversion of the certificates of training issued according to the previsional norm and that an interministerial decree is adopted that governs the contents of the first-aid courses for the marine navigation staff. I believe that maritime workers in this country already have many problems caused by Ministerial Decree No. 121 of 2005 and Legislative Decree No. 136 of 2011, still in force despite Legislative Decree No. 71 of 2015 introduced the conversion of professional titles acquired with the diploma into simple ratings. Legislative Decree No 71 also provides for the downgrading for those who, during the five years of validity of the certificate of qualification, have not performed the functions for which the certificate was issued and who should resume their studies in order to regain the qualification obtained with the diploma. There is also some concern about the content of Article 10, in paragraphs 7 to 7-c, on the reorganization of the Italian Red Cross. More than three years have passed since the reform referred to in Legislative Decree no. 178, 28 September 2012, and I believe that the time has now ripened for the reorder to be completed. What worries me most is paragraph 7-b, which grants the extension for the percentages of reduction of the financing, while I do not know that, from the institution, a work of reordering and a check-up of the situation of the real estate and their management has been done. It is - it should be remembered - of 1,045 buildings and 413 land located in all the regions of Italy (mainly Tuscany, Lombardy and Liguria), many of which are in a situation of degradation and abandonment. Therefore, I understand that the extensions contained in Article 10 have become necessary for the difficult and complicated dynamics of privatization of the institution, but after more than three years and numerous acts of inspection union, I think it is really time to conclude and understand what the definitive placement of civil and military personnel will be. And above all, it is time for an inventory of real estate owned, or in any case used at the Red Cross, and to understand what their management has been over the last three years and whether there is a disposal plan. In fact, I understand that there has been an uncontrolled increase in the budget deficit, with consequent repercussions on the quality of services provided to citizens by local committees as well. This extension is therefore necessary, but with the wish that it may be the last. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u60	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u61	Madam President, it has already been said during the debate on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling that this measure has the capacity to combine pears with apples and, indeed, to mix oil with water. As always happens, the decree-law in question is in fact an omnibus measure, not at all respecting the homogeneity character provided for by Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, which states that the decree-laws must contain measures of immediate application and that their content must be specific, homogeneous and corresponding to the title. The decree-law under consideration is made up of 13 articles that have been armored in the Chamber of Deputies, little discussed and put in a position not to harm the system, limiting themselves to carrying out what policy has probably not been able to face seriously. Measures were therefore sought to take account of the functioning and organisation of public administrations with regard to infrastructure, transport, food and forestry and, indeed, health matters. Basically, something homogeneous! Probably in this decree-law the Government has tried to make homogeneous only the need to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of the action of the various administrations concerned. It was also interesting to try to understand the terms in which the introduction of certain elements that would have absolutely nothing to do with the extensions took place. Basically, some new elements such as electoral reimbursement have even been included in this decree-law with the allocation of resources for those Provinces which, among other things, have been abolished. Again, this is an aberration for public expenditure. Then there is the question of the Director-General for Pompeii's great project, which perhaps will also potentially see some wall collapse but which has been included in this decree-law. Even uncovered rules have been introduced, and that says a lot about the inability to govern, but on the other hand you have put the question of trust and therefore everything went to cavalry. I also hope, Mr President, that the rules contained in those 24 slides which the President of the Council has proposed to us regarding the celebrations for the two years of his government will not be extended. Someone, in the pre-my intervention, felt that that government was and still is abusive. Virtually a slide has been produced every month. Let us hope that the results of these two years will not be extended for the next twenty-four months, unless we go to the elections, as we hope, a little earlier. The President-in-Office of the Council said that unemployment has fallen to 11.4%: a colossal bale that, among other things, cost us about 11 billion to create just over 100,000 jobs, for which, among other things, there is no evidence that the decontribution given to the jobs act has had a positive impact. He'll probably have to spend a few more years to see how much he actually carved that law. In January the Integration Fund went up again and I hope that this too will not be extended and that the Government will put in place serious and concrete actions in a credible industrial plan. In fact, if we were to think in positive terms of an industrial plan and an energy plan, I believe that there would be no need to extend the integration fund, but perhaps it would be easier to extend it than to put an end to economic issues. There has also been talk of youth unemployment, down to 37.9%, a figure which does not take into account young people who do not study and no longer seek work, so this too, gentlemen, is quite a false fact. Another issue is the bale that concerns GDP, from minus 1.9% to more than 0.8. The latest OSCE figures are dramatic and Draghi's intervention is estimated at 0.3% of GDP. Oil at the minima has played its part and the remaining part has made the euro weak for most of the year, stimulating exports. These conditions, Mr President, the absence of which would have led to an unparalleled economic collapse, other than recovery! Italy seems to go towards the inevitable failure to respect the reduction of the debt from 2017. Another sensitive issue is immigration. In this case too, Mr President, we continue to prolong, indeed, to prolong more than to prolong this incredible problem. Italy is calling on Europe to issue eurobonds in order to cope with the financial burden: huge expenses that we are unable to cope with. The growth in 2015 was much lower than expected. Only 0.6%. We should probably have a spread of 500 or 600. I remember when Berlusconi was forced to resign and the news of these days about the interceptions say a lot and tell very well how things went. The document of economy and finance that the Government will present in April will officially take into account a worsening also regarding the forecasts for the current year and will therefore open the way to a corrective maneuver of 3-5 billion. 2017 is everything to see. We will see some good ones, but there is already a 17 billion increase in VAT and excise duty account provided for in the safeguard clauses. Or do you plan to extend these too? But even by putting aside the public accounts, Renzi's Italy does not seem to have changed towards the European partners, including those historically closer. Last year Italy grew by 0.6%, compared with 3.2 percent in Spain and 1% in France. The beautiful country has not changed even on debt, almost 13% of GDP, against a European average of 87.2%. There is some positive sign on unemployment, but the employment rate remains very low, as well as labour productivity, which sees us at the bottom of the European Union's ranking. These are poor country statistics, Madam President, and we have been continuing to extend these statistics for three or four years. I hope that I will no longer have to see a possible extension of the economic ruin of the advice of Minister Madia, in the next two years; the external advice has multiplied, in the face of the spending review. We have gone from EUR 737 million to EUR 1 197 million: EUR 453 million removed from much more important issues. Is it possible, Madam President, that among our three million state and public employees there is no expert, able to technically support the Minister, who has repeatedly given the feeling that you do not even know your laws well? Someone has feared that perhaps a consultant in this case, even paid well, would be important. I wonder how it is possible to boast and flag up successes throughout Europe on reforms that have only been partially implemented and whose results will be seen over the next three or four years (if we see them). I wonder, above all, how it is possible to link the constitutional reform, that is, the ruin of the Constitution that you have made (among other things not finally approved and the subject of the caudine forks of the October referendum), with a ventilated resumption. You are talking about a restored Italy, when all economic indices are absolutely negative. Madam President, I would like to sprinkle my intervention with large salt, but I would not like this to be understood as something too sweet for this majority. In this measure, since it is an omnibus decree-law, it also inserts the extension of the thousand dreams, whose realization, two years ago, the new President of the Council has guaranteed to the Italians. Now the book of dreams will also inaugurate the Salerno-Reggio Calabria, model Cetto La Qualuna (when he inaugurated the bridge on the Strait at the end of the film). That is what the President-in-Office of the Council can do, Madam President. And I try, too. I am, among other things, the Council, I just miss the President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the expression'multi-pronged decree' has been coined by the press. Journalists call the decree one thousandprorogates that decree-law that is issued by the Government every year to intervene on a series of measures already adopted, in order to extend the terms of implementation of norms already approved. This meaning of the decree is undoubtedly a journalistic meaning, yes, but that in any case accompanies these measures with a poor consideration of goodness, in the sense that the term "milleproroghe" has now become something derogatory. This measure does not include 1,000 extensions: there are about 150 of them and many of them were introduced in the Commission's work already in the House, where everyone has inserted a norm that was going to regulate a particular issue. We have, for example, Article 1, which deals with public administration and, in particular, permanent recruitment in certain sectors of the State such as security, defence, the National Firefighter Corps. The temporary term of office of municipal secretaries by the Department of Civil Service is extended. Paragraph 4 deals with the programming (a very long programming) of the recruitment of university staff. There are also interventions on the military order in paragraph 8, while paragraph 9 extends fixed-term employment contracts for the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities. Then, as if that were not enough, paragraph 10-c integrates article 14, paragraph 14, of Decree-Law No. 6 of 1998 in the matter of specific urgent interventions for the earthquake zones of the Marche and Umbria regions and other areas affected by calamitous events. So since 1998, we have been promoting these areas. Article 2 fully intervenes in another area, i.e. in the context of the mandatory digital signature in the administrative process. The following paragraph 2-b intervenes on the reform of the professional order, identifying requirements other than those already provided for by the norm that we dismissed a short time ago for the registration by lawyers to the register for legal aid before the superior jurisdiction. There are also interventions of interest of the Ministry of Labour, with norms that go to modify, to supplement, to prolong laws enacted in the within of this section. There is an extension for the three-year period 2016-2018 of a financing of 500,000 euros for the operation of the State tactile Museum "Omero". We also have the Ministry of Health, which rightly wonders why it doesn't owe him anything. Therefore, the measure also includes rules for the Ministry of Health that go to regulate or in any case extend time limits regarding the organisation of the National Health Service. Of course, there is no shortage of infrastructure and transport (we could not wrong this sector), so Article 7 also addressed needs in that direction. The enforcement of Equitalia must also be reviewed, the deadlines must be revised and these measures are still included in this measure. Then there are a few small extensions of posts of some commissioners scattered here and there in the national territory. We in the AL-A Group have voted against the questions of constitutionality, because the issue of the heterogeneity of the matter, albeit sacredly stated in our Constitutional Charter, can now be considered outdated. In fact, I have no difficulty in admitting that such measures, which have come to our attention today, have already been brought to the examination of parliamentary assemblies by other political forces and in particular by the centre-right. I therefore believe that the question of discontinuity, of the heterogeneity of the subjects dealt with is no longer constitutionally relevant and that for the now well-established parliamentary practice, moreover, with the absence in the promulgation by the President of the Republic, this aspect is abundantly overcome. However, in the end, we are voting against the measure precisely because of the heterogeneity of the subjects dealt with; not because they are of constitutional importance, but simply because, although I have undertaken to read these rules, which also have references to other legal provisions, it has been a work of enormous complexity. I challenge any senator in this House to say that, read this decree, he can express a positive or negative judgment, a vote in favour or against, with the awareness that he knows what he is voting for. The decree-law in question is so rich in references, of various kinds, that it concerns the most disparate subjects. If we talk about health care, our Senator D'Anna would immediately understand what we are talking about; if we talk about administrative process, I might modestly understand myself; then there are the military, the fire department, the municipal secretaries. Gentlemen, how is it possible to vote in favour of such a measure? Moreover, I must also note that to include the extension of the funding for that museum gives me so much the taste of a measure that, in some way, is an opportunity for the most attentive and perhaps the least distracted - or, we mean, the smartest - to insert the norm that in this decree-law can give satisfaction to a certain part or to certain sectors. This method of law-making is wrong because, when we go to intervene, for example, on the legal order (which we fired a short time ago), we admit that we have fired a wrong measure, so much so that we correct it. So either we, when we legislate, are careful and reflect well on the standards we go to produce, or what do we do? This is a corrective decree-law, which goes to correct a certain rule, because we realized that, in the application, that rule was wrong. Perhaps more attention would not make us use a legislative instrument that, even journalistically, is being denigrated. The same applies to implementing decrees. We, with the law of delegation, set deadlines - obviously because we must do so, in order to make it constitutional - and when its Minister and the Government adopt a certain implementing decree, they must do so within the prescribed period; they must know when the administrative court or the Council of State are ready to organize themselves to transpose the mandatory digital signature. Why is it postponed? Because you are not ready: but it could be expected that we would not be ready. Then there is a delay in issuing the implementing decrees by the Government. It delays and, therefore, extends. There are corrections. This is the thousandprorogues decree: it is a decree-corrective law of recent and past errors and it is a decree-law that extends the terms because it was not done in time to do what was to be done. Moreover, when you read such a measure, any legal person - and you think of a citizen who is not familiar with legal matters - is faced with a measure which, believe me, is absolutely incomprehensible. I would like to be the first to understand in order to make a contribution so that Italians can also understand what we are producing in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. FALANGA (AL-A). Because of this heterogeneity, not of constitutional rank, not for reasons of unconstitutionality, but for different reasons (just to understand the provision), I have no difficulty in saying that I understood little, and when I don't understand I never agree, which is why we in AL-A will vote against it. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u64	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u65	Madam President, once again we are examining the decree-law known as the one thousand-pronged decree, which is perhaps the worst of all the urgent measures which contain various subjects. In addition, we have been prevented from being able to table and discuss amendments, because we continue to want to act not only with some kind ofquism, with a pre-pochism, with a generalization of measures, but also with the imposition of a vote of confidence, which prevents this Parliament from being able to reason calmly on the measures and to be able to contain them in some way, avoiding the most negative aspects. The thousand-pronged decree that we are about to vote - of course my Group is against it - contains a series of extensions that are proving to be untrustworthy. I would first of all like to draw the attention of this House to the question of the huge funds that are being paid and which will continue to be paid to the Gran Sasso Science Institute. Mr Renzi yesterday was also present in L'Aquila for this reality, but we have not so far had any clarity as to how these funds are invested and used. There is no transparency with regard to this large amount of resources - we are talking about hundreds of millions of euros - to which there seems to be no return that demonstrates the usefulness of this allocation of funds. On the other hand, as for Gran Sasso Science Institute there are several other destinations of funds that are being extended. On the other hand, what could have been useful, perhaps the only aspect for which this thousandprorogation could have been useful, was the extension of at least one year of the deadlines within which to bring into force the harmful rules introduced on public school. As 5 Star Movement we had asked to suspend all the critical points of the law 13 July 2015, n. 107, so-called good school. We had asked for the extension of the time limits for the entry into force of the territorial areas, the direct call of the principals, the evaluation committees. We have asked for a year's extension because these interventions, which are planned in good school, do not even have a clear indication. We have also asked for the extension of the deadline for the entry into force of the thirty-six-month supplement limit, because here we are going to intervene on what should instead have been a more structured and more responsive plan to the needs and characteristics of our education.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u66	I invite you to conclude, Senator Blondo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u67	BLUNDO (M5S). I shall conclude, Madam President. The measure under consideration could have been useful, this time, to take a pause for reflection, instead of millantare ulterior interventions of listening to the teaching body and the world of the school. This could have been a useful time to interrupt something wrong, which has already been done. Instead, you take us to the vote of confidence, inserting other things, which are in fact not positive, nor decisive for the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u68	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u69	Madam President, I do not even want to start a speech on the elements of unconstitutionality contained in this measure, because I think it is completely unnecessary. However, we have already voted and, as usual, the Senate has solved the problem with a raise of hands. I have always had some doubts about the possibility of resolving questions of constitutionality or unconstitutionality by show of hands, because the analysis should be more than merit and the merit is not decided by raise of hand. However, I would like to focus on the fact that a measure is being adopted, which should be of absolute urgency and which must solve practical problems - such as the extension of the validity of an intervention, financing or management - and by the House of Members it is being enriched with seventy rules, which are not of an extension nature, but which instead introduce elements of regulation of matters and issues outside the original document. This mode of regulation has an effect in our public administration, which, as is well known, has an objective difficulty, also because of the fact that it is elephantic, to take note of the regulatory innovations, being, moreover, largely invested, as responsible, in the implementation of those rules. So we are confusing and we are also doing something else, which I suggest is the subject of the reflection of the two branches of Parliament and, above all, of the Government that it has. In the forest of the provisions adopted by means of such measures - the thousandprorogues: something of exorbitant size - we conceal the provisions concerning the lives of citizens, of which the citizens themselves will never even know the existence, because they are introduced within a measure haunted by such events. I am thinking, for example, of the administration of the Commission, which is one of the chapters which must be extended on time. There are, in fact, Commissioners who have been here for years and years. Beware that we also extend extraordinary police stations, created to manage emergencies, which then last for years: I don't mean for decades, although I would be curious to go gleaning, in a more in-depth way, around these provisions. We intervene in order to extend the emergency headquarters, therefore for the management of emergency situations, when the emergency no longer exists: there is an ordinary emergency that makes that problem become ordinary and therefore recalls an ordinary management responsibility in the hands of local authorities rather than in the offices of the public administration, the Region or the State. We are the creators of these messes that require an act of courage. I tell those who, like me, but also like you and like them, define themselves as reformist, that is, want to reform a reality that is not good. And one of the things that is not good is precisely this: we live with extensions and, by extending the interventions, it means that we are keeping alive, not through this provision but through our behavior, events that should instead find definitive solution. These are events that need an established time within which the problem they wanted to deal with must be solved. But we have the thousandprorogues; next year we will have 1,100; it may be that in two or three years, here no longer but in the House, maybe there will be 1,500 or 2,000. We can no longer postpone the solution to this country's problems. And since in this provision there is an attitude of systematic postponement of the solution of the problems of this country, the objective that must be set first of all by the Government is to delete from the legislative vocabulary the so-called thousandprorogane decree: the thousandprorogane must not exist anymore. And if before there were 1,000 extensions we needed, next year there must be 500, the year ahead 250, and in three or four years there must be the formal and substantial cancellation of the measure. We must no longer make such a measure at the end of the year to extend terms, because we will have thus acquired the ability to evaluate also the entity, the consistency and the time of the intervention in order to solve the problems that our country has in front of us. It is in this sense that I find this measure truly disgusting. I thought it disgusting when there were center-right governments and I consider it so today. I thought it disgusting when there were pure central-left governments. This is intolerable. We must learn how to deal with our issues, those relating to the functioning of our public administration and the problems we face, such as the problems of waste, to say one, which has required extraordinary police stations. If we believe that the issue of waste in a region of the Mezzogiorno, for example Campania rather than Naples city, must last five years, we are doing a serious five-year programme. Instead of extending each year, let us tell the Commissioner (which we may not call extraordinary, but ordinary) that he has to think about that problem for the next five years. But no, because we are optimistic, in three months it has to solve the problem; at the end of the year we realize that the three months have passed and the problem is still there, then we make the extension of one year. The end of that year comes and we realize that that problem was a little more complex and it needed two years and more, so we go on for another year and so on by cheating ourselves and the citizens. These things must be put to an end. This is the reform: to be aware of the difficulties we face and to know that the actions we need to take in the field need a different perspective. We do not give the impression to our citizens that we have found the solution and we are geniuses because we do it in three months, when we then make ten-year extensions. Let us be honest with ourselves and with those we administer, because we need to regain credibility. When we erase this measure definitively, I think we will have recovered much of the credibility that we have lost in recent years. [[Applause from Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Gualdani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we come to the adoption of a measure that is rich in content which is necessary for the country after a quick passage into the Commissions of merit in the Senate. The People's Area Group will vote in favour of the conversion of this decree-law. It is a legislative intervention that has been necessary for many years and for different legislation to fix, improve and give continuity to existing regulatory provisions. Entering into the substance of the measure, the various provisions are made in continuity with many measures already adopted by the current Government and aim to extend deadlines or deadlines whose importance requires a delay over time. In the measure there are some issues dear to the Group that it represents. I refer to the rule that it provides, with reference to contracts for works entrusted to it following calls for tender or other custody procedure initiated after the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of Decree-Law No 192 of 2014 and until 31 July 2016, to increase to 20% of the contractual amount the anticipation of the price to the contractor. Also in the field of infrastructure, the extension of technical and economic requirements for participation in tenders and public works, with amendments to the Code of Public Contracts (Legislative Decree No 163 of 2006) is to be welcomed. The entry into force of the provision on the electronic publication of notices and notices of invitation to tender is also extended to 1 January 2017. Finally, it is very important that attention be paid to the subject of school construction, which is a sector which must not be overlooked at all and on which technical and economic resources must be invested. The decree-law, rightly, postpones to 30 April 2016 the time limit within which the entities beneficiaries of the financings previewed from some scholastic construction programs must arrange the transmission to the Ministry of Infrastructures and the transports (MIT) of the temporary awardings of the relative intense activities, or the withdrawal of the same financings. Finally, it is expected that the structures used for school services will have to adapt to the current laws and regulations on fire prevention within six months of the adoption of the Ministerial Decree provided for by Decree-Law No 104 of 2013 and, in any case, no later than 31 December 2016. Also in the field of construction, the rule, contained in Article 2-c, which extends for 2016 the exemption from payment of the dismissal contribution for specific cases, such as dismissals made as a result of changes of contract and the interruption of permanent employment in the construction sector for the completion of the activities and closure of the yard, is positive. Another sector that must be supported and developed, as a fundamental and driving force for the economy of our country, is that of tourism. In this regard, the deadline for the demarcation of tourist districts is extended to 30 June 2016 in order to relaunch the tourist offer by the Regions. Districts are important for boosting tourism supply and improving the organisation of services, enabling businesses working in the sector to enjoy greater investment opportunities, access to credit and bureaucratic simplification. In addition, the entry into force of the waste traceability control system (SISTRI) has been extended by one year until 31 December 2016, while the current requirements and obligations continue to apply. Most of the penalties relating to the omission of registration to the SISTRI and payment of the contribution to the SISTRI registration have been halved. This reduction, which is valid until 31 December 2016, will not extend beyond the time when the new SISTRI system will be fully operational. On the other hand, it was foreseeable that a further extension would take place for this computer system to monitor the traceability of waste, since this system never started from its theoretical entry into force. With regard to public administration, the Decree-Law under consideration provides for the extension to 31 December 2016 of the deadline for the recruitment of permanent staff related to terminations in recent years, in compliance with the constraints provided for by the turnover, by the State administrations, agencies, non-economic public bodies, including the Police Corps, the National Firefighters Corps, state universities and research entities within the limits of expenditure provided for by the current legislation. Extensions to counter terrorism are certainly necessary: in particular, Article 4-b extends for one year (until 31 January 2017) the deadline by which the President of the Council may request the judicial authority that the directors of the Security Information Department be authorised for talks with prisoners and internees, in order to acquire information useful to prevent acts with international terrorist purposes. Article 4-c, on the other hand, allows for the storage for a further six months of telephone and telematic data held by telecommunications operators when storage is aimed at the detection and repression of serious social alarm and terrorism offences. Also in the matter of security, it is arranged the extension to 2016 of the maximum limits established for 2015 on the additional hours to be paid as extraordinary, in order to allow the payment of the compensation for extraordinary work to the Police (State Police, Carabinieri, Prison Police, Finance Guard, State Forestry Corps), waiting for the decree that defines the same limits for 2016. I would also remind you that Article 6 extends for one year (to 1 January 2017) the review of the system of remuneration of the distribution chain of the drug and is extended, instead, until 30 September, the current maximum rates for outpatient care, while those hospitals remain valid until 31 December 2016. Of primary importance among others is also the extension to 30 June 2016 of the possibility of the municipalities to avail of Equitalia for the determination, the liquidation and the collection of local taxes. Finally, the focus on territories facing emergency situations is positive. Article 11, in fact, extends certain provisions of advantage in order to facilitate the restoration of the territories affected by exceptional atmospheric phenomena in recent years. The areas affected by weather emergencies are Sardinia, Emilia Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto. Moreover, the paragraph 3-b said provisions aimed at ensuring the carrying out of activities of technical and administrative support to the Campania Region for the implementation of the operations of disposal of waste in storage at the different sites of the Campania Region dating back to the emerging period 2000/2009. Finally, the paragraph 3-d said provisions aimed at allowing the continuation of the reclamation of polluted sites in the land of fires: it is extended by seven months, until 31 July 2016, the commissioner's management for the safety and reclamation of the bell areas of Giugliano and the lakes of Castelvolturno. This analysis shows that the measure is rich in rules that guarantee the survival or recovery of essential sectors of the country. Certainly everything is perfect and a scrutiny of the merit committees in the Senate would allow an even richer and punctual text. I believe, however, that this year's milleprorogues are, as far as possible, dryer, less confused and better structured for topics, with more precise extensions, and without structural rules. We consider the measure a good starting point that People's Area will vote firmly and will seek to enrich in an improved way in the future measures that will see the Houses of Parliament address thorny but vital issues for the reformative drive of the country, from school to competition. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u72	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u73	Madam President, I am saying for the people who follow us from home, since there is desert in this House, that the so-called multi-pronged measure is a commitment made with the citizens and not respected. On this betrayal the government of Lucra twice: the first time, when, with a law, pretends to fight the problem and is ingratiated a part of the public opinion and the second time when, with the postponement of the law, it courtesies those who gain from that problem. In the decree-law under consideration we find a gift made to the publishers after that of the 100 million euros, which will be taken from the proceeds of the RAI canon and intended for newspapers. Let's try to visualize the sequence: in April 2014 Matteo Renzi, in the press room of Palazzo Chigi, announced with his slides the famous 80 euro bonus and its covers. One of these slides recited - the use of the verb reciting is not accidental - the end of the invitations to tender in the newspapers, which since 2015 should have been only online. Well, because this measure would result in a saving of EUR 120 million per year. Imagine the reaction of De Benedetti, holder of Democratic Party Card No. 1 and publisher of the editorial group "L'Espresso". As a result, in June 2014, just after the European elections, Mr 41 percent lowers the amendment with which he says that he has joked and will think about it later, thus postponing. A year later, in June 2015, another amendment was presented in the Senate, signed by the speakers (one of the Democratic Party and one of Forza Italia), to the new procurement code. What do they try to do? They try to cancel the obligation to advertise only online the tenders introduced the year before. The amendment passes first, but then in October 2015 it is rejected. They tried, but it went wrong. This is how we arrive at 30 December 2015, with the presentation of the multiprorogation measure, which we are now discussing. This is yet another thousand-pronged measure. Guess what's in it? Provision is made for an extension for the entry into force of the obligation of legal online advertising. Translated for those who listen to us, it means that publishers will continue to collect those 120 million euros, while public debt increases. Not content, you have also extended the obligation to move to the digital traceability system of sales and newspaper returns. This means that what newspapers really sell, which should be taken into account for the purpose of calculating contributions to publishing, is not modernised and made traceable. Added to this is the Equitalia case, as it has been postponed the deadline within which the local authorities will have to give up the use of legalized loan sharks to the detriment of the citizens, perhaps because none of you have ever felt what you feel when the folder that announces you that you will have to take away money, already limited, destined to the family to pay debts that increase disproportionately without a logic and a proportion. If only you knew what it felt like, you would not have had the courage to extend your life to this agency, automatically shortening it to small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, who sometimes not only manage to move forward with the enterprise, but also to keep themselves alive. I am talking about that small and medium-sized enterprise that we are pouring into what we feel we do not deserve - and no one should deserve it - in terms of privilege, but that has never seen a penny returned from your pockets. Madam President, these are just examples. The same is being done with the socially useful work in Calabria and with the firefighters, who are being hijacked at the service of the Presidency of the Council, but whose salaries continue to weigh on the budget of the National Firefighters Corps, which has no means and no staff to intervene in emergencies. Another disaster would have happened for the benefit of the polluting plants with a gift of 25 million especially to the Marcegaglia group, but it was foiled. On this measure the Government is going to put its trust. I did not talk about the few rules that could have made sense, because the government serves us all the time, not as parliamentarians, but as citizens, soup with the flies inside which trust is placed. So you mean you're not hungry? No, gentlemen, this is a shame. It is an insult to honest citizens who want a policy that makes a commitment and maintains it, they want a policy that makes laws sure that they are not constantly stirred up in a rancid polenta. My colleagues will speak on the matter of confidence. I simply say that we must change course really, with the facts, and not just change the wind with the words. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u76	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, I would like to make a request if my colleagues agree. We have called our party's joint groups for 7.30 p.m. to discuss the hot topic of civil unions, and this has been reported through news agencies for a few hours. I should therefore like to ask whether it is possible to suspend the sitting in advance, as the general debate is drawing to a close, so that we can continue our work on a regular basis tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u77	The Presidency takes note of your request. Normally the requests made for the Group's needs on particularly sensitive issues are accepted. And, therefore, if no comments are made, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u80	PUPPATE (PD). Madam President, I would like to bring to the attention of this House a fact, unfortunately repeated and, therefore, increasingly serious - in my view - that is taking place in my territory following an attitude taken by the Group of the North League with its regional secretary, Mr Da Re, who was also Mayor of Vittorio Veneto. He has publicly invited and, therefore, in fact imposed, according to their principles, on the mayors belonging to that political group, or in any case elected with civic lists referring to it, to boycott substantially the activity of the prefect Laura Lega - ironically it is called by name exactly as the political group to which I refer - which has been trying, since it settled, to fulfil its due task. The prefect is trying to reach a reasonable compromise that allows the reality of the Treviso to accommodate about 1,500 - will become 1,800-2,000 - asylum seekers, allowing each of the 95 mayors of the 95 municipalities of the Province to do nothing other than what has happened for any other territory of Veneto and Italy, that is to host in widespread form asylum seekers per capita with a relative expenditure of energy and difficulties, but with a consistent and positive evaluation. As is well known, this hospitality is naturally offered by our Italian Government and the European Union and prescribes a psychological type of support and also a productive experience, paid through the INAIL with the formula of the SPRAR, which provides the possibility of a free employment for the adult people who come from the territories of war that overlook the Mediterranean and that we owely host, following international agreements, but also for facts of civil and humanitarian evidence. There is therefore the exclusive possibility of participating in a work activation in favour of the host communities, which we also think is beautiful, as well as positive and generous. The prohibition conflicts with the republican institutions, which, according to Article 120 of the Constitution, must loyally collaborate with each other, in order to truly represent the country together and respond appropriately to the problems that it is forced by today's needs to live. Therefore, I consider the behaviour of 38 mayors, out of the 95 of the Province of Treviso, who do not sit at the table of the prefect and obey a disposition of political belonging of the League, seriously damaging the possibility that the communities offer themselves without serious problems. Instead of concentrating a problem in a single place, it needs to be proposed as diffused and, therefore, reasoned in much more correct and available terms. I have already tabled a question on this subject, which I believe should become the subject of debate in the question time, with the representation of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and in the presence of Minister Alfano himself. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u83	FAVERO (PD). (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to speak on an unfortunate fact which we heard on 19 February when the Vercelli police arrested the elderly residence "La Consolata" in Borgo d'Ale (Province of Vercelli) in an operation called Resident Evil. Television and social networks have already bounced back some frames and images we never wanted to see. At the time of the people are in detention or under house arrest; they are all socio-sanitary workers and nurses of the facility, which specializes in assistance to people in conditions of mental distress or suffering from motor problems. The arrested are accused of many crimes, from mistreatment to abandonment of inability and kidnapping, with the abuse of cruelty. The total number of charges is 26. According to the press by the commissioner of Vercelli, "La Consolata" of Borgo d'Ale was a reality of lager: patients were tied, beaten, insulted and, as recorded by the cameras, such unqualified episodes occurred even more than once a day. Complaints from other patients hosted in the residence would already have come to the attention of Vercelli's attorney. This story has really provoked a strong feeling of indignation and concern not only in the local citizenship, but in all the Italian population, and it is the last episode in order of news that unfortunately involves children, elderly, disabled, victims of violence and abuse by the assistance staff that is not - I repeat - everything like in Borgo d'Ale. Very large and very good operators carry on their work and their profession, but in various parts of the country there are health facilities where there are however episodes of this type; structures managed directly by the public administration, by contracting bodies such as cooperatives or associations that provide the service with their own staff. We know that at the present time, in the 12th Commission, there is a draft law which also contains provisions for the reorganization of health professions, among other things, a very important article has already been approved in the Commission which provides for the inclusion, among the aggravating circumstances common in criminal offences, of the fact committed to the detriment of persons admitted to health or socio-sanitary, residential or semi-residential facilities. I am asking a question on this subject and I ask the Minister what steps he intends to take to improve and strengthen the system of controls carried out by the competent bodies in the health and socio-health structures, to verify the competence and training of the staff, to certify all irregularities and, in case, to punish those guilty of such deplorable acts that are carried out against the elderly, children and the disabled. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u86	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens, we are about to adopt the so-called thousand-pronged decree in the next few hours. We will enter into the substance of the debate, but I would like to bring back a voice from that part of society which often has no place in Parliament and which, therefore, is forced to address the President of the Republic directly, in an attempt to see at least some of its requests heard. I bring back a letter from the association "Italia solare," which collects producers, distributors and installers of that world of renewable energy that unfortunately, in the last two years, has seen a decrease of 60,000 jobs and for which recent reforms make predict a further decrease, while the official data tell us clearly that we are in reverse with respect to the rest of the world. The letter reads as follows: "Spectabile President of the Republic, the present to signal a serious violation of the prerogatives of the Parliament that is being consumed with the approval of some provisions contained in decree-law 30 December 2015, n. 210, so-called milleproroghe. With article 3, paragraph 2, letter b) of decree-law n. 210 of 2015 the Government, in the original formulation of the decree-law thousandprorogues, had previewed that for the only customers in high voltage the most significant component of the electric tariffs, that they are the general charges of system, was no longer proportional only to the consumption of energy. This rule was clearly completely inconsistent with the multipronged measure, since it did not refer to any time limit to be extended, and it was completely lacking the requirements of necessity and urgency required by Article 76 of the Constitution. In fact, through the privileged instrument of the decree-law, a strategic principle of energy policy had been established for high voltage electric customers aimed at penalising self-production of energy and energy efficiency. In fact, insofar as the components of the tariff are not consumed there is no convenience in consuming less energy with efficiency interventions or with self-production of energy. At the time of conversion, the Government did not remove this rule as it should have done, but even extended its scope to electricity tariffs at all voltage levels. According to the new wording of Article 3, as approved to the House and sent for conversion to the Senate, for all non-domestic customers, at any level of voltage, the tariffs related to the general system charges will no longer be commensurate only with energy consumption. Therefore, not only for large high voltage customers, but for all customers (except domestic) it is approved by decree-law, in the absence of any actual parliamentary contradictory, a measure that discourages energy efficiency and self-production and encourages the consumption of energy taken from the electricity grid. I'm almost done. Include in a decree-law, on which confidence will be demanded, key energy policy choices for which there is no need and urgency is a serious violation of Parliament's prerogatives. Its immediate intervention is therefore required to request the deletion of Article 3, paragraph 2, letter b), of Decree-Law No 210 of 2015 in the phase of conversion and, if necessary, to evaluate in virtue of its constitutional prerogatives not to proceed to the promulgation of the law, which would be approved in manifest violation of Article 76 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u87	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-580.ana.u88	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 24 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.41 p.m.
