ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 13 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 11.05).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u6	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in my opinion, there was a very serious situation in the Commission yesterday. There was agreement between the majority and the opposition to proceed to the vote, at the sitting which had been set for this morning, of the amendments to the Decree-Law on judicial efficiency. There was no obstructive attitude on the part of any member of the opposition. For example, the Forza Italia Group had not tabled more than 15 or 16 amendments. Not only that, but with regard to this agreement, there was evidence that there were two or three opposition groups present, while there was a full presence of the majority groups. At the end of the sitting, at the end of the stage of the explanation of the amendments, he was prepared to proceed to the vote. Obviously, there was absolutely no point in voting because, precisely because of the agreement that had been reached, there was the absence of the members of the opposition and the massive presence of the members of the majority. There are those who interpret their role in defense of the majority and the opposition, who instead interpret their role by settling on the desires, even unacceptable, of the majority. So much so: there is no problem. This afternoon we are going to go through this decree-law and what could be settled quietly in the Commission will be the subject of strong debates in this House. You see, Mr Zanda, when you complain (as you did once), that perhaps you should work differently in the Commission to avoid a climate of great tension in this House, perhaps you should think about how the work in the Commission is being conducted. If you do not want to trust my words (but I know that you trust my words) yesterday, in the Commission, there was Vice-President Faithful, who can confirm my saying. We are going to talk about this in the afternoon, but there is one thing that I am particularly concerned about. During yesterday's sitting, having the Government motivated the extension of retirement for seven or eight people, no more, on the assumption that this extension was fundamental in order to dispose of the relevant workload existing at the Cassation, I allowed myself to ask the representative of the Government to provide us with data relating to the disposal of slopes following last year's extension. In fact, if, by hypothesis, in the year of the previous extension there were not to be an appreciable figure in relation to the loss of the slopes, but the slopes of the previous years were to be substantially similar to the year in which there was already the extension for a year of some summits of the Cassazione, the assumption would be less stated by the Government at the foundation of this measure. The Government had undertaken to bring this data to the sitting, which was then uncontested, this morning of the Justice Commission. I called the Justice Committee to see if the data had arrived and I received a negative response. Now, Mr President, you are well aware that these figures are important for the purposes of the assessments to be made by this House with regard to this extension, because it is clear that if the data were to show that the previous extension had a positive result in terms of the reduction of the slopes, no question, but if - by hypothesis - those data were not to confirm it and were to say that there is no appreciable variation between the reduction of the slopes before the extension and the reduction of the slopes in the year of the extension, the assumption would be diminished and, failing the assumption, the rule would substantially be reduced to the pension extension of seven or eight people. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to interpret this need, not only of the Forza Italia Group but, I imagine, of all senators, and to ask the Government, for this afternoon's sitting, to provide the House with the data I have requested, which are absolutely necessary for a correct conviction in relation to the vote to be expressed on Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which we shall now examine. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u7	President Palma, your request, having been expressed in this House, will be taken not only by the Presidency but, I would like to hope, also by the President of the Commission and the rapporteur of the measure. Moreover, there are now other issues on the agenda and so there is time to acquire, before the afternoon sitting passes to the subject you have mentioned, news and data that seem absolutely relevant to me. The Presidency therefore also invites the rapporteur and the President of the Commission to acquire the data requested for a better discussion to take place during the afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00619, tabled by Senator Filippi and other senators, 1-00652, tabled by Senator Barani and other senators, 1-00653, tabled by Senator Aracri and other senators, 1-00655, presented by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00657, presented by Senator Crosio and other senators, and 1-00658, presented by Senator Cioffi and other senators, on local public transport in Rome. I call Senator Filippi to explain motion No 619.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the motion that we are presenting here today, we intend to commit the Government to verifying the actual safety conditions in passenger transport carried out on the entire network running the city of Rome and on the railways granted to it. In fact, we believe that with respect to the conditions of a disordered management, aggravated in an important and significant way starting from the years 2010-2011, that they had brought in fact the company of transport of the capital in a situation of economic and financial failure such as to make possible the default, the recent actions undertaken by the new Giunta Raggi they see compromise also the strenuous effort that had previously been made by the management Rettighieri and Brandolese, settled with the commissioner management of the prefect Tronca. A short but intense period in which, as we have been able to acclaim also during several hearings in the Transport Committee of this Senate, the management of the company, in the face of a really very serious inherited situation in every respect, had undertaken a difficult and challenging path of correct management of the company, starting the restructuring of the services of line that they were pouring in desperate conditions, as frequently gone up to the honors of the chronicle also at national level. Moreover, Rome is not only a large and complex metropolis, difficult to organize in terms of mobility because it is also home to many offices and subject to a commuting of dimensions and characteristics not equal to any other Italian reality. Rome is also, much more trivially, the most beautiful city in the world, an opportunity to visit tens of millions of tourists in every month of the year and the quality of public transport is, inevitably, the business card of our country. ATAC has been a transport company on the verge of economic and financial collapse for years thanks to a debt that is estimated to be around 1.3 billion euros today. The situation of means of transport in the capital, as mentioned, is the result of years of sensible management, aggravated during the period of the management of Mayor Alemanno by events of corruption and client recruitment. To the ordinary complexity of the management has been added an absent or insufficient maintenance of the fleet means, that has led to being able to have just a third of the working material with consequent drastic suppressions of races and disservices. Even today the company has the oldest buses between the various European capitals with a life cycle now over eleven years old, when there are only four of those of a bus in Paris, five of them in London and eight in Madrid. The state of failure of the roads has affected and affects in a non banal way the conditions of stress to the main organs of operation of the means, with repairs more frequent than in the other realities. This involves the putting out of service of more than two thirds of the buses of the public transport company, to which are added the unacceptable conditions of operation of the service in the railway route Rome-Ostia, for the use of trains not suitable for that type of employment, to the failures on the infrastructure that, with increasing frequency of the disservices, has seen recently and often the users abandon the means of transport and continue on foot in conditions of absolute insecurity. And it is precisely on the issue of security that our motion, as I said at the outset, wants above all to draw the attention of the Government to carefully verify and monitor the real conditions for the protection of the safety of the thousands of people who every day take the public transport of the city of Rome. There are more and more reports of deformed tyres or treads which do not meet the standards of circulation, of wheels and rails with manufacturing defects or of stopped vehicles in repair shops due to the absence of spare parts, due to the impossibility of purchase due to the lack of funds, or of means that take fire for self-combustion. We know that the new Junta has been set up for a few months and has spent some in looking for a tiring set-up that I would struggle to define definitive, but it is also true that the proclamations of the electoral campaign made to wait results quite different from seeing the current council member boast about the arrival of new buses financed and purchased, obviously, not from this Junta. That is why, Mr President, we call on the Government to carry out a careful security check which, we are sure, will also be seen in a positive way by those who are now called to manage the company and the whole complex system of Roman transport. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u10	I call Senator Barani to explain motion 652.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u11	Mr President, no one can escape the fact that the city of Rome extends over 1,200 square kilometers and has a resident population of almost three million inhabitants, which rises to six million on weekdays for the people who arrive there. We have also seen the data of the Jubilee: only through the Holy Door of the Vatican, only this year, 18 million people have entered. Local public transport consists of the surface and metropolitan lines we know and does not escape anyone, the stops of the metro stations and the surface lines, the incredible crowd of people who, at peak hours, can not even get on the vehicles. This overcrowding, of course, has repercussions of all kinds, for example, on health during the peak period of influenza or other diseases such as meningitis or tuberculosis, which are communicable. Of course, pickpockets are on the agenda. Some friends came to see me and most of them were pickpocketed when they took a surface line or metro line. There are almost 500 reports of theft a day on our lines. In short, it is an incredible situation. There are complaints from people who come down because they do first on foot and those of staff threatened by stutters. As for the payment, I seem to see the movie of Cetto La Qualunque, which says that the ticket maker is not normal. The controls don't exist. In short, the capital of Italy and European culture is at the last place and our country seems underdeveloped. As a subtle and modest group, we have tried to understand why from January to today there is about 30 percent less racing, with a peak in September, with 12.2% less racing than in the previous month and -10% less racing than in July. The problem of the disservices of the local transport of Rome ends up crossing the borders and poses itself as a national problem, given the bulk of commuters, tourists and users from all over Italy and the world. The means are old, as the one who spoke before me said. We all see it: day after day we see bus stops, towed by rescue wagons, also in the center of Rome, not to mention the outskirts. In a year, it is said, 30% of the means will be to be destroyed; we do not make a policy of buying new means and there is no policy of mobility for about ten, fifteen, twenty years to this side, responsible all the previous administrations and mayors and the current one that, if the good weather is seen from the morning, will be a catastrophe for Rome and for the services that Rome Capital should provide. Soon, as a Group, we ask the Government to intervene, so that the public transport of the Capital can recover efficiency and quality like the other European capitals, even more populous and extended (if we look at Paris and London we marvel and our eyes shine). We call on the Government to take action to ensure the safety of passengers and staff in all public transport operations in Rome and, finally, to stimulate actions to strengthen races and surface transport, especially at peak times, to ensure that at least our friends and acquaintances who come to us are not systematically picked up.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u12	I call Senator Aracri to explain motion No 653.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u13	Mr President, we wanted to present motion No 653, recalling the fact that the Roman Public Transport Company, ATAC, which is located within the system of the Municipality of Rome, is - I would like to remind my colleagues here - the largest public company in the world. The situation of the TAC is very serious and, we believe, quite compromised: it is not only affected by a financial crisis, but also by an industrial plan. In addition, over the past few months we have tabled seven questions which highlighted this situation and proposed some solutions but, of course, no one has answered us. I would like to remind you that since 2014, a whole series of actions and agreements have been put in place with the most representative trade unions, which have involved the workers, and some objectives have been achieved and I quote one for all: the overthrow of a state, which was now pathological, relative to the demand for overtime: it was therefore, in part, obtained an efficiency of the overall system of the company. Then there were the events of the Rome Commissariat and then, as a cascade, the actions put in place by Commissioner Tronca. In this respect, I would merely point out that 58 million have disappeared for the infrastructure of the ATAC and its services, which to date has not been known how they have been used. There is another serious problem, however, that of electronic ticketing and avoidance. The municipal administration and the TAC commissioned the general of finance, Dr Rapetto, to carry out a punctual analysis. This has been done and we have asked for the results to be made public, but the municipal administration and TAC have never taken them out. At this point, considering the state of Roman transport, regarding which we believe that the Region must also do its part, with our motion we ask the Government to verify, as far as its competence is concerned, the economic and financial situation of the TAC and the state and origins of the debt for the maintenance and the infrastructures, including the rolling stock in operation, also that of the railways granted. We also ask the Government to present a national plan for the infrastructural participations relative to our Capital and to decide urgently the ownership of the railway infrastructures (i.e. the lines Rome-Giardinit, Rome-Lido and Rome-Viterbo). We demand that the Government take, as far as it is competent, a cognitive action on the real factors of productivity and profitability of the industrial plan of the TAC and evaluate, also in the light of the guidelines on the policy of management of the enterprises participated from the public administration and the instruments of law currently previewed, if the conditions exist to put in place a competition procedure, activating for ATAC a special extraordinary administration. Finally, we ask the Government to evaluate the possibility of temporarily placing the participation of the ATAC within the Ministry of Economy and Finance, entrusting simultaneously to a technical structure chosen ad hoc the task of industrial and asset recovery of the company. This - on which Mr Augello will have the opportunity to intervene - in order to allow the ATAC to arrive to 2019, when (as everyone knows) all the competition procedures will have to be activated, in which, if you do not take this road, we believe that ATAC will be put in a position to not be able to participate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Cervellini to explain motion 655.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u14	Mr President, according to the data released last week, taken from a research carried out by GFK for the Sodalitas Foundation, entitled "Environmental sustainability: what citizens ask of their municipality" among the initiatives that Italians consider priority in order to make the territory in which they live more sustainable, the first place is the strengthening of public transport (it indicates 48 percent of the respondents). Let's imagine in Rome, where the situation of the service is constantly deteriorating in the last decade, with a reduction of the races and the quality of the exercise, an increase in the frequency of interruption of the services and a constant breakdown of the maintenance of the cars, with the consequent risks in terms of safety for the users, in particular on the metro lines. Some sections, such as Roma-Lido, winner of the Caronte Award, have become the worst symbol of local transport in Italy. The overall breakdown of the running service in step with the financial and management crisis of ATAC: increase in debt, escape from tariff obligations, reduction in the number of operating drivers and cars circulating. All this within the framework of a management policy that has facilitated customer recruitment, irregularities established in the conduct of contracts and delay in the business consolidation operation. According to the inspections carried out by the Ministry of Economics and Finance and the DAC, the size of the damage caused to the treasury and the balance sheet of Rome Capital shows a consolidated debt that exceeds 1.5 billion euros. Of over 1,900 vehicles, 600 are stationary because they are obsolete. The executive activated by postponing the company's return plan to 2019, but now strong and transparent actions are needed. The new service contract 2015-2019 between Roma Capitale and ATAC seems to start on the slope of a procedure for the reduction of the business deficit and the efficiency of the service, the redevelopment of the fleet vehicles, the increase of the productivity and the infrastructural investments and in the new technologies. With the Italian Left-SEL we have always fought for the maintenance of the public vocation of companies such as ATAC and ACEA, fundamental for the city, but we also believe that the Capitoline administration should do something more than surprise spot visits to the ATAC headquarters, perhaps posting photos with the administrator who says: At work to re-launch the company. Facade operations are not enough: in the years, even recent, we have had them. Above all not enough in front of strategic deadlines like that of 2019, appointment with the contest for the confidence of the public transport service and the constraints for that on rubber. For the development of modern and sustainable mobility and the rehabilitation and redevelopment of Roman public transport, besides the competence of the management, the synergistic commitment of Rome Capital of the Lazio Region, as far as competence also on the financial front, and the national government, which must demonstrate with concrete acts the awareness that this is a decisive challenge for the capital and for the quality of life of the Roman citizens. For this reason, in our motion we intend to commit the Government to adequately support the rehabilitation action, increasing the budget of the National Fund for local public transport, which sees Capital damaged in the ratio per capita resources to citizens, to the benefit of all the other cities of our country, starting with Milan itself. For the sake of time I will not list the speeches contained in our motion and in my speech, which I shall turn to the documents. In conclusion, I believe and believe that politics must put its face to it by making radical, or even obtusely radical choices. Let me explain: the Government cannot talk about the care of the iron at the feet pushed and finance expensive and useless private highways like the Tyrrhenian; the Lazio Region cannot plan and finance the Rome-Latin highway and abandon the existing iron to the levels of current degradation, from record - I refer to the line Rome-Lido and its unattackable Italian record - because so also the famous private (among other things, always the usual known) that you want to involve choose, of course, the highways and on iron only the high speed, where there is the "polpa". Every day, hundreds of thousands of cars converge on Rome: it is absurd, it is expensive and, from an environmental point of view, it is catastrophic. Railway lines Rome-Viterbo, Rome-Lido, Rome-Latina, closure of the railway ring, surface and/or elevated iron, especially in the middle and extreme suburbs, much less expensive and with the same speed standards; on rubber, electric means or hybrids: these are the choices of field, the pact that the actors of politics must conclude. It would be an absolute revolution for Rome. I believe that we must challenge ourselves on this and on this, not on the practice of client recruitment (profiles that have determined nothing but unsustainable burdens for public companies), we must confront ourselves, stimulate and make clear decisions. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u15	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the Institute including Poggiomarino, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u16	I call Senator Crosio to explain motion 657.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u17	Mr President, talking about local public transport in our country is not easy, because we are starting from the objective fact that we are the taillight in Europe. If we are to talk about local public transport (TPL) in Rome, the issue becomes particularly difficult. It is certainly difficult to make local public transport in a country like ours, in which, over the last fifteen years, most of the funding from successive governments has been provided almost exclusively for high speed. In fact, thanks to the investments and the work done, in the field of high speed we have a position of great importance in Europe, because we are definitely competitive and an excellence, while our image is diametrically opposed to what concerns the TPL. Doing the TPL is difficult, but perhaps it is less difficult in a metropolis - since we are talking about a metropolis - compared to other realities in the province of our country, maybe in mountain areas, with over 300 square kilometers of territory and with all the difficulties connected, or with more than 400 kilometers of provincial road. In these contexts, however, we have situations if not of excellence, however potabilissima: these are scientific data, which everyone can consult. It is clear that it is difficult to speak of TPL when from a government like that today comes the proposal of a possible fusion between ANAS and Italian Railway Network (RFI), and you cannot understand what the philosophy will be that will accompany us in the next few years: if we will pierce the tires in order not to compete with the railways or if we will remove the current to the trains in order not to compete with the transport on rubber; it will be quite difficult to understand it. There are incontrovertible data from the point of view of the analyses that must be done, in order to understand the public transport in our country and it is good to mention them. As for the actual kilometers of metro and suburban railways, Milan is the city that stands at the forefront in our country, with almost 100 kilometers of metro and suburban railways available for local public transport, which are twice as high as Rome, while the other Italian cities follow, waterfall. However, if we report these figures to those of other European cities, we must blush. Without jumping into comparison with the 460 kilometres of London or the 290 kilometres of Madrid, it is enough to think that in Paris there are 219 kilometers of metropolitan network and in Berlin 147 kilometers, but the significant fact is that in Paris, considering the extension of the metropolitan line and the suburban railways, with a euro you can make more than 7 kilometers of journey and this puts the French capital at the forefront from this point of view. One thing is certain in our country: young students of the Polytechnic who study transport must be told to refer to what has been done in Rome and to do exactly the opposite of what has been done. In Rome, hundreds of millions (or perhaps billions) of euros were paid for local public transport, which were mainly used to pay salaries. What leaves the bitter in your mouth is that a few years ago you could see some state-of-the-art and electrified means of transport... [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, we are timing and I still have 45 seconds left. I said that these avant-garde means unfortunately no longer see them around, and this shows not only the lack of infrastructure and means that travel over them and the difficulty of creating new ones, but also the lack of a direction, which in fact puts Rome at the last place with regard to local public transport in Europe. So we ask the government not to change the state of affairs from evening to morning, but to start with little steps. Mr President, I would like to remind myself and the House that with the law on the delegation of fiscal federalism for the regional public transport sector we had identified a mixed financing criterion, providing that the amount of public transport funding should be determined taking into account, as well as the standard costs, also the provision of an adequate level of service. Therefore, we call on the Government to put in place regulatory measures so that funding for local public transport can be allocated on the basis of standard needs and costs, in order to reward entities that are able to provide the service at lower costs, taking into account other factors. As I conclude, we also call for cost targets for the most important factors for the production and provision of the service to be taken into account in determining standard requirements, in order to reward efficiency. We believe that this principle should also be taken into account in Rome as a criterion for planning and planning local public transport. In this way we will be able to recover the lost twenty years and it is only with this criterion that, perhaps, we will succeed in achieving a dignified goal. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u18	I call Senator Cioffi to explain motion 658.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u19	Mr President, talking about the mobility of Rome is always particularly interesting, because it should be remembered that this city has the highest percentage of cars per population in Europe, there being 710 cars for every 1,000 inhabitants. The number of vehicles circulating in Rome is about 930 per 1,000 inhabitants. So for every inhabitant there is practically a vehicle that circulates. This is the state of affairs. We also need to consider a whole range of things. There was talk of changing the approach. Great. The Capitoline Junta, through the adoption of resolutions, has started the process of revising the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan. The approach that the Junta is trying to implement is to imagine a different path, in which the means are actually directed towards the new use of energy sources (we talk about gas and electricity) and the use of public means is privileged. These are concrete acts that have been taken on. I would now like to focus on a few characteristic facts. The Lazio Region receives from the National Fund for the financial aid of the State to the local public transport charges about 100 euros for each inhabitant, while for both Basilicata and Tuscany this amount amounts to 120 euros. This first fact makes us understand that there is no perfect balance of transfer of sums from the State to the Regions. The Lazio Region does more, however, because it transfers to the local Roman public service a lower share than it should pay, so much so that despite 50 percent of the entire volume of services is at the head of Rome Capital, the Region transfers only 20 percent of the sums. At the same time, however, the Region transfers 45 percent of the funds to Cotral, which is owned by the Region itself and which carries out 20 percent of the volume of services. These are numbers that need to be taken into account. The Lazio Region does something else. The Region owes approximately 550 million euros to the Municipality of Rome. There is a great deal of discussion on this issue, because it is money for the renewal of the national collective labour agreement. The Region claims that it does not have to pay this money, but - strangely - it has always been budgeted, so much so that Commissioner Tronca, with resolution 24 December 2015, n. 35, said that those sums were due. We must understand what we are talking about, because if the Region transferred to the Municipality the 550 million euros we are talking about, we would talk about another film. It is also interesting to understand what is happening all the time. The situation of Roman public transport has evolved over the years to the present one, which sees the ATAC with a previous debt of 1,400 million euros. That is quite a number, Mr President. I also remember that there was a need to buy buses. It has been said that the money was allocated by previous administrations, but why haven't the buses been bought? Simply, the final act was blocked. We managed to unlock it, and now we're buying the buses. The first ones arrived and, by the end of December, the famous 140 buses will arrive (we are starting the procedure to buy the other 80 methane buses). There was talk of the money that was strangely moved by Commissioner Tronca; there were 58 million at the disposal of ATAC for interventions that seemed useful and strangely Commissioner Tronca made them disappear. We are talking about the age of buses, which in the capital is on average eleven years old, as has already been mentioned; in Paris it is four years old, in London it is five years old. We have buses running around Rome that have a million kilometers and on these we have to do maintenance: we have to revise the warheads, we have to let them go. This is the situation we are in. Not to mention the Roma-Ostia, where trains were put on the metro line, so we had to think about isolating them. This is the situation of the company. We therefore ask the Government to support the Junta's action to ensure that they follow the actions of words. When it comes to settling such a troubled and dramatic situation, the Government must help the Junta to ensure that the Roman citizens, who represent the citizens of the Capital of Italy, have a proper service to what must be offered to them. The aim we must achieve is to give service to the citizens. Do not think that having left ATAC in this way discourages us. We do not discourage ourselves, and we will give the citizens the service they need. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u20	I inform you that the G1 agenda has been presented by Senators Philippi, Aracri and others. As a result, motions Nos 1, 2, 3, 3, 3, 4, 5, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, Senator Ranucci is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u21	Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that it is no longer acceptable to hear what has been said about the fact that public transport in Rome has not worked for twenty to thirty years now. That's why I want to expose and deposit Trambus data until 2008. Trambus is the company that operated the Roman public service. From 2000 to 2008 it had a saving of about 1,000 people. In 2008, the number of miles from Trambus was 116 million, compared with today's 90 million. The savings were 478 million for staff costs from 2000 to 2008. The unsuited, i.e. those who no longer wanted to drive but to go to the offices, have gone from 580 to 57; the non-driving staff in 2008 are reduced to 25 percent compared to 32 percent in 2000 (which means more drivers). The truth in our country must be restored, President, otherwise even good experiences are overwhelmed by the most bieco populism, and this is no longer acceptable. I would ask you to be able to deposit the data and the full text of my speech, which is much wider, so that this truth can be restored and that all the good practices that have been carried out in this city finally have the opportunity to be recognized for those that have been. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u22	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the written text of your speech so that it is annexed to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u23	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u26	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out that, following the presentation of the G1 agenda, motion No 619 should be understood as withdrawn. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We communicated that. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). I made that clear because I believe that the government has only now received the text of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u27	We said that, following the presentation of the G1 agenda, your Group's motion and the first by Senator Aracri are withdrawn. The other motions put forward remain, unless the presenters inform the Presidency of their intention to withdraw them, which I do not think has been notified. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda and on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the motions put forward deal with this issue, I must remind you that the powers of administration and planning of local and regional public transport services are placed at the head of the region responsible for the territory, or by delegation to the competent local authority, and that the management powers of ATAC are at the head of the administrative body of the same company and, indirectly, can refer to the member Roma Capitale. The improvement of the mobility of citizens within urban areas is certainly the objective of those who govern the institutions. In fact, local public transport, also in the synergy we define for iron-rubber simplicity, is the only real structural solution to solve the problem of pollution and congestion of cities. To this end, the Government has long put in place some actions. I am referring first of all to the legislative decree on local public services, on which these days the competent Chamber and Senate Commissions are about to express their opinion. The Government, moreover, in implementation of the current legislation is already working towards a system that previews the adoption of the standard costs; in fact, a ministerial decree has already obtained the favorable opinion in the technical part of the unified Conference and is waiting for the political opinion. Then I would like to point out the renewal of the rolling stock: in fact, the Italian bus park travels with an average life of about twelve years compared to the approximately eight years of average life in Europe; hence a massive investment of resources to renew the bus park, especially in the cities. I would remind you that EUR 350 million has already been transferred to the regions for the purchase of new buses, while another EUR 150 million is ready to be transferred in the course of next year. In addition, we have allocated some 640 million for the renewal of the railway rolling stock. On the other hand, with regard to the safety of fixed-plant transport services, it remains in the hands of the central administration or, for services carried out on interconnected railways, in the hands of the National Railway Safety Agency. In particular, the supervision of compliance with the current safety regulations, for public transport services on the entire network to fixed installations of the railways granted, the metros and anything else of Rome Capital, is carried out by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport through the special transport office to fixed installations competent per territory. In this context, following a series of repeated malfunctions on the railway and metropolitan lines, the aforementioned Directorate-General has set up an interministerial commission specifically dedicated to implementing the monitoring on the process of management of the safety of the same lines developed by the company ATAC. The commission is carrying out a complex investigation which includes both the examination of documentary material and the carrying out of specific on-the-spot inspections. In addition, as part of the broader national process of implementing rail safety, they have been allocated to safety measures on the railways under concession or under the former government administration, EUR 300 million from the resources already allocated to the 2014-2020 Development and Cohesion Fund. All that has been said, I would like to express my opinion on the motions. Motions No. 619, first signed by Senator Filippi and No. 653 by Senator Aracri and others, as mentioned, have been withdrawn. On Senator Barani's motion No 652 and other senators, I give a favourable opinion, provided that points one and two are reworded. I am also in favour of motion 655, with some rewordings in points 1), (2) and (3). As I say in favour of motion 657, in view of the fact that the Government has already put in place a number of measures aimed at abolishing standard costs. On the other hand, I am against the first four points of motion No 658, because they are completely outside the competence of the State. Mr President, as regards the G1 agenda, which I received very few minutes before you gave me the floor, I would ask for five minutes to be suspended in order to assess, in particular, the last point.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u29	That sounds like a reasonable request. I therefore briefly suspend the sitting, which will resume with the vote on the items on the agenda. (The sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. and resumed at 12.07 a.m.) The session is resumed. I would like to inform my colleagues that the government representative has asked for ten more minutes to arrive at a draft agenda that can be shared. Pending the outcome of this summary, I will suspend the sitting again. (The sitting was suspended at 12.08 p.m. and resumed at 12.27 p.m.) The session is resumed. I would like to say that a rewording of the G1 agenda has been tabled, which I invite Senator Filippi to explain, whose text will be distributed in real time.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u30	Mr President, if you would agree, I would only read the amended provisions, avoiding reading the five chapters that have remained unchanged. The amended provisions are the last two periods. In particular, the penultimate paragraph is amended as follows: To assess, also in the light of the government guidelines on the management policy of the enterprises participated from the public administration and the instruments of law previewed, whether the conditions exist in order to put in place procedures suitable to support the relaunch of the company also through extraordinary procedures. The last paragraph reads as follows: "to assess the possibility of temporarily placing the participation of the ATAC within a state body with the necessary competences, entrusting simultaneously to a technical structure chosen ad hoc the task of industrial and asset consolidation of the company." These are the two parts of the reworded provisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u31	I would ask you to prevent rewording so that it can be distributed to the Groups. I call on the Government representative to comment on the G1 agenda (text 2), which has been reworded according to the illustration we have just heard and which replaces motions no. 619 and 653. I would also ask Mr Nencini to explain his opinion on the amendments he had requested to the motions for resolutions nos. 652, 655 and 658, while I recall that Mr Crosio's motion No 657 gave a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u32	Mr President, the opinion on the G1 agenda (text 2), with the amendments we have just read, is in favour. As regards motion No 652, tabled by Senator Barani and other senators, as I have already said, the opinion is in favour, provided that the first and second points of the proposal are reworded. For the first point, I would like to suggest the following rewording: It commits the Government to promote the improvement of local public transport, by implementing the legislative decree on local public services in the process of issuing it. For the second point, the suggested rewording is as follows: the Government is committed, as far as its competence is concerned, to take action to ensure the safety of passengers and staff in all public transport operations in Rome. The third point of the device is not our responsibility and, therefore, is asked to cash it. As regards motion 655, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, I am in favour of the following rewordings. At the first point of the device, the Government is committed to the compatibility with the public finance constraints, to evaluate the possibility of increasing in the three years 2017-2019 the budget of the National Fund for the competition of the State to the charges of the local public transport referred to in article 16-a of the decree-law 6 July 2012, n. 95, converted, with modifications, from the law 7 August 2012, n. 135. In the second point, the Government is committed to provide adequate funding, within the limits of sector availability, for the investments contained in the program of strategic infrastructures for the three years 2017-2019, intended for works aimed at strengthening the iron surface network in the city of Rome. In the third point, the Government is committed to monitoring, through the control bodies, the operating and safety conditions of the public transport network in Rome, with particular reference to the state of the metro lines, to protect the safety of users and staff employed in Rome. On motion No 657, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators, the opinion is in favour and I have already given the reasons. On motion No 658, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators, I take the contrary view on the first four points of the device, as they fall outside the competence of the State. [[Comments of Senator Marton]] , while asking for the following rewording of the fifth point: the Government is committed to comply with public finance constraints, to assess the possibility of increasing, for the three-year period 2017-2019, the budget of the National Fund for the State's contribution to the costs of local public transport, referred to in article 16- bis of the decree-law 6 July 2012, n 95, converted, with amendments, by law 7 August 2012, n.135.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u33	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. In the course of the explanations of vote, the proposers of the motions may declare whether or not they share the rewordings proposed by the representative of the Government. The summary of the speeches made by the speakers will enable us to conclude the afternoon sitting by voting on the motions before us.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u36	AUGELLO (CoR). Mr President, in today's debate our concern was above all to draw the attention of the Government and the Senate Assembly to what we believe to be the central problem in relation to the fates of this important public transport company. I am referring to the fact that, in practice, from 1 January 2019, by applying European legislation, we will no longer have the assignment of the service in house, because we have already hesitated a European race, which will assign to the winner - to those who will be able to win the race - the management of the Roman public transport. A race of this size, fellow senators - and I also address the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, who are now managing the city - will in fact see the administration in a very short time already committed because, for having already awarded it by 31 December 2018, it is obvious that the procedures will have to start even from the second half of 2017. Frankly - and I believe that many of the members of this House share this concern - I would only like to see a situation such that there is no longer a debate on whether or not the ATAC should be privatised because, quite simply, as it is, it is not in a position to compete in the race. This theme concerns not only the company's 12,000 employees and the other thousands that move in the induced, but it is more general and also invests the transparency that must exist towards the fate of a company of such importance and tradition. For this reason we have worked to ask that the Government still take into consideration, also in the dialogue that at this moment is starting with the municipal administration and with the instrumentation very wide made available from the already existing legislative framework - I think of the possibility to intervene with the so-called decree Madia, as well as with other legislative instruments that I know that Minister Delrio is preparing - the hypothesis of intervening on this scenario with the due timeliness. In fact, frankly, I do not believe that at this moment the municipality can solve the capital problem of the TAC. Then there are many other concerns that, in the last few hours, also concern the overall holding of the books of the TAC. It is still unclear whether or not the previous debt will be guaranteed - it has been done before - with the addition of a series of operations involving the assets of the ATAC to guarantee that debt. If this condition fails, the ATAC will probably go directly with the books in court. It therefore seemed to us - it seemed to me, Mr Aracri and many others who have worked on this day - that the opportunity was useful in order to avoid various polemics and chronicles about the history of ATAC, also because, basically, there are some reasons, not only of scandal but also of structural, for which we have reached today's situation. We need to see how to put on the table procedures that allow the government, on the one hand, and the municipal administration, on the other hand, to find, if not a meeting point, at least a way out of this situation that seems to me very much, but very carried forward and very close to getting to the point of no return. From this point of view, the final product was the agenda, on which we met with colleagues from the Democratic Party, who also put the ball back into the government's field in order to resolve the situation. It seems to me that the reasons put forward are all very good to say that, at least, a small step forward has been taken and we can now get out of here waiting to see what the outcome of this agenda might be (if it had been a motion, it would have been the same). I want to tell the government representative to pay attention to just one thing. This is not an issue with which we are making a good impression when we come out of this House on an agenda. There is an important point on this. If anyone thinks that it is enough to permanently strangle the ATAC in the next eighteen months by playing a ripple of responsibility to open the way for someone who then starts already advantaged in the race, he must know that even outside this House he will ensure that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u39	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to thank the Government for its favourable opinion on our motion. Mr Vice-Minister, allow me, without exaggerating, to say that I had no doubt, because our motion interprets the European Commission's guidelines in this respect 100%. The motion, therefore, is written not in Padana sauce, as some might think, but referring, according to the European Commission's instructions, to standard costs and other nice things. What puzzles me, Mr. Deputy Minister, is the attempt this morning to make some sort of alchemy on the part of Roman politics on the issue of ATAC. I believe that one should only be ashamed of what we have witnessed over the years in the management of Roman public transport. That said, Mr Augello, with words used in a scientific and punctual manner, such as those you have articulated this morning, you can also try to find a loophole. However, by interpreting what we want to do with this agenda, I have the vague feeling - perhaps I am wrong - that, having burned us with hot water, we are now also afraid of the cold one. In fact, we are talking about Roman issues and I remember the story of Roma Capitale. My impression is that you are trying to create within the Ministry of Economy and Finance a bad company where you can catapult ATAC and all its scumbags, trying to clean it up and recover it. We expected that a motion tabled in the Senate could have the value of indicating to national politics the principle that must inspire the planning and implementation of the transport system of a modern metropolis. Mr Vice Minister, there are all the ingredients: just know how to use them and cook them, within the directives - and not only - that the European Commission gives us. On this agenda, apart from the premises, we all like each other - and it's okay - the rest makes us blush. We raise our hands because we have no direct responsibilities. In my opinion, however, someone should be ashamed this morning. In my previous speech I recalled that local public transport is carried out with great sacrifices even outside the metropolis, in mountain areas, perhaps within areas of over 3,000 square kilometers, with over 500 kilometers of provincial roads; and also over 2,000 meters is conducted in an excellent way, maintaining the costs and providing an adequate service. In a metropolis it is only a matter of organization, and I do not say so but who knows more than I do: the European Commission says so. This morning's attempt leaves a little bitter in my mouth, and I mean it honestly. We will abstain because it is certainly an issue in which we do not want to enter, being very articulated, and not because we do not want to assume our responsibilities. But the issue is certainly not resolved by this attempt. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, and I also say this to those who have been a solid administrator. I see Mr Albertini, who was Mayor of Milan: he would never have done such a thing! Today he too, like me, would blush and probably be ashamed to have to submit to certain political issues and rules. Unfortunately, this is Roman public transport and we are all aware of it. We will abstain, arrange, your business! We had nothing to do with this. Thank you, Mr Vice-Minister, for expressing your support for our motion, which we believe is very serious indeed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u40	I would ask my colleagues to sum up, partly because some of the Commissions have been convened in the light of the time of the sitting of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u43	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we are now overwhelmed. We had sensed that, behind the presentation of what seemed to be a neutral agenda on transport safety in Rome, there was something. Once again, however, we had thought that we really wanted to discuss the substance of the transport situation in Rome and take serious commitments. For this reason, in our motion, we had indicated very simple, clear, precise issues on how to articulate the recovery action, committing the Government to do what it would be necessary to do for its capital, namely to adequately support the consolidation action, considering the possibility of increasing the national fund's budget for the State's financial assistance to the burdens of local public transport. In his explanation of the motion Mr Cervellini has already said that the affair of ATAC is also a question of structural problems that depend on the different distribution of resources. But what are we facing? An amazing agenda, absolutely obscure - perhaps we should say things as they are - which goes in an attempt to centrally invoke the management of the ATAC. Who is presenting this agenda? Senator Stefano Esposito presents it along with a part of those who may have some responsibility. Right, Senators Augello and Aracri? Or perhaps you have no responsibility in what is the situation of the ATAC? [[Comments of Senator Augello]] And so I don't know if in that technical structure we can also call the lap dancer, who is one of the many hired at that time. [[Applause from Senator Taverna]] But I find this incredible because - like it or not - we have lost the election. There is a junta and also with that - it is Roma Capitale - you have to have the opportunity to agree a process of recovery, putting the resources and also making clarity on how they have been employed throughout the period of management. We do not accept the rewording of the motion, also because here there is still money for the bridge over the Strait, when there is no euro. You are still talking about assessing the opportunity to put public transport funding, which is a problem that concerns not only Rome, but the whole of the metropolitan and iron network. You should be ashamed! [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u46	ANITORI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I ask for permission to deliver the full text of the explanation of vote. Meanwhile, the People's Area Group will vote in favour of the G1 agenda (Text 2). PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the text of the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u49	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, apart from the proposals for reformulation, the fact that we are debating a motion on the ATAC today seems to me quite peculiar. But he's in. The Giunta Raggi has been established for three months. It seems to me that it is the same number of months served by the former Councillor Esposito to overthrow the Council by majority PD, fulfilling the orders of Matteo Renzi. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A Marine Junta fired with a signature from the notary: Let's remember that. Yet, history reminds us of what has happened in the last twenty-three years: seventeen years has ruled the so-called center-left and five years the so-called center-right. And today we are told that they want to commission the ATAC, which they have reduced in this way! You must be absolutely ashamed! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] Dear comrades of the Democratic Party - as you once called yourselves, comrades - you have become sleazy Dorotheans, you are those of Gava CARDINALI (PD). You're gonna be the shark! CIOFFI (M5S). But maybe you're not even Doroteans. You're just tied to that thing called power. You're conservative, you're mummies. Then let's put them in the Egyptian Museum of Turin, Mr. President! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Let's make a resolution! CIOFFI (M5S). Let us remember that you ruled seventeen years. And 17 around me is bad luck. But it didn't bring bad luck to you. It has brought bad luck to the Roman citizens, who are the ones who pay for your misdeeds. You're the ones from Mafia Capitale. Let's never forget it! You were the ones called hungry by Buzzi, those who have in their ranks Congressman Michela Campana, who in an intercept called Buzzi his great boss. You are the ones who had in their ranks the husband of the lady we talked about earlier, who is the councilman with the house in the Capitol, sentenced to two years and two months for corruption. We could also talk about Luca Odevaie, the facilitator of Buzzi, who was the deputy chief of staff of Veltroni: two years and two months, 250,000 euros of bribes to return. We could make a long list, but comfort you, friends of the PD, because you are in good company, which is the Alemanno Junta who is on the other side, who hired 850 people, who gave the super-premiums to the executives, who removed 100,000 euros to ATAC for the financing of the Festa del cinema in Rome. This happened and this is the reality. Do you know what you left in Rome? You have left 14 billion debts in the commissioner's management and 1.4 billion debts on ATAC. And today from the top hat you pull out the request for police station? But you're in charge! You must be in charge, because you have brought this company to ruin! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What are you talking about? You should exquisitely and humbly be ashamed of what you were, what you became, and what you will always be! You guys really suck! My neighborhood...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u50	Save it for us. The tone is clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u51	CIOFFI (M5S). You'll understand why a normal citizen in here feels angry when he sees what these gentlemen do. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's running out of time. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Take your finger off! Give him the video! GAETTI (M5S). Bravo, video! CIOFFI (M5S). As regards the Government's opinion on point 4, I would like to remind the Government that our request to hear the mayor of Rome is a provision of law. Article 4, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree no. 156 of 2010 states, in fact, that the mayor of Rome can be audited at meetings of the Council of Ministers when there are on the agenda topics related to the functions of Rome Capital. Do not tell us, therefore, that these things do not conform to what the Government can do. Once and forever, you of the government, since you have to do things in the interests of the citizens, have the courage to tell these gentlemen that they are the ones who are the shit. Act like a government! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u53	Senator Stefano Esposito will be very short, also because he must go to the Egyptian museum in Turin.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u55	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, it has been renovated and modernised and it is very beautiful. Unfortunately it does not contain a section for the theatre, otherwise Senator Cioffi would be absolutely the protagonist. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio]] I have seen Mr Cioffi particularly agitated and, on the other hand, I believe that the only agitation we must have in this debate should be linked to putting in place all the instruments that guarantee the citizens of Rome that they have an adequate public service and above all that it takes place in full safety. I am missing the reason why more resources are requested from the Government for ATAC - also requested by my colleague De Petris, who will excuse me for this - without there being an evaluation that will naturally affect history and, therefore, also the administrations that have governed this City, although we are certain that the tradition of Petroselli, Argan, Rotelli and Veltroni is noble. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Otherwise it seems that Mr Ranucci is right to say that all cows are the same color. TAVERNA (M5S). It's about Veltroni! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Unfortunately, we know that in politics not all cows are the same color. [[Senator Cioffi's comments.]] Senator Cioffi, let's talk about merit, which is very simple. ATAC - I wanted to give you this information - in the story of Mafia Capital has not played a role for the moment. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Ah, that's it! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Who has opened the front - you decide, Senator Cioffi, as they are called - of the robberies, of the misappropriation of public money, of the lack of transparency on the 1.4 billion euros of citizens invested by the public administration on ATAC, of which it is not known what the use has been, given the conditions under which the public transport system is placed, has not been someone who is not different from the Democratic Party. If Cantone has been able to certify that the contracts in that company for the last five years have been out of order, it is because someone has opened drawers. So you see, Senator Cioffi, the advisors suggest to the administration that you claim not to go back on this, because the acts of these three months certify exactly the opposite, namely that all those in that company who opened the drawers you took them and sent them home. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Cioffi]] You sent them home! You sent them home, dear Senator Cioffi, and replaced them with relatives of your elected administrators in the 15th Town Hall. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senators Cioffi and Tavern]] CIOFFI (M5S). Shut up! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Do you understand? So we don't take lessons on the subject from you. Not one! [[Senator Cioffi's comments.]] ATAC is a local company, but with a national vision because it offers a service not only to Roman citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u56	You must conclude, Senator Stefano Esposito.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u57	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). I shall conclude, Mr President. Be courteous, I would also have additional time, from other groups, but I won't use it all. [[Senator Cioffi's comments.]] So, dear Senator Cioffi, all the ways to prevent that company, given the strategy you put in place, including not to value the heritage that that company has... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] TAVERNA (M5S). In three months, clown! NUGNES (M5S). It's abuse! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). No! Because you had an operation. That company has real estate. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u58	Talk to the presidency, Senator Stefano Esposito.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u59	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). And that fortune would pay ATAC's debt today. You decided not to value him and do other debts. Take responsibility for your choices. We assume the responsibility of asking the government not to put more money without a project, but to verify the project. [[Repeated comments from Senator Cioffi.]] And who knows that today, the mayor Raggi, who finally goes to Palazzo Chigi, will not ask, as he made known in the newspapers, a billion euros lost to manage with a management friend of friends, that is the clientele system that we fight and that you have put back on the field just arrived. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] MARTON (M5S). What are you talking about? EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Respond to this, dear Senator Cioffi: you have brought back the worst of the worst of the clientelism that destroyed that company. You put him on the field! [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u60	Senator Esposito, you finished your speech. Senator Aracri, you did not make an explanation of vote, so it is understood that, after the withdrawal of your motion, you agree with the drawing up of the G1 agenda, as reworded. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Before moving to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] Therefore, the vote will be put to the vote first on motion 652 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani, whose Group accepted the rewordings. In fact, Senator Eva Longo has already informed the President of the Assembly that she accepts the rewordings. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 652 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u61	Mr President, I would like to ask for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u62	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting. We will see at the Conference of the Leaders how to continue the work on this and on the other motions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-702.ana.u63	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.58 p.m.
