ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 14 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u4	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on document LVII-b, No 1. The rapporteur, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u9	Mr President, I would like to make a brief oral report asking for permission to deliver the written text of my report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u10	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u11	Mr Guerrieri Paleopti, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to remind you that today Parliament is called upon to examine the report presented on 19 December 2016 by the Government of the Chambers, a report provided for in Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012, with the aim of updating the policy objectives of public finance. As is well known, the rule provides, in paragraphs 1 to 3, that, if the Government, in order to deal with exceptional events, considers it indispensable to temporarily depart from the public finance programmatic objective, present to the Chambers, once heard the European Commission, for the consequent parliamentary deliberations, a report with which it updates the programmatic objectives and makes a specific request for authorisation, which must indicate the measure and the duration of the deviation from the set objectives, as well as defining the plan of return towards the programmatic objective. For exceptional events, the same rule defines periods of severe economic recession, such as recessions that affect the euro area or the whole of the European Union or, at the same time, extraordinary events that are outside the control of the State, as serious financial crises that may have a significant impact on the country's financial situation. Paragraph 6 of the same rule states that this procedure shall also apply where the Government intends to resort to debt to carry out transactions relating to financial consignments, in order to deal with exceptional events. This is precisely the case today. The report presented by the Government refers specifically to this circumstance, foreshadowing a possible intervention for a maximum amount of up to 20 billion euros to be found through operations of issuance of public debt securities. The prerequisites for such intervention are seen in the event that, following so-called stress tests, carried out on the basis of the current framework of the prudential supervision of the European Union, a lack of capital in the presence of adverse scenarios can be highlighted, given the severity of the tests themselves; a deficiency that - the report stresses - could be difficult to recover only on the market both for the present conditions of the financial markets, and for the size of the deteriorated loans determined following the recent and prolonged economic and financial crisis. In other words - this is important to stress - while recognising that the Italian banking system is overall sound and, therefore, does not run the risk of systemic crises, the report recognises the possibility of some well-identified cases of crisis, which can certainly be addressed with market instruments, but at the same time can provide for public intervention. In other words, in some of these cases, if the market is not enough, the Government wants to guarantee itself the resources to be able to launch a sort of public security network, in order to avoid the resolution of banks at the dramatic costs that it could entail. We must also remember that overcoming the crises of some credit companies through public intervention could benefit not only the whole of the country's productive activities, restoring strength to the function of financial intermediation of the banking system, but also to savers themselves, including those who had to invest in actions of banks initiated towards recovery and therefore able to make good profits again. In all these cases of crisis, in the light of the provisions of Directive 59 of 2014 of the European Union, public support shall be allowed in order to prevent situations of difficulty. It should be recalled that this directive, which was transposed into our legal system by means of two legislative decrees of 2015, decrees nos. 180 and 181, clarifies that the provision of extraordinary public financial support should not activate the resolution procedure when a Member State, as a precautionary measure, takes over a share in a bank, including a public-owned bank, which meets the capital requirements. This may occur - for example - when that institution has to raise new capital due to the negative outcome of stress tests, which are usually based on relatively restrictive scenarios and are carried out by the Supervisory Authority. Therefore, following the negative outcome of these stress tests and with the need to preserve financial stability, in a context of possible systemic crisis, the public intervention wants to compensate for the deficiency of the same banking institution and the possibility of raising capital on private markets. Therefore, in accordance with Article 32 of that directive, in these cases a serious disturbance of the economy is to be avoided and financial stability is to be preserved by granting extraordinary public financial support to a bank, without this leading to the failure and subsequent resolution of the bank and, therefore, on the basis of the conditions laid down in that directive. The measure contained in the report is based on two pillars: the first is a liquidity guarantee to restore the banks' medium- and long-term financing capacity; the second provides for a programme to strengthen the banks' assets in compliance with EU rules. The first pillar relates to debt guarantees and forms part of the European Union's regulatory framework which, months ago, authorised the Italian State to provide liquidity guarantees of up to EUR 150 billion. This type of guarantee represents a kind of contingent liability for public debt - one might say - which is likely to become such. The second leg, i.e. the asset strengthening programme, is related to the assumption of direct participation in banks after the rule of burden sharing has been applied, i.e. the partial sacrifice of private savers, by means - for example - of converting the subordinated debt held by them into shares. The report presented by the Government reaffirms the precautionary purpose of the intervention assumed and specifies that it cannot be yet detailed both in the timing and in the manner and in the individual measures in which it will be articulated. In any case, it is aimed at ensuring two basic objectives: an adequate level of liquidity to the banking system and at the same time a strengthening of the banks' assets. In order to achieve this objective, the Government intends to use public debt issue operations up to a total amount of up to EUR 20 billion for 2017 in order to find the necessary resources. It is, of course, a significant amount of resources, but they serve precisely to make it clear to investors and markets that no bank in our country that has solvency requirements will be initiated in resolution, in other words it will be left to fail. It is also clear that they will be able to use much less than the 20 billion estimated, also because what will happen - and in part is happening - is that investors, once they have understood the framework of planned interventions, might find it convenient again to invest at current prices that are - as we know - quite low, aiming precisely at a recovery of value in the years to come. This - as already mentioned - is already happening at this stage, where on the markets there is a recovery of the confidence of investors towards the Italian banks, confirmed by a relatively positive trend in the last few weeks of the quoted bank securities. Of course, it must be stressed that it is equally important, together with the strengthening of the assets of the banks in crisis, to promote restructuring, mergers and rationalization, as well as solutions to the structural problems of the banks themselves. Many of these problems are actually not only Italian, but are shared by other European banking systems: they are called low profitability, excessive fragmentation, largely obsolete business models, to be revised and relaunched. It is therefore important that, when granting the authorisation, it is recognised that recapitalising without restructuring would not enable the objective of real consolidation to be achieved. Therefore, alongside the capital and financial strengthening operations, precise commitments by the banks in the reorganisation and restructuring of their activities must be associated. In order to return to the report, it notes that any new issues of government debt securities would end up modifying both the planned objectives of public needs and public debt, approved in the resolution of approval of the Update Note to the DEF 2016, and the net balance to be financed from the budget of the State as set out in the 2017 Budget Act; instead, they would have no effect on the structural fiscal variables that - as we know - then guide the path that has been defined also through the last budget law to return our balance and, therefore, to decrease the stock of public debt. Finally, it is important to point out that the amount of the effects that will be determined in concrete terms as a result of the issuance operations envisaged by the Government, effects on the policy objectives of both needs and public debt stocks compared to those indicated in the DEF and in the budget law, will depend on the specific type of interventions that will be implemented and on the actual resources that will become necessary. In both cases, these are the quantities to be specified once the action to be taken in favour of banks in crisis has been concretely outlined. In conclusion, it should be mentioned as interventions of this kind, namely a public intervention in the assets of banks in crisis as well as in the refinancing of these banks, which have affected other countries before us (i.e. the cases of the United States and Sweden), once they have determined the conditions of a return by public intervention have given rise in both cases (the Swedish case and that of the United States) to returns, i.e. surpluses in the overall maneuver of substantial magnitude. The intervention not only didn't cost, but it even made profits. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u12	Pursuant to Article 6 (3) and (6) of the aforementioned Law n. 243 of 2012, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the use of debt in order to deal with extraordinary events is adopted by an absolute majority of the respective members. I would remind you that the timing of the debate has been divided between the groups as set out by the Conference of Leaders. Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u13	Mr President, I am speaking to accompany a statement of consent to the authorisation measure with some considerations relating to the need, on several occasions mentioned, for organic legislation on credit and the management of the financial system. We are aware that the authorisation requested today is an inescapable requirement and that it is absolutely necessary to do so. However, we also regret a number of delays precisely in establishing a reference regulation that is intelligible not only to financial operators and experts in the field, but also and above all to citizens and recipients of credit services. In fact, we believe that it is absolutely essential not only to secure this system, especially in order to protect savings, but also to make the operation of the credit and banking system more transparent and more efficient, depending on the task it must carry out in support of the economy and the enterprise. Otherwise, we would do rescue operations that remain firm in a sort of photograph of the existing, which does not activate any kind of healthy return to operation of the system in favour of the economy, the revival of business activity and employment. I think, Mr President, that this is an issue that the Government must begin to address. Do what you can in the times that are given. It will remain - if it remains - an inheritance to be developed in a subsequent legislature. We, however, must begin to make visible, also from the regulatory point of view, what is the functioning of the financial system, of credit and of the banks, what are the guarantees to which the citizen can refer when he deposits his savings in the availability of that system, which are the services, their costs and how they can be made to the maximum suitable for the revival of our economy, which is already - as we know - for a long time in a state of crisis.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u14	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u15	Mr President, I am not hiding a certain embarrassment in intervening, because I have been given four minutes on a measure of EUR 20 billion that has been proposed in haste to resolve a situation, that of the Italian banking system, which has reached the limit of collapse. I would also like to take advantage of these considerations to the attention of the self-serving Minister, Senator Finocchiaro, who is delegated to relations with Parliament, so that such an attitude will no longer be repeated in the future. We lose hours and hours in unnecessary discussions but, when it comes to talking about billions of euros, which are the result of the sweat of millions of Italians, we dedicate a truly infinitesimal time. I will only be able to develop the titles of the intervention that I have studied and prepared. I start from what Cardinal Bagnasco said last night on the occasion of the Mass for Christmas in the Basilica of Santa Maria sopra Minerva: You cannot live a day, flattened on the present, limited to sometimes mediocre goals because they are linked to small individual interests. Evidently he knew that the subject at our examination would be under discussion in the Senate today and he wanted to make a reference to all of us. The problem of banks had to be addressed a few months ago. All the political groups had submitted a request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to study the condition of the Italian banking system. Instead we have failed four banks - indeed six, if we include also the Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Banca Veneta - and today we are here to prepare a measure that concerns a mountain of billions that are not there, because the provision had to be made in debt, in order to resolve a situation that has come to collapse. And I am also disappointed to read the words of Minister Padoan, who said that the Italian banking system is not as a whole on the edge of the abyss, adding, however, immediately after that, without a precautionary intervention, the credit system could suffer incalculable damage. I think there is a contradiction in your speech. I believe that we could have used an argument like this, eviscerated it and dealt with it with the law of stability. But in that context, the government was committed to proposing a whole series of trade marks to gain consensus for the constitutional referendum, so this burning argument could not be put on the plate. We are at 20 billion more debt. Of course, this government, together with the two previous ones, has produced 400 billion debt and, therefore, 20 more or 20 less makes little change. I hope, however, that I will vote in favour of this measure in the presence of a commitment by the Government to use part of the money to create prison cells, because those responsible for the failure and disaster of the Italian banking system must go to jail. [[Applause from Senator Council. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u16	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u17	Mr President, we entered this House in March 2013 and immediately saw the various governments - this is the third - move to take measures in favour of the banks. Too bad you have never been able to solve the problem of the Italian banking system: indeed, you have made it worse. The crisis in the Italian banking system does not depend solely on the economic crisis that has affected the country and the whole of Europe. The problem of the Italian banking crisis is the bad management of Italian banks. And here you are involved, there is politics, with the interventions that it has made out of politics and with the interventions made through politics. You made the decree-law IMU-Bankitalia trying to clean up the balance sheets of the banks, but you failed. We've been warning you about the banking system for about four years, but you've moved on, you've continued. Out of 25 banks that have not passed stress tests 9 are Italian. This result came out in July and today you come here to ask for 20 billion to intervene on the Italian banking system, without any plan. You have no idea what you can do. Continue to put patches on patches, such as that of DTAs, i.e. tax credits for banks, which however cannot be used because they do not earn. 10:06 a.m. (BOTTIC FOLLOWS). You took money out of the state budget to put it in the banks, but they're still, they're fruitless. So, how can we give you a blank bill, a credit card that you can spend where you want for 20 billion euros? Sometimes there is doubt whether you are incapable or in bad faith, because we who are the inexperienced, those who come from the street who do not know anything about how the world works, we had put you on the alert and asked you to implement a perfect plan to maintain the confidence of the Italians in the banking system. No, you don't! Minister Padoan, until last October, declared that the rescue plan of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena would be successful and the former President of the Council invited citizens to invest in the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. This is the result: we must intervene on the Mount of the Paschi di Siena. Again, in this report you do not say anything and, indeed, if you read it for good you understand that the only public intervention that the State can do is what happens after the conversion of subordinated bonds: tell the small savers, because already there has been a threat from the Board of Directors Monte dei Paschi di Siena: "O convert them, or we convert them." However, I would like to remind all citizens that those who voted for the transposition of the European directive were you, who are now so afraid of what will happen to the Italian banking system. On December 4th you received 20 million no, now ask for 20 billion euros: I think you deserve 20,000 billion kicks in the butt! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u18	Senator Bottici! Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u19	Madam President, I share Mr Ceroni's words and, because the time is short, I will just make a few points. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with the choice that our Group will make, with a great sense of responsibility. However, our vote, aimed at carrying out this rationalization work, does not prevent us from making a series of criticisms which I would like to summarize in a telegraphic way, given the tight deadlines. Firstly, I would like to refer to the irresponsibility of the former President of the Council, Renzi, who knew the need for these measures, but postponed them to the following referendum, so as not to obscure his useless and lying referendum campaign. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Secondly, I quote the previous responsibilities of the Government resigning in banking matters: no one forgets the suspicions of insider trading that weigh on Dr. Carlo De Benedetti and on other bankers, who - the chronicles say - would have had anticipated news of the famous decree-law on popular banks: prosecutors of the Republic, at what point are the investigations on Carlo De Benedetti and others, since we are talking about saving banks whose failure would be so disastrous that all the Parliament is gathered here today, near Christmas, to avoid greater damage? I am not here to dwell on all the disasters caused by the previous government, which, moreover, has the same composition as the current one, on the case relating to the Bank of Etruria and on others. We are quick to put the EUR 20 billion in the calculation of public debt, but we have not been as quick in ensuring the refreshment of those savers who have been cheated by having them buy securities and also by changing their bank profiles, turning them into a rider of finance without their knowledge. We would like to see these refunds as quickly as possible. As far as the Monte dei Paschi di Siena is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget the horrible history of PCI, PDS, PD and surroundings, the 28 billion euros of suffering: money that has been wasted by the political managements of the left of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. It's a shame in Italian history. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] that infamous a banking institution that has centuries of history, that was to be a boast of Italy and the economic history of Europe, and that was plundered! In conclusion, Madam President, let us remember Mussari, who as President of the ABI came to draw Parliament's attention: he knew more than we did, because he also made the scams and the summit of that bank was marked "left." We want to save the financial system and savers, but our vote is certainly not an endorsement to those who have disarmed, looted and robbed the Italian banking system and who will have to respond, as Senator Ceroni said before, to those who should use more handcuffs and less urgent measures. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u21	Gentlemen, I have discovered these days, after so many years, that Santa Claus exists and brings 20 billion gifts to the banks. Unbelievable! I expect headlines in tomorrow's newspapers: $20 billion for banks. You shredded them and reduced them to tiny fragments with covers. (at 10.14 a.m.) (Following MARTELLI). Where do you find money, citizens in Parliament, for the income of citizenship? Stupid we are, we haven't thought about it: enough debt. What's it take, 15-20 billion euros? Attention, the 20 billion euros planned are only for 2017, so the door is open to do even more debt. Small difference: the debt can only be done by you who are in the government and not us. We have to work hard to show how we cover our expenses, while you say, I cover them with a new debt. Simple and banal (what stupid us who haven't thought about it). Let us talk a moment about this EUR 20 billion. About two years ago, on the occasion of the approval of the so-called IMU-Bankitalia Decree-Law, we citizens of the Movement told you that the 7.5 billion euros were just a buffer to recapitalise some of the banks in liquidity crisis and that the bubbon would burst later. That's why we got there. Why haven't you launched this measure before? For example, in July, as my fellow citizen Laura rightly said earlier? Because if you had adopted it in July you would have burned 40% yes in the referendum and won no with something like 102 percent. You have therefore waited and, as the proverb says, the pitiful doctor makes the verminous plague. Let us remain on these blessed EUR 20 billion. I have the chills when I hear that these 20 billion could be spent on repatriation of banks and on very generic recapitalisation interventions, and anyway after there was the division of loads (the so-called burden sharing). That means subordinated bondholders are screwed. In fact, or they get ripped off because they have accepted the conversion of card to card, i.e. bonds against shares (so their money saw them the first time, when they gave them to the bank, and then never again because they are now just seeing paper), or they get ripped off because of the increase in capital, which has a fork of valuation of the shares between 1 and 24 euros. It is clear that it is very easy to price these newly issued shares, which will be worth between EUR 1 and EUR 24; but who could think of intervening with an investment only as a voyeur in this way? No one. You have mentioned the Swedish banking system and the American case, but to the contrary because in Sweden, the United States and also in the United Kingdom the intervention has been so modulated: I nationalize, I take it; I look at what's inside, I put in jail those who have been wrong and then, when the bank maybe I have healed it, I sell it. So did the American Treasury with the American international group: it put 182 billion (in fact they did not set a limit) and came out with 22.4 billion gain. The Bank of England has also done so in the United Kingdom with the Royal Bank of Scotland: it has put 84 billion and has begun to get out of the capital by making capital gains. This is a real sensible operation. Even the fact that I am told that the EUR 20 billion is for 2017 makes clear what I suspected, namely that this figure is only a provisional ceiling. But it is right that this is the case when dealing with a banking system that has 350 billion stranded credits. Moreover, with the case of Japan and then the American one, history teaches that it is not a roof of 20 billion (I say a hypothetical figure) that can save goat and cabbage. This means opening the strings of the Italian citizen's purse and putting in not only the hands, but all the arm. Just say it clearly, but you can't keep trying to touch the water with a finger, knowing that you have to get completely wet. I would like to say something else about this EUR 20 billion. You still don't mention the stone guest named Monte dei Paschi di Siena. Here I have quarterly reports (third and fourth quarter 2015 and third and fourth quarter 2016). The problem of everything lies in the Mount of the Paschi of Siena. You're letting yourself look, you're letting the subordinate obligationr lose us, you're letting the shareholders drown and then, when it's all over, you're gonna decide what to put in it. But what are you going to do? At least I'd like to hear about it. Do you want to go to the options market, rake up the options and then take all the inoptate, i.e. a small equity stake and you don't know how it ends? Do you want to get in more heavily? What does it mean to repatriate? Does that mean you want to make another capital increase that you fully subscribe to? These things you have to tell her if you ask for 20 billion also because, as has been mentioned several times, you deny 17 billion for citizenship income and then ask 20 to throw them in the cauldron of the banking system? That's not how it works. In our opinion this is only for one thing, that is to close Pandora's box waiting for it to open at another time to allow Mr. Renzi - who is always there, hidden behind that chair - to continue to say that it is not his fault, leaving the hot potato in your hand. You want this hot potato? I don't think that's a great idea. It is then time to say things clearly: since 2013 a request from the Commission for inquiry has been made on the Mount of the Paschi of Siena, right on the Mount that bought a bank that was worth 3 billion like Antonveneta, paying 10 - it is all in the act - and returning to ABN AMRO the 7 billion that Antonveneta bank still owed. That is, a bank that was worth 3 was paid 17, when still the Mount of the Paschi of Siena was managed only - we know - by the Democratic Party and not a word about it. But a little respect for the citizens and for the poor Sienese do we want to have it? We don't want that, either? We will continue to insist on the setting up of this Commission of Inquiry in all quarters, but also on yours because you proposed a Commission of Inquiry into the four banks in resolution and then you left it there. Another electoral butt. The Italians no longer want to hear about electoral "shots," they want to see the people in jail who were wrong. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u22	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u23	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the main failed revolution of the Renzi Government is the reform of public finances and their security. The subject that is on the agenda today had to be addressed before and not at the last moment, as is happening. We have seen many maneuvers on the state accounts to create easy electoral consensus, in Italy and abroad, with a myriad of extemporaneous measures. The public debt is worth, in October, 2,223 billion euros, with 116 billion more than when Renzi went to Palazzo Chigi (it was 2,107 billion in February 2014). I remember that for the umpteenth time, because the numbers are numbers: with the Berlusconi government there were 316 billion less debt, the debt-to-GDP ratio was 120 percent in 2011, after the budget law it stood at 132.8 percent. As a result of the 20 billion new issue of public bonds, it will bring well over 134%, greatly complicate the return plan towards the objectives of the Stability and Growth Pact. It should also be noted that the total expenditure of the State, which rose as a result of the budgetary manoeuvre to 861 billion in 2017, will increase to 881 billion in terms of competence and, in terms of cash, will be 899 billion: a figure close to 900 billion, another historical record of the Government. In addition to this report, the appropriate changes to the general totals of State expenditure, which have just been approved by the Budget Act, should therefore be approved for the three-year period 2017-2019. It should also be said that the law implementing the principle of balanced budget provides that there may be deviations from the policy objective in the event of events deemed exceptional. However, we must indicate the measure and the duration of the deviation, we must establish the purposes for which the available resources should be allocated as a result of the deviation, we must define the return plan towards the programmatic objective, but above all - and this is the most important point in our opinion - the resources found on the market through the issuance of new public bonds can and must only be used for the purposes indicated in the request. Let us now come to the subject of the report. We are certainly on the side of savers, but we cannot forget some points from which we absolutely cannot ignore. We expect the government to report - and this is our first request - in a rigorous and detailed way on the use of resources. We said this yesterday and we repeated it today in the Commission: we need the Government to actually involve Parliament in the process of decrees and not to leave it in the margins of such a complicated and important operation for the country. We need the government to draw up a timely plan of return to policy objectives and, ultimately, we absolutely need all citizens to know who has responsibility, who has managed the banks, who has wronged and who is clear for all this responsibility that must be highlighted. Of course, we expect that the resources that exceed those actually necessary to secure the banks will be immediately returned to the subscribers of public bonds, avoiding the persistence of their weight on the burdens of public debt: it is a commitment we owe to our children and the future of this country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u24	Senator Del Barba is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to vote on is certainly of an extraordinary nature, both because of the unprecedented circumstance that inaugurates the provisions of Law No 243 of 2016 in Article 6, as the rapporteur recalled, and because of the scope of the intervention carried out: "in order to protect the economy and preserve the economic and financial stability of the country, the strengthening of the capital of the banking system and to ensure the protection of savings." Today we are not faced with the actual provision, the decree-law or any decree-laws that will deal with the two pillars of intervention announced by Minister Padoan in his hearing, namely recapitalisation and support for liquidity. Today we simply allow, with a prudential measure, up to 20 billion euros of availability that will allow to evaluate various hypotheses, all with the aim to further safeguard the savings. The dimensions of this intervention, unprecedented and remarkable, make it clear that, after a long series of accommodations and corrective interventions and aid to the Italian credit market, we are now in a position to have and be able to deploy a protective net that knows how to intervene decisively in the most critical cases, demanding a complete reorganization and a decisive change of page compared to the previous managements, of which the return plans will be the severe feedback. It is very clear that the figure authorised has a signal effect, in order to use the words used in the Commission by Minister Padoan, that is large enough to provide a solution for the needs so far assumed and not too large to suggest problems larger than those which have been debated for many months now. We are therefore called to express ourselves on a matter as simple as it is central: with this authorization we are dealing with savers or - perhaps it is better to remember - we continue to deal with savers after doing so with countless interventions to date. Never a public money has been destined to banks, bankers; always, always, also and especially in the cases of which recent news reports have dealt (often indecently), public money spent went to savers and to protect savings. When we talk about savings in Italy we refer to important figures, which many countries envy us. According to the data of the Bank of Italy, in 2015 the financial assets of Italian households amount to more than 4,000 billion euros and among them the bank deposits amount to 1,099 billion euros, of which 1,067 billion euros (almost total) are held in Italian deposits and only 31 billion euros in foreign deposits. We also have a bond value of 442 billion euros, shares in common funds of 456 billion euros, the value of shares and equity of 957 billion euros; the value of insurance, pension funds and TFR finally amounts to 864 billion euros, of which the reserves branch life contribute 573 billion euros. Faced with this enormous financial wealth of our citizens, the total liabilities of Italian households amounted to 918 billion euros, thus generating a net balance of 3,198 billion euros. This level of saving of Italian households is an obvious wealth for the whole country and must be protected, as required by our Constitutional Charter in Article 47. The Constitution states that savings, in all its forms, must necessarily be the subject of specific protection by the Republic and, after the reform of Title V, identifies in the State legislature the body competent to regulate both the matter of the protection of savings and, more generally, that of financial markets. It is for this reason that, even in the thought of one of the greatest Italian liberal economists, Luigi Einaudi, it is admitted that the State can and must intervene in support of the banks in difficulty to protect the savings of the families: the costs of the rescue - Einaudi said - do not have to reflect on the public finances in order not to generate and justify on the part of the administrators, behaviors less than prudent. However, Einaudi was well aware in his analysis of the public good of financial stability and the safeguarding of savings. This made him consider it entirely natural, in the presence of running dangers to the withdrawal of deposits (with consequent losses and failures of companies and banks), that other institutions of proven solidity could commit themselves to the guarantee of deposits and savings collected by the bank in difficulty, assuming its assets and trying to realize the credits. In the presence of masses of financial wealth of the Italian families so important, even according to the current juspublicist doctrine, no legal system can be disinterested to a macro-economic size of such importance and scope nor can it entrust the protection of the latter only to the private instruments that can be operated by the parties in the presence of the conclusion of a contract. It is certainly the State, therefore, that can and must actively take responsibility for the protection of citizens' savings. Being understood as a provision of wealth, savings become a real public good that must be assured and encouraged by the State, which must guarantee the social value of the protection of the good's savings', also and above all in times of unfavourable economic conjuncture. Precisely from the text of Article 47 of the Constitution emerges the functional link between savings and credit and, therefore, with banking activity, that is, the necessary instrument to ensure that savings do not remain an end in themselves but are productively employed. Protection of banks in difficulty means protection of the private savings of Italian households and citizens. The Constitution obviously requires not only the objective protection of savings, but also the subjective protection of the saver, as a consumer of banking, financial and insurance products and services, a weak player acting on the market. In this sense, we understand the connection that comes to be determined between the saving and its popular origin referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 47 of the Constitution, according to which, precisely, the saving must be appreciated above all from the subject that is its owner, that is, the saver, and starting from the awareness that this ownership has the most of the times popular origin and therefore in the work and in the fruits not consumed of this work. In other words, it originates in a matter of the existence of people: work. This constitutes a further reason which requires and determines the intervention of the State in order to protect the asset's savings. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in a very responsible way, during the debate in the Commission and also this morning in this House, there has emerged a general sense of sharing compared to what we are going to authorise today. Even in this sharing, legitimate and useful actions of criticism addressed to the past have been heard. Some people claim that it could be done sooner, even though no one has ever had the courage to do so. Today it is easy to say, but the fact remains that these governments have put in place numerous, continuous and consistent instruments to defend savings and the financial system. Someone else has made criticisms of the future: who asks to collaborate in the drafting of the next decree-laws (which seems to me an important and constructive criticism), who suggesting constraints of coverage, who indicating and suggesting modalities of intervention. All this seems to me to be very welcome and a sign of Parliament's closeness to the problems of savers. It is truly regrettable that in this climate of responsibility those who declare themselves daily close to savers wanted to parade, even criticizing the future measures, of which we know nothing for obvious reasons of plural possibilities of intervention, but already claiming that it would take much more. In these cases we have come to the "preventive goodness" and regret to see it flagging from political traditions that would even like to vomit to the government of the country. We are in a very delicate phase, in which it is easy to contrast fear and anger with trust and common sense. Does anyone want to see the savers on their knees and then offer them the square? Why is it easier to offer the square to those who are ill and who are on their knees? The country doesn't need fear. There is no need for the continued delegitimization of its public and private institutions. The country now needs common sense, solidarity and unity of political forces and of Parliament. As in this case, common sense will never agree with the common sense: the constant work of support and modernization of the banking sector (which, I repeat, has not done and will not do discounts to bankers) is aimed at a strengthening that serves to protect savers. It has strengthened confidence in our system. Let us not deceive those who believe that they will also benefit from this measure, that they will see savers on their knees and then turn them towards the streets, because trust with our measures has been strengthened. There is so much speculation, there is already fantasy work on future measures (which, let us remember, are not there); or on the contrary, it is stated that intervention is necessary, but, as always, it would take a lot more. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the facts, things are very clear: in this way people are told - first of all to the citizens - that the State is at their side and will not stand by. Because that is what this morning's choice is all about. It is a question of whether the state, Parliament, stands side by side with the citizens and savers or whether it is looking at what will happen. The sense of responsibility, which in the difficulties requires us to examine the possible and concrete actions and their consequences, today asks us to beat a blow and to be present. And we, Parliament, saying yes this morning, respond to this call and say very clearly to the citizens: we are there. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u26	The debate is closed. I note that the following motions for resolutions have been tabled: No 1 by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller, and No 2 by Senator Montevecchi and other Senators. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u27	Mr President, on the basis of the very interesting speeches that have taken place this morning, I would like briefly to make three specific comments. It is important that, beyond the criticism of the timing of such a measure, there has been a majority of interventions that have been expressed in favour of the need for the intervention that the Government is going to launch and for which permission is required to increase public balances and debt; therefore, not only on the need, the opportunity and the convenience of the intervention that is being proposed today. The second point is that the purpose of this intervention seems important to me. I would at least like to stress, for those who have spoken in the opposite direction, that this intervention is not aimed at saving the Italian banking system: it is not about saving any system; the Italian banking system is solid and runs no risk of systemic crisis. This has not simply been reiterated, but it emerges from the numerous analyses and tests that have been carried out over the last two years. In fact, this intervention is directed towards certain specific cases, well-identified by crises, which can and must be addressed, as the European rules themselves provide, by means of market instruments or, if necessary, by means of public intervention. I think it is important to reiterate this aim. Moreover, this intervention has been recognized as necessary by many of the speakers. The third point that I think is important to stress is that this measure is of a precautionary nature, because it is designed in the event that the market does not make it possible to make the necessary resources available. So this measure wants to make the resources available so that the government can use them to finance measures that prefigure a sort of safety net, a public parachute. Of course, in order to avoid the worst, as has been said, that is, according to European rules to prevent the resolution of individual banks; in these cases we would have enormous costs not only for users and businesses, but above all for savers. So this precautionary network or intervention function is aimed at avoiding an alternative which, as I think everyone has said, must be avoided. To conclude, I believe that overcoming the state of crisis of some companies (which takes place, it must be reiterated, with interventions that are within European norms, because it is an absolute necessity, otherwise we would not have those degrees of freedom that we call for today in some way; standards that, of course, in some respects can be and are criticized, but that must still be applied) could benefit not only the whole of the country's productive activities, but also savers themselves and, above all, aimed at saving, guaranteeing and protecting small, medium and large savers (especially small ones). I believe that this last point must be reiterated and emphasized strongly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u28	I ask the Minister for relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro, to express his opinion on the motions for resolutions submitted to the report prepared pursuant to Article 6 (6) of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u29	Mr President, let me thank the Members who have spoken in the debate, who, among other things, have some ideas which are not useful for today's decision, but which are absolutely useful in framing the issue and in supporting the possible subsequent discussion and debate on the instruments that may be adopted by the Government with the use of the overtaking that is authorised today. I am in favour of the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and others. On the other hand, I am opposed to the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u30	We shall then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u33	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I find it a bit difficult to deal with such an important and important subject with a half-desert House, almost as if 20 billion euros of commitment on the Italian taxpayer's shoulders are little. I also believe - I don't want Senator Finocchiaro - that it would have been very nice as a first message to the Senate the presence of the competent Minister in the Chamber. Mr Finocchiaro, Minister for Relations with Parliament. He's in the House. IN MAY (CoR). I say this because, in fact, what you are asking us today is something indefinite and the opposition does not say so, says the President of the Council himself in his report where it reads: "in relation to the uncertainty about the modalities, the timing and the financial extent of the actions to be taken, the updating of the public finance policy framework and its return plan can be detailed with the next programming documents, taking into account the measures that can actually be taken." That is to say, here, basically, you are asking us for an act of confidence and you are asking us, even more, to forget these two and a half years, as if nothing had happened in these two and a half years and as if, in this period of time, the serious and responsible opposition of this Parliament had not already made a whole series of notes on how the state budget could best be used. I am reminded of Senator Monti's authoritative speech, no later than a week ago, when he resumed the President of the Council on all the reckless acts in relation to the use of the country's finance, but this opposition had said no to operations Atlas 1 and 2 and this opposition does not forget the sentences of the President of the Council, when he said that investing on the Mount of Paschi was a business. And then the whole crowning strategy, everything about the state budget had to be dealt with outside the context of the referendary battle that we had and that engaged our country for a year. Having said that, and having heard Einaudi quoted from one side to which he ideally does not belong, we cannot fail to agree with the call made to us with regard to the need to protect savers, but we cannot mention the institutions of some liberal ideals only when we have to make a commercial once again. We have had the protection of savers well impressed but, precisely because we have impressed on us how to work to safeguard the interests of Italian savers, we had done and have done in these two and a half years a whole series of notes to which always and inevitably no has been answered. If Martin Luther King had been here today, we could have said that we are not afraid of the ignorance of the incompetent, we are afraid of the silence of the competent. This morning we would have told the Minister of Economy, if he had been present, that he could not help but know what was going on in the state budget and he could not help knowing also why the parliamentary offices of the House and Senate, in these years, have always given a demonstration of how the accounts were absolutely not online. Today we will absolutely not agree to vote on this measure, challenging you, however, because we know perfectly well that this debate will return to this House with the decree and then to that date and at that time we will be well here to protect the interests of savers, we will make our amending proposals and we will see if this Government has finally decided to change course with respect to the previous government from which it inherited this brick that today, in a way that I would call almost ignominious, you are trying to make the Italian people digest. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senators Candiani and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u36	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all, we must point out that it is with some embarrassment that we are dealing with this debate, in the face of a small (three-faced) report presented by the Government on a subject that is of great importance: with a very extraordinary action, the Government is asking to allocate 20 billion in debt, against the rules that have been incorporated into the Constitution. And this proposal is made with these small pages, with an embarrassing report yesterday by Minister Padoan at the meeting held in the Chamber of Deputies of the Joint Budget Commissions. The Minister merely summarized these three pages and said nothing more than the government's strategy and intention. Even more embarrassing is that, at the first important act of this Government (of this Renzi- bis or Gentiloni, however you want to call it), we have to face the discussion in a desert Chamber, especially in the Democratic Party benches that should be here to defend this measure, against a debt of 20 billion. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This report has been called'saving intervention', which is a bit of a pair with many measures taken by Renzi (and here we see continuity):'saving savings', while in the past they were called'saving banks'. In fact, as has been evident to all, these are "suffering savers" interventions. There was talk of good school, of the most beautiful constitutional reform in the world. Behind the words, you have always hidden tricks and even this provision represents a rip-off. You have said that this is a precautionary measure: we will see whether it will be necessary to implement it. But why all this hypocrisy? It is now clear to everyone that the attempt to increase MPS' capital from private resources has failed and it is clear to everyone that this need will come about. The use of the 20 billion will have a significant impact on public debt, especially on the 2017 budget. And after the more than 100 billion increase in debt in the thousand days of the Renzi Government, now the Gentiloni-Renzi Government continues with a demand for debt of 20 billion, after a single week from its establishment. I don't think this is the best way to start. It is only the last of a series of completely bankrupt measures both to protect the banking system and, above all, to protect the savings of Italians. We would like to mention them briefly. Let us remember the reform of the popular banks, challenged by the Council of State, pending the decision of the Constitutional Court on its legitimacy; the reform of the cooperative credit, which is still on the high seas; the bail in approved lightly, except then realize the serious consequences, ratified as always supine and then criticized with a certain fear and a certain embarrassment, as the Renzi Government has always done. Beat the fists! You have accepted from Europe unsustainable parameters for the Italian banking system, proudly saying that our system was the most solid of all and we are seeing in these months and years how solid it was. Let us also remember what we do not count at European level: we are still waiting for authorisation to use this debt of 20 billion against a Germany which, years ago, invested 260 billion to save its banks. Now the Italian Government is eagerly waiting for the green light, not from Brussels, but from Berlin: this is the raw truth of this Europe that you have built. Beautiful Europe, congratulations! You have used 60 billion public money to save the German and French banks that were exposed with Greece and now you have to beg in Brussels and Berlin the authorisation to allocate 20 billion euros to the Italian banks: a real shame! Then there are failures and responsibilities to savers, which may be even more serious. The decree saves banks of a year ago has brought many families and savers to their knees: slow, partial reimbursements and marked by continuous protests because you have not even managed to protect all savers, but only a part. The future of the famous four banks is still in the balance, marked by serious uncertainties. The Atlas Fund - 1 and 2 - has been implemented with a devious system, so, against bank investments, some banks have resorted to accountants with one-off withdrawals or increased commissions. Now you continue these successes with the operation on Monte dei Paschi, which risks to foresee other very serious measures against Italian savers: the zeroing of the savings of shareholders, the forced conversion of subordinated bonds, which will affect 40,000 savers, and the increase of the public debt for 20 billion euros without any guarantee that this operation will lead to the rescue of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. There is certainly inability, but there are also serious responsibilities of your governments over the past five years. In particular, the responsibilities are linked to the fact that more than a year ago an authoritative representative of the Democratic Party, Senator Marcucci, announced that, against that famous decree saves banks, a commission of inquiry on the banking system would be set up immediately: we have been waiting for this Commission to be launched for a year! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I am a member of the Committee on Finance and I can say that it has been deliberately carried out a very slow, slow process and made up of a thousand unnecessary hearings to prevent the launch of this Commission. In the immediate emotion of that decree-law and the damage that was caused to savers, the Commission was announced and then took advantage of the fact that the time that passed, that the media's attention was falling and done the worst thing: to cover up a commission of inquiry that was absolutely necessary. We are tired of the melina carried out by the Democratic Party, with absolutely unacceptable interventions by representatives of the previous Government, such as Deputy Minister Zanetti, who managed to say that the Commission of Inquiry had to be launched immediately and that there was an irresponsibility of the oppositions that did not accelerate its process. Pure madness: a government that had the opportunity to indicate to its majority an emergency procedure to launch this Commission comes to blame for the oppositions of slowness! The Commission of Inquiry should already have finished its work and has not even started it, because it has not even been launched. And while pagan citizens and savers suffer, abandoned in total indifference to their desperation, those responsible for those events are still at large, are not responding in any way to their own behavior and receive millionaire rewards and goodwill. We wonder, after a year, what you have to hide. What do you have to hide? Why does the Democratic Party prevent the launch of this Commission of Inquiry? Are there political responsibilities to hide? We know that there is an interference of the political world in the banking world and in the case of the Monte dei Paschi it is enormous: in the system of nominations the role of PD has always been decisive, it is evident to everyone, even the reckless know it. What's the lesson, after all? They always pay the usual: the defenceless and unprotected citizens. We see it with the four banks, with the Popular Bank of Vicenza and the Veneto Bank. I'll come to the conclusion. The report is devoid of content, it is a blank delegation. But to do what? We're not allowed to know, you didn't explain. What guarantees will you ask the bank to protect shareholders, bondholders, accountants, against these 20 billion? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Which banks will use it? How will the 20 billion be used? Why 20? Is this just the beginning? What's your strategy, assuming you have one? You didn't explain it to us. We were well disposed to this report, we felt the responsibility to promote this path that was absolutely necessary for your inability over the last five years. But it is now clear that you are sailing on sight, dangerously and irresponsiblely. We cannot and do not want to become your accomplices in this sad affair. We will evaluate the texts of the next decree-laws, but today we cannot vote in favour of an empty report. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We cannot make an act of faith: this Government does not deserve it. The North League votes against the Renzi-Gentiloni government report. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u39	TREMONTI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, Senators, I shall vote in favour. I haven't done this in many years, but here today I will do it to avoid the bankruptcy of the oldest bank in the world. But I would add that it is a vote to save it also from the action of a government that has been beyond measure cynical and continues to be clumsy. It's said that Google doesn't forgive, and it's actually like this: Adnkronos, 3 October 2016, at 20.58: Padoan: "No urgency on banks." MPS operation will be a success.Tgcom24, a few days later: "MPS, Padoan: "No hypothesis of public support." Letter from Padoan to the "Corriere della Sera" of 3 October: On MPS prudent line respecting the market. The Government in its role as facilitator. The question I ask, Minister, is whether these are repeated and serial cases of homonymousness or whether it is Padoan himself who now asks us to vote on the text we are debating. It is a text, just read it, which seems written by Mickey Mouse. It says less than what the newspapers write, but it doesn't say the essentials. He says it takes at least 20 billion, but there is no moral and political correctness to tell us what has happened in the meantime. You see, I believe that the situation is even more serious than it seems, even in formal terms. But they are not legal points, they are potentially tragic points, given the foreseeable development of the conflicts of jurisprudence and jurisdiction that will exist. You see, the second paragraph of Article 81 of the Constitution provides: The use of debt is allowed only in order to consider the effects of the economic cycle... when exceptional events occur. The key words are: "only", "economic cycle," "checking events." Article 6, paragraph 6, of Law No 243 of 2012, quoted in the epigraph on the text you have presented to us, has a broader content and probably does not conform to the constitutional provisions. Let's read it: there is talk of severe economic recession and extraordinary events outside the control of the state. On the serious economic recession, I think it's rather picturesque that until a few days ago you told us that we were with the positive sign. But the most important point - I repeat: constitutionally more important - is what concerns extraordinary events outside the control of the State. But do you realize what you're telling us? On the one hand you say that the system is basically healthy and on the other hand you tell us that there is a part outside the control of the state. This is crazy. Are you under control or out of control? Are we in the presence of a systemic imbalance or is it a critical part of the system? Don't tell us that. Besides, is this an imbalance already in place or only in power? This is not a marginal but a fundamental point. Among other things, there is nothing else in the report requested, except in absolutely general terms: there is no indication of the measure, the duration, the purpose, the return plans, the objectives and the interventions. Therefore, we should authorise an announcement here, but this is outside the criteria of the Constitution. However, we have also been told, I must say with great emphasis and cult, that there is a difference between debt and debt. Let me point out that it is the sum that makes the total and it is the total that ultimately makes the rating, demonstrating the inability of the system to manage relatively ordinary facts, even if the salvation of the bank is important. In the Assembly Report of 9 June 2016 we find written the invitation, then addressed to the Government, to worry not to ask for confidence in that decree-law and in this Assembly, but to ask for it on the next decree (and more or less we are) and in any case it is a confidence that must be asked not only in this Assembly, but in the country, in the face of a reality dominated by an increasing number of dramatic phenomena. We did not vote for the bail in from these benches. We stressed the lack of clarity and the necessary capacity to deal with all of this. There had already been stress tests and, even if they have come after - then it depends on what conditions were done and challenged - the Minister, in October, however, should not have said the opposite of what he is now forced to ask us. Well, we said in that Chamber that, given the dramatic nature of the problems, it was perhaps the case, firm political positions, to start a joint debate, in the national interest, considering that the issue at stake concerns families and savings. It was not a question of overcoming the formation and the majority of government, but - I repeat - it was asked to take account of the indications that would come and could still come from this House. Judging from what you told us yesterday, in the Mappamondo room in the House of Deputies, this commitment is absent and this is very serious. In any case, I would like to point out, in conclusion, that there is no European directive that imposes on us or allows us to disapply our Constitution and in Article 47 of the Constitution - in the text that we all still know and recognize - it says that "The Republic (...) protects savings". [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL), FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u42	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, representative of the Government, the report prepared pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012 is a due act, but also a kind of blank bill of exchange. The planned allocation, up to 20 billion euros, is in fact only a general forecast: the actual figures of the increase in debt resulting from the issuance of more securities, as a result of the increased financial indebtedness, will depend on the subsequent measures that the Government will have to take, depending on the evolution of a situation that does not appear predetermined a priori. Much will depend, in fact, if the plan of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, addressed to the market, will succeed and if there will be investors, both foreign and Italian, willing to risk their resources to recapitalize a bank for too many years dragged into the Italian political events and their respective games of power. We are pessimistic, however, because at the moment investors need to see a strong, stable and capable government (as President Mattarella told us yesterday and repeated several times) also in numbers, which cannot be random but structural, especially at a time when oppositions appear very divided. We have just heard the interventions of the Northern League, which differ from those of Forza Italia, and the latter differ, in turn, from those of the 5 Stars: the people of No is fragmented. There is no mention in the report of these distant episodes. They, as is well known, have intertwined the history of the relative majority party in its transformations (from the Communist Party to the PDS to the DS) to Siena, always and only governed by a political force; to the Bank of Salento, then Banca 121, which was the first in Italy to be controlled by natural persons and which saw the managing director become the director of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, during the period in which the Council of Ministers was presided by Mr D'Alema. These episodes date back to a time even before the famous act of address, unusual fact in the relationship between the vigilante and the banking foundations, issued by the then Treasury Minister Vincenzo Visco, who opened the way to the presidency of Giuseppe Mussari, one of the main leaders of the subsequent financial disaster. On the other hand, the failures of the stress tests carried out by the ECB, according to the rules of the new European supervision, are underlined. MPS is the only Italian bank that has had a negative response, so it is necessary a capital increase that consolidates its assets, taking into account, among other things, the particularly high volume of its sufferings (between inexpensive credits granted to friends, or rather to companions, friends of friends, reckless and so on) that, with a more modern language, are now called non performing loans, which means failure. This is a Britishism that we would have liked to have done without, especially because this is the only tangible result of the much praised banking union that, as is well known, should have involved a lot of other investments, such as deposit insurance: a guarantee for savers. Interventions at the moment archived, thanks to the precedence of the prejudices of our German friends. But to what extent are they friends? A nice race, then, with the French friends, I'll tell you about later. Of course, an intervention of 20 billion is not just about the Sienese bank. There are other credit institutions in distress: the two Venetian banks, the four local banks (Banca Marche, Banca Etruria, CariChieti, CariFerrara), then the traversies of the People of Bari. A picture, as we can see, complex and worrying, for the possible systemic consequences that their crisis could lead to. While, in the background, it cannot be forgotten what is happening in the high branches of Italian capitalism (and I am not referring only to the events that contrast Vivendi to Mediaset). Unicredit, the second Italian bank, must recapitalize itself for about 13 billion, and many believe that this request will mark its passage in the hands of the French who, according to the rumors of the market, would point even higher: to the conquest of Mediobanca and therefore of the Generali, the lady of Italian capitalism (I think of a song by Loredana Bertè: "I am not a lady"). We will see in the next few days whether these are only hypotheses and indiscretions or whether they represent the concrete manifestation of those raids, Minister, which the President of the Council, Mr Gentiloni, excluded in his speech of settlement, but which are actually taking shape and of which we must take note. It is therefore necessary, from now on, to give a strong response from the Italian side, with a strong Government, and to show that one does not remain impassive in the face of aims of conquest, especially if, as happened in the case of Vivendi, the relative strategies do not seem to be respectful of the rules of market. It is not a question of being in favour or against a pure liberalism, but of preventing Italy from becoming an immense Disneyland, repeating the mistakes that in the past years led to the disappearance of the great industrial realities then in public hands. As you can see, the situation is far from peaceful. On the contrary, the risks are significant and it is therefore necessary to react. For these reasons, our vote on the proposals put forward by the Government will follow. Beyond politics, national interests count and if these are in any way threatened the response to the government's action can only be responsible. How? Will we value the bills I mentioned earlier? We give a conditional confidence to this Government, we give a conditional yes and a judgment, so to speak, suspended, ready to be revised when the credit lines are really activated in favour of the individual transactions. It will then be that the evaluation will become timely and its outcome far from obvious.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u45	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mrs. Minister, the change to the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document that the Government requires with the vote of the Chambers is certainly motivated by urgent profiles of responsibility and extraordinaryness. The adoption of measures to protect the banking system and to guarantee savings is motivated by the evidence of criticalness of the credit system that requires system measures that ensure adequate levels of liquidity, the restoration of financing capacity and the definition of the necessary measures to strengthen the banking system's assets supported by recapitalisation measures. These are the main points set out in the report which the Government has sent to Parliament and which the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Padoan, reiterated both yesterday and this morning in the Joint Budget Committees. The fundamental principle, in line with these objectives and methods of intervention, is that the possibility of granting the State guarantee in respect of the liabilities of Italian credit institutions is provided for and recognised. This is a step which corresponds to the government's need for political decisions towards the European Union and the financial markets and which, in our opinion, is indispensable for the full protection of savers. On the contrary, in hindsight, even with respect to other situations that have occurred in the past measures such as this could perhaps have taken place. This is the result of an assumption of responsibility which the various political forces have appealed to, not just by a majority. We expect, therefore, a vote that follows, since the measure is not a request for membership of a majority political pact, but an indispensable intervention in the face of the renewed banking emergencies. The financing of these measures, up to a total amount of up to EUR 20 billion for 2017, as has been said, to be found through the issuance of public debt securities, has the objective to address the crucial crisis point of our banking system which is, as is now evident, the extent of the deteriorated loans and their structural impact on the balance sheets of credit institutions. There is no doubt that there are responsibilities for the management of banks that we do not intend to evade or minimize. In the first place, Italian savers paid the price, whose audience goes far beyond shareholders and subordinated bondholders. It is essential, however, and even more so, to make a conscious assessment of the now abnormal size of non-performing loans, which are currently downgraded from 199 billion gross to 85 billion net in the budgets of our institutions. We are faced with a condition of structural suffering, which would be even more aggravated by a further devaluation of outstanding loans. Do we want to address the problem by defining these interventions as equivalent to a parachute of state? It's not like that. And so it was not, not by chance, understood by the European Union in the negotiations. Nor is it conceived by the European Central Bank, if we objectively observe the capital requirements required. The effects, or we could say the positive objectives related to public support and which justify this note of change and further indebtedness, are different and interweave each other: to support the search for private resources whose outcomes depend on the response of the markets and, alternatively, to intervene safeguarding security; to free, at least in part, sound banks from the mutual costs imposed by the institutions in crisis; to avoid the formation of further losses, which would result in a greater and systemic subtraction of resources, even greater, for the capital increases that would still be indispensable. We cannot replace the markets today, for example in the response they will have to give to the private intervention required by some banks to cover the increase in capital, but we can and must take political and government decisions that, if absent, would pave the way for an unsustainable system crisis. In the system crises they always pay the weakest: savers, businesses, who see and even more would see the opportunities, already reduced and complex, of access to credit, of real growth and equity. Of all the responsibilities imposed on politics, we do not intend to assume the latter and for these reasons on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies - Italian Socialist Party announces the vote in favour of resolution 1. [[Applause from Senators Buemi and Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u48	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the Government, in its report submitted pursuant to Article 6, calling for authorization to issue public debt securities of up to 20 billion, actually asks Parliament (and indeed the Italians) for 20 billion for the rescue of the banking system. Someone mentioned a blank bill and we could almost define it as a request to subscribe to a subordinated bond. In fact, the report - and this is what is absolutely critical of us - does not understand in any way what the necessary measures are to be put in place for the protection of savers. There is extreme vagueness or even the absence of indications regarding the measures that are to be taken and therefore it is clear to everyone that this operation is a mere and simple rescue, not of savings or savers, but of the banking system. Nor are they investigated, as even yesterday happened in the hearing of Minister Padoan before the Joint Committees of the House and Senate, the crisis of the national banking and financial system and the crisis of some banking institutions, which seemed almost the result of a accident, nor are they clearly indicated the causes that have led to this situation, from the incorrect management of investment and credit policies to the bad management of the administrative bodies, to the lack of supervisory activity, which represents another element. For this reason, Mr President, we had renewed (even yesterday, at the Conference of the Leaders) the request to be able to launch a Commission of Inquiry at once. I believe that Parliament, all the more so in view of the request for a rescue and a blank bill of exchange, must, in the dark, activate the instruments in its possession, such as that of the Commission of Inquiry, in order to investigate, fully understand and ascertain the responsibilities of the present situation. What is more, we want to make it very clear that we are now asking for the authorization of 20 billion for the rescue of the banks, but these sums were not there for the earthquake, for the work, for urgent interventions for poverty. Moreover, we had asked, even in a very articulate and clear way, to present a plan during the discussion of the budget law (actually we did so last year), to allocate a point of GDP, even to deficits, equal to 17 billion to start an investment plan that began to outline a path of escape from the crisis to give answers to a country where the employment problem is increasingly serious. This obviously did not happen. Moreover, in recent times huge errors have been made even of failure to intervene that have led to a situation for which the third bank of the country is now close to almost irremediable conditions. Among other things, recently and also to the new Government, as the Italian Left, we had asked for a public intervention that we thought necessary long ago; in fact, if we had intervened then would have avoided the deterioration of the asset situation, prevented the title of MPS assuming characteristics of speculative asset, we would have mitigated the escape of accountants and depositors. We did not want to do that when it was necessary and we will have to do so now that it is inevitable. However, the contours of this intervention, which should be aimed primarily at safeguarding savings, work and credit, are not very clear. We try to indicate what - in our opinion - should be the roads on which to intervene. As far as the main road is concerned, it is the nationalization to be achieved through the acquisition by the State of subordinated bonds held by non-financial entities, which can be realized precisely at the purchase price and serving the coupons already received, which should then follow the conversion into shares of the bonds themselves. It would therefore be necessary to suspend the stock exchange quotations of the securities indefinitely and to proceed to the immediate appointment of new directors, with the putting into effect of actions of responsibility towards the past summits. I would also repeat that it is increasingly urgent to activate a specific parliamentary committee of inquiry on MPS and, more generally, on the situation of the banking system. In fact, today we know perfectly well, even if we are not talking about it in this House, that our problems concern not only MPS, but perhaps also some other banking institutions. Therefore, it could have been avoided that corporate leadership imposed vaguely by international finance could cause further damage to the bank and especially to savers. A series of indications that we had given, also asking for an immediate intervention some time ago, have not been put in place and today we come to ask for a vote in the dark, an authorization in the dark, because we have not found - I stress this again - any clarity in the report on the lines of intervention that are being adopted. For us, the key issue is the protection of savers and jobs. We think it is absolutely necessary to intervene in another way. The main route for institutions in crisis is nationalisation, agreeing with the European institutions in open dialectic but also assuming the risk of an infringement procedure. Precisely because we have been very clear before on what was necessary to do, while it is absolutely opaque what the Government intends to do, let's say that it is absolutely inadmissible the request in the dark of 20 billion for the rescue not of savers, but only of the banking system. We don't sign blank bills. For this reason the vote of the Senators of the Italian Left will be against. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u51	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are here to vote in absolute urgency because then you have to run home and discard the Christmas packages, while today the only package we find in this House is the request for delegation in blank. MIRABELLI (PD). But where are the others in your group? Montevecchi (M5S). If we have arrived here it is thanks to the thousand days of the Renzi Government, which have been resoundingly bankrupt with regard to the management of Monte Paschi di Siena because the Renzi Government and, today, the "Renziloni" Government have not wanted and continue not to listen to the organic proposals made by the 5 Star Movement, which had been asking for the nationalization of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena and part of the credit system by resetting the management responsible for the disasters of recent years and separating the business banks from those of ordinary credit. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Instead, today you are asking for a blank trust for another 20 billion in debt. The problem is not the 20 billion debt, but the fact that this is yet another patch without a medium and long-term plan. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You don't tell us how, who and when. It's as if a runaway friend, who over the years has proved that he can't handle the money, asks you for a million euros to save the world. I challenge any of you to lend a runaway friend a million euros to save the world without knowing how and when. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You wouldn't do that. We are here after MPS has burned 14 billion public money in the last five years and the political leaders of this disaster sit among those benches. Let's remember that. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The political leader of this disaster is the Democratic Party. Let's do a little history because, as Mr Tremonti mentioned earlier, the Network does not forget. You no longer need to go to dusty hemeoteche or archives to find the statements; just clicks. On 25 July, Minister Padoan, after the stress tests, said: "There is no risk, the Italian banking system is solid (...) there are few critical cases that have been circumscribed and resolved by a market process". On 3 September the Minister added: "There is no plan B" on MPS, because the current plan would work. On 9 September, he reassured that the situation was under control. On 12 October, at the question time in the Chamber of Deputies, Padoan said that no public support measures were planned for MPS. And at Sky TG24 on 25 November, he reassured the Italians that the outcome of the referendum would not directly affect the revival of society. That's not true. He said it cynically. In fact we know that, since on December 4 the Italian people went to the polls and voted no, your friends of the JP Morgan, they told you "Bye-bye: don't see camel, don't see money." [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And they've gone, your JP Morgan friends! Today, therefore, you expect us to do all the opposite of what you said, cynically. And still here the responsibility is yours. The responsibility lies with a government that held Parliament hostage, which did not want to make the change in the Update Note, passed to the Senate a law of stability with confidence and, also there, removed the possibility of intervening. And today you are offering us a request to allow you to spend up to 20 billion again without knowing how. Shame on you! For all these reasons, for the reasons of merit that have been widely and clearly explained by my colleagues and why, above all, this Government continues not to have a vision but continues to put clumsy patches on the shoulders of the citizens, the 5 Star Movement will vote against this authorization. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We know that, in order to protect savings and savers, since, even with this authorization, not all savers will be protected, we could have done something else, in other times, without reaching this pre-Christmas situation. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments by Senators Caleo and Mirabelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u54	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure has a first characteristic: it is too late. And there is certainly some significance because, of course, during the period when the situation on the financial market and, in particular, the banks in Italy has suffered a further deterioration. Despite this situation, we will stick to a very strong sense of responsibility and avoid any controversy, which would be absolutely justified by a force like ours. We do this because it is at stake at this moment the protection of savings and, therefore, hundreds of thousands of Italians and hardworking Italians. And there is also the sap of a market system, which is the banking system. A great force, at a time like this, puts aside the controversy and uses its strength to achieve those objectives that I said before: the protection of savings, a calming of the lymphatic system, of the market system in Italy. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this measure, the nature of which, however, I think it is necessary to remember. This is a public finance measure by which Parliament authorizes the Government to go beyond the financial ceilings established by the budget law. Therefore, it is not yet the measure of protection of the banking system on which, as I will say better in a moment, we will exercise our right of supervision, of criticism and, if necessary, of contribution. I say this because this is a measure of public finance and, therefore, it follows, with the responsibility that Parliament takes today and that we assume with our vote, some precise commitments of the Government. The law that implements this provision must have strictly in this case the financial cover that is imposed on it. I would like to remind you that today we are going through certain objectives by means of a law and, therefore, they only need to be amended by another law. And for the change of those objectives there are the conditions and terms that must be respected. The first of which - I say it now - is the following and we will be careful about it: the judgment n. 37 of 1961, of the Constitutional Court, which determined with precision (and since then all the accounting jurisprudence has been in conformity), what are the criteria of coverage to be met by the Government in cases where it lends the guarantee or in cases where, like this, even increases the capital. Even in the case of a single guarantee, a method of coverage is provided, indicated exactly in that judgment and in all subsequent ones, which must be respected. So we will ensure that the use of this money is adequate and in accordance with the principles of public finance. As we will be careful, as mentioned in Senator Mandelli's speech, about the return plan that the Government mentions and on which we - I repeat - must be careful. We know perfectly well the rate of uncertainty that exists on these matters, but we also know how that rate of uncertainty can and will have to be treated Prudently. This is a fundamental point to which we intend to give particular importance in this - I repeat - is a prodromic public finance measure to the decree that we will assess in its concrete course. 11:38 a.m. (Following Mr Azzollini). Therefore, attention should be paid to the cover-ups and the return plan which is still too indefinite in the report we are approving today, but which we believe can be well defined later on. However, it must be done in the next locations. This, Mr President, Senators and Senators, Lords of the Government, is a point of confidence that we entrust and on which we intend the Government to respond, because it is a task of our strength. Our great sense of responsibility is associated with a great example of control and surveillance that an opposition force must exercise. Another thing we are related to is the following. What we authorize up to a maximum of 20 billion is a guarantee or, even, the assumption of venture capital. We therefore ask not only that this assumption be made with all the prudential criteria of when risk capital is public, as in this case, but that it be exercised with the necessary rigour that public money deserves. The majority shareholder, if the State makes this choice as a result of the decree implementing the measure today, could even assume the role of majority shareholder of one or more banks. In that case he must exercise it with all his powers and with the particular prudence and rigour that comes from the public role. Therefore, beware of any misdeeds of any kind, of any kind, by anyone who operates in the role of majority shareholder can be found: in that case, the action of the majority shareholder will have to be clear and severe. But there is more. As it is the State and public money, this experience must lead to an exercise of powers which can give thought to certain issues which must no longer be repeated. For example, it will be helpful to see how it is possible for some credit institutions to have a lot of suffering that has become so great. If there were ever, in addition to the abuses that we have said, to be punished, the crackdowns of the system by the directors of the banks, but also by the regulatory bodies, it will be necessary for the Government, as the risker, who assumes a responsibility, to assume the power also to request the modification of norms in European and national or the modification of the regulations that has possibly given rise to entities that can hardly accumulate without a process on which a shareholder well must supervise. In this case, in fact, it can and must prevent these issues from happening again, at least to the extent that this is possible. We know that there is also a structural component, that it was the crisis that the country experienced, and we do not subtly subtly it, but I do not think that it was just this and anyway, where it was not only this, this function must be strictly exercised. In other words, it is necessary for the Government to report to the legislative body both in the preparation of the decree and in its actual parliamentary process and in its execution, and therefore provide for a systematic and constant dialogue with Parliament in the law. Since Parliament is called upon to give this approval, it is necessary for the Government to report to it how it intends to work to ensure that its work is as rigorous and prudent as it needs to be. We therefore need this to be Parliament' s agenda. What we in a way agree on today, when we vote on this measure, is a conditional confidence, in the sense that we want these obligations to be properly and strictly observed by the Government in relation to Parliament. We consider this to be of absolute importance and we believe that when a government risks and must assume - I repeat - not only at national level, but also at European Union level, a role of participation in the modification of certain rules which may have led to this situation. To give just one example, Mr President, you should tell everyone - I said so this morning and Minister Padoan showed a particular politeness and kindness in replying - that you should put an end to that legislation, of whatever degree it may be, that it requires the sale of any item, in this case of a bank, to a fixed term, because it is well known that at that fixed term the price does so by the buyer and never the seller and this harms the savers. I have limited myself to this, but we could extend ourselves with examples, not here but possibly in the process of the decree. That is why we will be voting in favour of this public finance measure, but - as we have said - we will be particularly strict and vigilant in monitoring and verifying that the follow-up to this measure, both by law and by administration, and their actual course of action, are particularly monitored by Parliament, which will have to obtain guarantees from the Government asking it to report constantly to Parliament on these very sensitive measures. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators D'Onghia and Pagano. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u57	TONINI (PD). Mr President, Minister, fellow Senators, the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of the motion tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller, which positively transposes the Government's request for a deviation of 20 billion from the target of returning from debt in order to support, if necessary, our credit system. Our Group will also vote in favour on the basis of the debate that has taken place in these hours, first in the seat of the Joint Budget Committees last night, then this morning in the Senate Budget Committee, and now in the Senate Chamber, a debate in which, initially with difficulty and then increasingly, the substance has made its way into form. There was a polemical form in which the discussion began and then, as merit took over, obviously consensus began to widen around the Government's proposal, a proposal based on the principle of responsibility. I would like to say that the consensus that has been gathered around the Government's proposal recognizes that this is a necessary act; someone says late, but it is absolutely necessary. I want to say this with respect to colleagues who have maintained a critical attitude and who will vote against the Government's proposal, although they do not know, whether they want or can indicate a credible and viable alternative. Therefore, we have before us a passage in some ways obliged or necessary, as has been explained, with arguments as always calm, serious and solid, by the rapporteur, my colleague Guerrieri Paleotti: a passage in the name of the principle of responsibility that should be the fundamental figure of this phase of the legislature and certainly is the figure that the Gentiloni government wanted to impress on its work at the service of the country at this very stage so delicate. It is precisely the word responsibility that is the first key word of this decision that we are taking, a responsibility to which the Government, Parliament and politics feel that they cannot abdicate to our economic system and, in particular, to the savings that are rightly and solidly protected by Article 47 of our Constitution. The second key word of this decision is "subsidiarity," an ancient word that, at the same time, is very modern: this means that these 20 billion are not a blank bill, as has been said, with unnecessary controversy in my opinion, on the part of some colleagues, but they are a guarantee of last resort that, precisely because of the fact of being put in place, should allow a solution that is easier first and hopefully with the market instruments. I would like to turn to Senator Tremonti who first reminded in a somewhat malicious way (perhaps excessively malicious for those who know what it means to cover the responsibilities of that Ministry so difficult) that Minister Padoan has adhered to a prudent line respecting the market: this said months ago and this is exactly the philosophy of the passage in which we find ourselves. It is a prudent line in respect of the market, because nothing is stronger than the Government's intention and the majority... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u58	Senator Tonini, wait a minute: you can't continue the discussion with this background chatter. Please also allow stenotypists to do their job, because they cannot hear what Senator Tonini says.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I was saying that this line is prudent and goes with respect for the market, because there is no stronger hope on the part of the Government that this appropriation should not be used, but that simply because of being put in the field can produce those interventions in the market that make possible a solution at zero cost by public finance; if instead there should be, for this or that institution, for this or that outbreak of crisis of our credit system, a positive intervention, the hope is that this can be operated according to the criteria of the market and therefore produce even a gain for public finance. This is the objective in which we move: an objective - and I would like to say again to Senator Tremonti - which seems to me to be fully in line with our Constitution, not only with the European directives. Indeed, Senator Tremonti himself rightly recalled that Article 81 of the Constitution and, even more so, Law 243 of 2012, should be read in systematic relation to Article 47 of the Constitution. And so, when an outbreak of crisis occurs, it is clear that the government must have all the tools to deal with it, just to prevent the crisis from becoming, then, something uncontrollable and, at that point, irreversible. We are putting this instrument on the table. This is nothing more than an operation of absolute transparency. That is the third key word, with which I conclude: transparency. It has rightly been asked by colleagues - who, by overcoming their opposition position, will vote in favour of the Government's proposal - that the continuation of this work, if any positive decrees or legislative interventions by the Government, to be presented to Parliament's attention, should be carried out with absolute transparency and, I would like to say, also in a spirit of strong sharing, of parliamentary co-responsibility, addressed to all political forces and, in particular, to Parliament as such. I think the Senate is ready to do this job. The government, for the voice of the Minister Finocchiaro, yesterday in the meeting of the two Commissions V and 5a of Chamber and Senate has already guaranteed maximum comfort on this road, the maximum openness to confrontation and co-responsibility. I therefore believe that there are all the conditions for living this passage, which is certainly delicate, but which must not be dramatized, as a positive step in parliamentary work. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u61	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u62	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, the government intervenes with an economic measure that tastes like blackmail, and I am allowed the term of moral extortion. Extortion, in law, is a crime committed by those who, with violence or threat, force one or more persons to do or not to do any act in order to profit unjustly from others' harm. Today, the government is asking us to vote for a measure based on moral blackmail, by shielding hundreds of accountants who are swindled by the rules sought mainly by Brussels, by bank executives, collused with politics, without scruples and without ethics. Today the Government, with the expedient of Article 6 of Law n. 243 of 2012, asks to intervene in order to face extraordinary events. But what are these extraordinary events? With what money? By still cutting welfare or increasing taxes? Given the impossibility of being a sovereign state, the problem is not to intervene in favour of the Italian credit system, but to do so by increasing the public debt underlying a currency that we do not control, we do not print and on which we have lost all political and economic sovereignty. Before the euro the Bank of Italy would intervene, recapitalizing without the increase of the debt for the State; unfortunately the euro prevents us from doing so. We give 20 billion euros not to heal - since next year, I am sure, we will be point and at the head - but to feed the same economic-political system that has impoverished the strength of our banks, including that of the historic Monte dei Paschi di Siena. In return we receive nothing, not even the names of those responsible for this, the names of those who have destroyed the past of savers on the one hand and the future of their children on the other. That is why I shall vote against: at this point I cannot be an accomplice to this extortion. I am voting against it because dignity is not a negotiable value. [[Applause from Senator Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u64	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u65	Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I take the floor with some embarrassment, because in reversed roles we too would have introduced a measure to save bank accountants and customers. However, I cannot accept that this should happen without a strong criticism to those who have managed the banking system and, in particular, the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. This has been done in a clientele way, favouring only one part. Just go to my region, to Tuscany, to realize how the Monte dei Paschi managed this bank. A few years ago he was somehow crucified Mussari. For God's sake, he deserved all the criticism that has been made to him, the judiciary has intervened, which will take its course (I don't care); but it has been several years and since then the Mount of the Paschi has failed to reverse this disastrous course. Yet in 2015 we were told that the banking system was fine and that everything worked well. I don't think so. This measure is essential, and I am well aware of it; but, as it has been presented, it does not allow me to vote on it. And since I am not used to voting in dissent or otherwise in a different way from the Group to which I honor to belong, I will not participate in the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u67	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u68	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, this measure has a technical significance which has a decisive impact on the interest of the nation and on the protection of accountants, which, moreover, could have been better specified. But it also has a political significance, which invests the judgment on the management of the crisis of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena in the last two years. A judgment on a management of the bankruptcy crisis, which makes the last two years appear as lost years. A judgment on the predominance of commitments made by the former President of the Council, uncritically assumed by the Minister of the Economy and communicated too lightly to the public opinion. A judgment on why some alternative solutions to those that were the central role of JP Morgan have never been taken into account. A judgment on the fact that it has never escaped the impression - which is now more than an impression - that all this has happened so that there is to be covered a past that does not pass. For all these reasons, Idea's senators will abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u70	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u71	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, without repeating the reasons already put forward by Senator Matteoli, whom I fully agree with, and to a large extent with those put forward by Senator Quagliariello, I shall not be taking part in the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u72	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions on the report to Parliament drawn up pursuant to Article 6 (6) of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012. I would remind you that this resolution requires an absolute majority of the members of the Assembly, so that the vote will take place by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators is therefore not included.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u75	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I am glad that we are all here because I intend to ask, in accordance with Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, to proceed with the statement of urgency for draft law No 624 which contains: Establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the financial failure of the Monte dei Paschi credit institution in Siena. I hope that you will participate in the vote in large numbers. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u76	Pursuant to Rule 77, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the discussion on this request will be placed on the agenda of the session of Tuesday 10 January 2017. The vote will then be taken by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u79	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would simply like to report to the House that, pursuant to Rule 79 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Group has adopted its own draft law No 2628 amending Law No 352 of 25 May 1970 on the rules on referendums provided for in the Constitution and on the legislative initiative of the people.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u80	The Presidency takes note of all the resulting regulatory effects. Before we proceed to the speeches on topics not included on the agenda, I wish you all good holidays: we will see you again on Tuesday 10 January. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u83	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw the House's attention to the so-called 'Brenta Question'. (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u84	Excuse me, Senator Endrizzi, but you can't hear anything because of the buzz. I understand the exchange of good wishes between the senators and the noisy departure of others from this House. I invite you to wait a few moments, so that your speech can also be perceived by stenotypists and by those who want to listen. Please, Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u85	Mr President, the Brenta river is a river that comes from the Trentino lakes of Levico and Caldonazzo and flows largely in Veneto. It is the object of excavation works within the structural model of the aqueducts of Veneto (MOSAV), whose aim would be to optimize water management, but it raises concerns in the population as it is carried out, especially in the municipalities of high Padua, such as Cittadella, Carmignano di Brenta, Fontaniva, Piazzola sul Brenta. These are just some of the municipalities where committees have spontaneously developed, such as the Committee "Down their hands from the Brenta," the "Carmignano Environment Group" and the "Brentana Guardiana" Committee, which have made a fundamental contribution. There are violations going on. The excavation work started on 29 March, with crawling means, despite the agreement signed by the municipalities prohibiting its use and the area of the work is subject to constraints of the European Union, able to protect its biodiversity, so from March to August no work could be carried out. On the other hand, the plans to recharge the groundwater, to be made before the actual start of the work, were left to date to be allocated. Three exhibits were presented between 2015 and 2016 by the committees, three requests for meetings in 2016, which produced only the promise to be received for the delivery of the signatures of the petition, a promise never kept. The 5 Star Movement has been activated at every level. In Veneto on March 30, 2015, the then councillor of Cittadella Loris De Poli was the first to raise the issue. The witness has passed today to Sabrina Meneghello, advisor of Piazzola sul Brenta, together with Manuel Brusco, regional councillor. Mr Brugnerotto, on 9 May of this year, put a question to Mr Galletti, who was still unanswered. MEP Marco Afffronte raised the issue at Brussels offices. I therefore want to bring back the voices and questions of the citizens here. What is the real goal that leads, compared to the wells of Camazzole, to destroy a natural habitat to build in beehive (an absolutely unsuitable area) five new unnecessary wells? On the excavation projects in Santa Croce Bigolina, why put at risk the hydraulic safety of the area by extracting a quantity of gravel from the riverbed for volumes higher than the value of the public works that the contractors will put into operation? What is the real objective of compensation works involving excavations of hundreds of billion cubic metres of gravel? What measures do you intend to take for the "Democrito" project, which has not been funded by the Veneto Region to date? It is EUR 18 million and does not implement it means compromising the recharging of aquifers. Finally, what guarantees do we have that the quarries from which excavation is carried out are not used for purposes that threaten the environment with pollution of soil and water? These are questions, Mr President, which are waiting for precise answers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u88	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, this government is able to find 20 billion to save the private banks that policy has splintered over the years. We will see what it will be able to do to safeguard 400 jobs and induced at the four Sanac companies operating in Italy. Sanac is part of the ILVA group: does this name mean anything to you? ILVA, the one for which you were able to make 10 decrees for its so-called rescue. Sanac produces refractory materials, since it is a 100 percent stake in ILVA, it makes its production for about 60 in that direction. ILVA does not pay Sanac, Sanac does not pay suppliers and becomes insolvent, although it is a healthy company. It's a police station today, of course. It's in extraordinary administration. If - as you want to do - we are going to sell these satellite companies of ILVA, we will face a fragmentation, a stew where those who buy will undoubtedly do so in the perspective of the maximum decrease and with the protection against the workers certainly worse. And as it happens, those who today come shopping in Italy take the technology know how, dismantle and, after a short time, goodbye. On December 12 there was a meeting at the MISE with the workers, the property, the commissioners. Security of supply to ILVA and protection of employment are called for. Unfortunately, nothing has been guaranteed except an ad hoc sale notice with disclosure since 31 January 2017. Today those workers I met in the Massa building last December 19 made eight hours of strike and a garrison in Tuscany Region. The 5 Star Movement has introduced in the Region a motion approved unanimously in which it is asked that the Government takes action in order to block the sale separate by 31 January and can be found a solution shared and respectful of the right to continuity and to the certainty of the job. The crisis involving the steel industry is the result of the lack of a national vision of the future of steel throughout Italy. It is always the workers and their families who put it to the end. We know that the Sanac dispute is on the table of Deputy Minister Bellanova. We filed a question for the Sanac workers. We therefore ask this Government to work quickly to give reassuring answers and to make so many concerned families spend good holidays. Let us ask the Ministers for Mr Calenda and Mr Poletti to take concrete action and, if possible, in good time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u89	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-736.ana.u90	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 10 January 2017, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.11 a.m.
