ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 9 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u10	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a duty to speak personally. Voltaire said, "Love the truth and forgive error." And just the combination of truth and error is the metaphor of a path that has seen me protagonist in the last three years. Exactly three years ago there was, in fact, news of an investigation by the Public Prosecutor of Rome about alleged frauds at the INPS in which I would be involved. Of course, the media process pronounced its sentence well before any debate or gathering of evidence. Despite the bitterness of such a scenario and the consequent media over-exposition, I decided to love the truth waiting confidently for the outcome of the investigations, making me always and in any case available to the investigators, sure of the total extraneousness from the contested facts. In this very Chamber, a few hours after the first news was released, I wanted to put my face on it, openly declaring that I should give up all forms of parliamentary immunity, making myself available, without institutional filters, and handing my dignity into the hands of the judiciary. In three years has taken shape a path of truth that ended with the filing arranged by the GIP last June 7, without therefore that a trial has ever begun; a archiving that has concluded a carousel of unfounded news, of journalistic speculations and policies that have exceeded the albeit legitimate right of news. I wanted to share with you the resolution of this matter, not merely for pleasure or for a simple completeness of information, but first of all for the respect that I bring to this Assembly and to make of my experience, which unites many of us, a testimony that is both a warning and an example at the same time; a warning to those who have the naivety to believe that the truth is the one shouted out by the headlines; an example for those who believe that truth, loved and sought, sooner or later comes, despite the uncertain and complex path. I do not want to point out - by lending my side to easy populism - the obvious flaws of a system in which the search for truth sometimes prefers to give priority to media clamour; it would be too easy to do so at this time. Mine is an invitation to reflection and rationality. Gognes hurt politics and Italy. The pointed fingers and the accusations scream down the country, and in this particular historical moment nothing seems more evident than this, today more than ever. Thanks again to those who were close to me and never doubted me. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), LN-Aut, CoR and Mixed. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u13	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to warn the Presidency of an issue - without wishing to go into this matter - which concerns relations between the institutions and the powers of the State. As you know, we have concluded a debate which has been suffered and fought on an important issue such as civil unions, and this House has come to remove stepchild adoption from the text. On this question, twenty authoritative senators (including the Vice-President Senate and a Quaestors) have addressed themselves to the General Prosecutor of the Republic asking - precisely in the perspective of a relationship of courtesy and collaboration - that this matter, in the light of the various judgments of first instance of the courts of minors, be resolved by the United Chambers of the Supreme Court to decide in a single way which interpretation to give to the current legislation. The prosecutor of the Republic, on April 8, responded with a courteous letter, in which he took care of our concerns, and assured us that on May 26, when an appeal came to the cassation on one of these cases, the prosecutor would be constituted to clarify. On 26 May the Prosecutor set up, President, and wrote that the Prosecutor-General called for the decision to be put back to the United Chambers because it is a matter of the utmost importance on which all Italy is questioning and on which philosophers and psychologists are investigating, on which Parliament is reflecting, having removed stepchild adoption from the Cirinna law. In these cases - writes the general prosecutor of the Republic - the order entrusts the decision to the united sections, the summit deputy to lay the fundamental pillars of the jurisprudence. He added, then, the proxy that only the united sections can avoid that in Italy a "leopard spot" situation is determined by decisions different from Venice to Messina; otherwise any judge of merit would give his interpretation. That's what the Attorney General wrote. Well, the first section of the Cassation on May 26 has already resolved, totally ignoring the appeal of the Public Prosecutor General. He decided on the matter - we will see how - and yesterday he decided again. I recall, President, that the first section should have been chaired by Dr Fabrizio Forte, who had the merit of seniority, who resigned from the judiciary in February. I would also like to ask the President - we will ask the CPMP - why he resigned. I wouldn't want that to be because he was Catholic. I believe that in this country a Catholic can have the titles to preside over a section of the Cassation: it is not a title of demerit. So we have had this resounding resignation. There are no precedents of who, for seniority and titles, is premeditated. The problem I raise and which we have again proposed to the first President of the Court of Cassation is as follows: does this system, even at the highest level, respect the rules? And the rules aren't those of the united sections? And why does not such an important problem go to the united sections, since Parliament has somehow asked the judiciary to clarify it? I would not like us to be faced - I say this to the President - with yet another debarking, yet another example of what Pannella called "theft of legality." It's right to stick to the rules. We will accept what the United Chambers of Cassation will say, but we will not accept shortcuts that humiliate Parliament and the people's will.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u16	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I should like to say a few words about what Mr Giovanardi has already said. It seems to me that we are faced with a situation that should affect the whole of Parliament. We raise the problem in the Senate, and I am one of the signatories of the requests that Senator Giovanardi briefly outlined. Ours is an intervention in defence of the law, Mr President, in order to prevent such a controversial and debated measure, but ultimately approved by Parliament, in a wording which Parliament has deemed to be in accordance with its own will, from finding different or even opposing applications from one geographical point to another in Italy. It is clear that this would be a completely unacceptable situation. I want to turn to those who have wanted and defended this law, and others have legitimately opposed it, and I too am among them. When the measure has become the law of the State, I believe it is the interest of all, of the institutions first and of the Parliament of the Republic first, to ensure that it is respected in its entirety and there can be no imaginative or even opposing judgments. Therefore, Mr President, we would be very grateful if the presidency of the Senate were to take an interest in this case and inform the House accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u19	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will be more than synthetic. I intervene to associate myself with what Senators Giovanardi and Formigoni have said. I think it is in the interests of the whole of Parliament to know whether the laws are made by Parliament itself or whether others are making them. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u20	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00539, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators, 1-00579, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators, 1-00580 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00582, presented by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, 1-00586, presented by Senator Tomaselli and other senators, and 1-00595, presented by Senator Barani and other senators, on maritime and lacual state property concessions. I would remind you that in yesterday's sitting the motions were presented and the discussion and reply of the representative of the Government took place, which made proposals for rewording some of the motions and agendas under consideration. I would therefore ask those present whether they accept these proposals. (9.49 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u21	Mr President, I have taken note of the proposals made yesterday by Deputy Minister Zanetti. With regard to the rewording that he has proposed to us, I believe that in those terms it is not acceptable, because the basic theme is the duration of a possible extension of concessions in a country that has granted to the highways - I say this for those who are scandalized when it comes to bathing concessions - thirty years of extension of concessions or forty years - if I am not mistaken - to airport companies. After that we do not have the courage to write a precise time limit, but only a general reference is indicated, and I say this because then the debate will continue in the morning. We need to understand why the motorways can be granted 30 years of extension, where the races are, where transparency and whatnot, and in this case it is not possible to do so. I would therefore ask Deputy Minister Zanetti if he would consider a rewording of the reformulation in the following terms: In view of the real estate and infrastructure investments already carried out, the company assets and the professionalism acquired in all these years, in relation to the above-mentioned novations, an extension of thirty years for the concessions in existence of maritime property for tourist-recreational purposes. That's what I'm proposing to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u22	I would ask Deputy Minister Zanetti to speak on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u23	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Gasparri for his counter-proposal, but the Government is not determined to bind itself here to a specific period of transition, which is firmly determined to introduce and equally determined to ensure that it is adequate, and I respect not only the logics of the system, of legislation, of national and Community squares, but of course also the operational needs of those who work in the sector and of those who have made investments. In the term "appropriate" there is all the attention of the Government on these issues and all the willingness then to confront Parliament in the construction of the future legislation. We believe that this is the right way to deal with this issue and, therefore, I reiterate my readiness for the rewordings proposed yesterday. Alternatively, the Government's opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u26	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we stand firm on the initial text without having access to the rewording of the Government, since ours has not been accepted. We remain on the initial text and, therefore, the Government's opinion remains opposed. In essence, we do not accept the proposed reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinario, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u27	Mr President, the situation is the same as that of Senator Gasparri. Today, when a proposal of temporal order is put forward, it means that the same has also been shared with the professional associations and it meets the needs and, above all, the investments of all the operators who are currently working in this field. As we said yesterday and as many of our colleagues say, this is one of the major problems facing the world of tourism, which is currently suffering from so many problems in Italy; the problem of bathing concessions, beaches and the Bolkestein directive is perhaps the most urgent at present. The thirty years serve, for those who have made investments, to be able to re-enter, to be able to see in the medium to long term the future of their family, of their employees and of the operators with whom they collaborate. To go in the direction proposed by the government without a time indication seems to us quite risky, because at this point you could also expect a time span of one year, or five or six months. We want to have certain terms and we consider the thirty years to be a sure and fair indication. Consequently, we cannot accept the rewording proposed by the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u28	Senator Petraglia, do you accept the rewording proposed in motion 580 (text 2)?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u29	I welcome you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u30	Senator Tomaselli, do you accept the rewording proposed by the Government to motion 586?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u31	Mr President, we welcome you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u32	Senator Compagnone, do you accept the rewording proposed in motion 595?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u33	Mr President, we welcome you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u34	Senator Uras, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u35	I accept that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u36	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u39	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, I would like to start from some of the considerations already made yesterday and which, in part, gave rise to some positive responses from the Government, while others were ignored, regardless of the individual motions. We know that the whole issue could be summarized in the state of the proceedings still pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union, namely everything that comes after Directive 2006/123/EC and the infringement notice for Italy since 2008. When discussing these questions, Parliament must certainly take account of the state of this procedure and, in particular, the opinion of the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union, who pointed out that Article 12 of the Directive should be interpreted as obstructing national legislation to extend it. However, the Italian legislator and the Italian Government have done very little, suffering everything that is achieved in the communication of infringement and assuming an attitude of particular inertia, broken only by those extensions - mentioned in the various interventions - that have represented very little for companies that, however, have to deal with a temporal and economic project of their sustainability that cannot be postponed for three or five years, as happened with the extensions that have been there between 2001 and 2015 and with those that will have run between 2015 and 2020. In this respect, the State should consider the obligations and burdens to be borne by the State administration. In my intervention yesterday I have said that, after the reform that has concerned the state property and the passage of competences from the State to the Regions by effect of the legislative decree 31 March 1998, n. 112, the competences, sometimes carried out in rigid way and also a little' messy from the then Ministry of the transports and navigation through the Harbour offices regarding the concession of beaches and of new tracts of marine State property, have been treated in exactly opposite way from Regions and Municipalities. These have shown a greater ease - sometimes, we might say, excessive squinting - in the release of concessions, without fulfilling obligations, due to them as leaders in the adoption of regional and municipal plans of the coasts, which would have given a somewhat more organic structure to the whole issue from the point of view not only of the state property, but also of urban planning and use of the territory tout court. However, despite this and beyond mistakes, wrongs and reasons, over the last fifteen years there has been a significant increase in the number of State concessions and the creation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, mostly characterised by family management, which today have an attitude of confidence towards the State. It is such that we cannot simply say that there is an infringement communication and a setback in relation to relations between the European Union and the Central State and, therefore, we do not know how to decide and we do not exercise the delegation - as has been the case up to now - leaving everything in the swamp waiting for different times. In this sense, the current government and also the precedents - I am referring to the Letta and Monti Governments - have distinguished themselves by a particular inertia towards the European Union. We do not know the negotiations and relations that have been intertwined and interwoven with Brussels. We know, however, that, to date, there is no tangible result that, even for that long-awaited extension and for that hypothesized double track I spoke about in yesterday's sitting (i.e. the possibility of applying immediately the so-called "Bolkestein Directive" for new concessions), allows us to think of an extension regime that takes into account not only the investments carried out, but above all the fact that it must be granted to those who hold a state property concession at a reasonable time, which certainly cannot be a few years. In this sense Senator Gasparri was right when, in his intervention, he observed that the thirty-year-old is not a captious term, or proposed only to arouse the benevolence of the state-owned dealers. This is a term of particular caution, which simply serves to bring to an end the path of a family business, which can guarantee a certain development and well-being for a certain period of life, taking into account also the investments and difficult choices that are made to start that type of enterprise. It is still on the table, for the fact that the delegation has not been exercised, the issue of the non-solution of fair compensation, in the case of revocations or missed renewals of State concessions, which could be a topic to be dealt with and defined. The motions, as far as I am concerned, all responded to this ratio: they were all motivated by the reasons I tried to illustrate and I believe that all contain elements to be considered acceptable, as inspired by the desire to meet the needs of the operators and of the seaside and state property dealers, who for years have been confronted with a climate of uncertainty and do not see before the guarantee of a time horizon that can give them security. Both motion No 582, which we tabled and accepted by the Government, and the others were intended to call for a debate. I note that the Government has partly given the guarantee that the matter will be resolved. Perhaps he should have done much more with regard to the duration of the concessions, as indicated by the motions presented by colleagues of the League and of Forza Italia. I believe that we should go a little further on this and try to indicate more consistent terms, as proposed by the motions mentioned. I therefore call for a vote in favour of the other motions in this direction. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u42	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I think the position of the League is very clear. On this subject on more than one occasion we said that we stand on the side of the associations, who proposed our motion and shared the motions put forward by other fellow senators. Our position is to be on the side of those who do not want to be subject to European Directive 2006/123/EC and once again wants Italy to be autonomous in making its own decisions, to be strong and to be a big voice in Europe, so that the peculiarity of our beaches and our tourism is safeguarded. It seems to me that the Government sees a timid attitude towards Europe and a desire to protect 30,000 beachmen and their families, who are currently waiting as oxygen for a response from the Senate and, above all, from the Government. Let's go on, being on the side of the beaches and those who offer a service to all Italians who go to the beaches of our territory and, above all, to all tourists who choose our coasts to spend their holidays. It is a service that cannot be managed by any multinationals or by those who arrive "to the face" and "to the face" to those who have worked for a lifetime and, thanks to this directive, you take home your work, perhaps offering in exchange "four money". Our businesses must be protected. The President of the Council, when he goes to talk to entrepreneurs and journalists, fills his mouth with the word "resumed," saying that this Government wants to protect Made in Italy and those who work in Italy. We are asking the Government, and this majority, to vote on our proposal, because it is shared by those who are currently working and working to offer a service to those who run our beaches. As a result, we will only and exclusively vote on the motions that go in the direction proposed by the League and those who currently manage our beaches. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u45	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I will say a few words because yesterday, in the debate on the presentation of motions, we clearly expressed our positions. We would just like to add a few points to the debate and other motions in the field. I would like to start by saying that, when years ago, in not too distant 2004, Italy began to talk about the "Bolkestein Directive," the few of us who, together with the trade union and social forces, raised the alarm about the danger of the adoption of that European directive, were once again accused of being ideological and not following market logics. There were great demonstrations of the streets and in-depth discussions, starting with those of the so-called movement of European social movements and forums. But that was also an opportunity to silence some of us as the usual leftists who wanted to radicalize and who were concerned about closing the market. In fact, that directive, which presented itself as an opportunity to reduce bureaucracy and constraints on competitiveness in services for the internal market, was the opening up to free competition and privatisation of all service activities, from health and social services to education and local public services. All the forecasts have come true, with the choices made by successive governments in perfect political continuity, from 2004 to today, although of different colors. I would like to mention the famous Lanzillotta bill for the privatisation of local public services. The alarm we launched at the time may have had to be given more consideration because that directive involved, alongside that, the reduction of the powers of intervention of local and national authorities, because in line with the famous general agreement on trade in services made in the World Trade Organization, which aimed at strengthening liberal policies and a weakening of social, employment and labour guarantees. Perhaps you did not realize that the famous directive, which has been so daring for so many years, would also have an impact in important areas of our economy. That is why today we find ourselves with a complex reality and not at all taken for granted. Of course, we are also concerned about the entry of multinationals, which risk managing our maritime areas for profit-only purposes. However, I would like to say that we are also concerned about how many businesses, certainly not all, manage our beaches. We believe that the revision of all this can also be an opportunity to review legislation, for example, to ensure that citizens have free access to and use of the beaches. Yesterday it was pointed out in the debate that free beaches do not actually exist anymore, and local authorities should take responsibility for this. We cannot deny that the construction of bathing establishments in many places in our country has meant the devastation of the environment, dunes, flora and fauna. As for the principles set out in our motion, we understand that investments have been made in recent years; we are well aware that this is a sector with great employment; therefore, we understand all this and indeed we ask the Government to intervene to ensure the investments made, the employment, but above all the free access and use of our beaches to the citizens. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u48	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, before I go into the substance of the matter, I would like to point out that it was at least unusual to have started talking about state concessions from the motion that Senator Gasparri tabled just one month before the local elections. 10:14 a.m. (Followed by CIOFFI). Then we also received an e-mail from Senator Gasparri, inviting us to vote on Marchini in the City of Rome, and perhaps this was a good election move. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Fortunately the motion was scheduled later; you noticed that you had lost the election, but you are continuing on this path. Of course, we are proud of the way the elections went, because we put a point to make you understand how you are always the same as yourself, as you are simply conservatives. Obviously, this whole debate comes from an electoral move. It is interesting to read the motion submitted by Senator Gasparri, because it says that there are many beaches in Italy and because there are many, many, are not a limited good, therefore linking to the famous "Bolkestein directive," which we are talking about. Since there are so many beaches, there is no need to guarantee competition and ban competitions: this is the reasoning behind all this. But the races we should call them independently of the "Bolkestein Directive": perhaps this is what it would be interesting to try to understand, because we are in the situation where there are beaches managed by the same subjects for seventy years, eighty years, by inheritance. We should understand that the goods we are talking about are of the community, they are goods of everyone, and it is not possible to keep a sector blocked. I think the same beach businessmen are willing to race. I read interviews where they say they want to do them. Then why don't we give her these races? Because we are unfamiliar with these procedures; we do not like races, we want to maintain that famous status quo in which we always continue to float. We must bear in mind that we are talking about Italy. We have read several interventions, for example that of Senator Granaiola yesterday, according to which on 8,000 kilometers of coast, only 2,500 are given in concession. How few there are! We have many kilometers of coast: we close all the beaches, we put beautiful barriers, so the citizens who go to the sea, if they do not pay their "gabellina." Is this the way we want to reason? Since we often talk about Spain, do you know that there the beaches are not given in concession and are all free? Do you know the profoundly different reality of Spain? We must rightly protect national interests and that is fine if we do so. It's important. Italy has many coasts and beaches and we must avoid concentration. When you point out the races it is very important to prevent someone from taking our beaches. A large financial company could arrive that gets 200 concessions; we make the financialization even of the beaches! However, we must prevent a system that has lasted for too many years. Law No 494 of 1993 on maritime state property concessions dates back twenty-three years. Since then, we have been going on with the extensions and, since I am now learning that we must give an adequate transitional period so that the State Property Agency can classify the beaches, I wonder: what have you done in recent years? Did we do this job? Have we checked? The 1993 Law provided for four categories of classification; then, the second Prodi Government said that they were two and priority were all classified in the B band, the low value tourist, which provides for the payment of 1.3 euro per square metre per year. But do we have to protect the interests of those who must be able to go to the sea without being forced to pay the transit to enjoy their sea or do we have to protect the interests of someone who has always been there? There are realities - I was born in Massa and I know Versilia well - where there is a barrier. The same happens in Emilia-Romagna and in many places in Italy. Yesterday Senator Rossi Maurizio spoke of Liguria. Perhaps we should begin to suppose that, where there is an uninterrupted row of establishments, it is necessary to create free beaches and races. We have to understand that there are activities that live in total uncertainty, because of a political class that does not make decisions because it constantly postpones them. We need to give the beach workers certainty. That is right, but I repeat that we are in this situation because nothing has been done for twenty-three years. Now we wake up with our motion and the government comes to talk about the appropriate transitional period. The word 'appropriate', as Senator Granaiola tells us, means long. Still a long time? And when do we do this to her? Let's wait for Father to die, as they say in Tuscany? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] How do we want to intervene? Maybe we need to start doing more serious things. We must say that in this country competitions are done because, as has also been mentioned in this House, we do not like competitions. We have extended the motorway concessions. Let's remember the motorway dealers who pay 2.4 percent of the net revenue. Each year 700 million euros are paid to the treasury, but dealers have a net profit of 1.5 billion. Perhaps it would be nice to overturn the system: I keep 1.5 billion because it's my property and you, in order to make a fair profit, take 700 million. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Perhaps we could do this instead of continuing with the extensions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do we want to forget the building blocks in this country? They were made in 1985, 1993 and the last in 2003. We have granted a building allowance even on what was built on the areas of the state property. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now let's postpone the races. What are we talking about? We must start to think that we must act in a truly simple way, guided by common sense. We have to call the races and raise the concession fees. We must increase them, because the amount of EUR 1.3 per square metre per year really makes chickens laugh. We need to increase the number of classifications and bring it back to four, as was done with the 1993 law with the Ciampi Government. Then we must perhaps understand how to find a way also to protect the right demands of the beaches, when they are right. If in a situation of uncertainty an investment has been made to it has not yet been amortized, we could predict that, for the first time (so only for the first race), the incumbent dealer will pay at the introduction the portion of depreciation not yet amortized. Then, from the second race on, the game is over: when you have to do an intervention, you know that the concession has a duration of three, five, six years or what it will be, and then you adapt. Perhaps we should avoid concentrations - as I said before. We've got to keep someone from coming and picking everything up. We have to do normal and common sense things.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u49	I invite you to conclude, Senator Cioffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u50	CIOFFI (M5S). I'll be done in a minute, ma'am. So, I ask, and I think it's wise to have some healthy courage: doing normal things, because if you do normal things in this country, it looks like you're doing something wrong. When we say that normality is the true revolution, we mean the normality of action and thought, doing things in the main interests of the citizens. Then, if there are private individuals who have to earn, who have their fair gain, but it is called just gain, not extra. If we put these principles back at the center, we really do have the collective interest, otherwise we continue to make the interest of the usual speculators. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u53	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I think we need to re-establish some truth about the bathing industry. We have not accepted the rewording, because we believe that the extension for these activities must have a definite time that we have assumed over thirty years, but the government has declared itself contrary, preferring smokey formulas that others have accepted. Senator Granaiola, that smoky formula we will discuss with the category assemblies, which you like me attend, and in the end you will not be able to tell that there is an appropriate term. There is no certainty for these operators. We do not want to defend privileges or caste interests, because it is clear that the coasts remain public property, but the main problem of this European procedure, compared to the application of the "Bolkestein Directive," is that we of coastal state property have many and could be competed for new operators. Therefore, new subjects could be allowed to access them with competition procedures, given the existence of many coasts that could be better managed with productive activities. We are opposed to any kind of cementification or speculation on the coasts. We believe that those who were to carry out, in any area, in the seaside sector, in the tobacconists, in the steel industries or in the municipal council, illegal activities, should be punished by the judiciary, if anything, because it makes me laugh that today the Guardia di Finanza and the judiciary have gone to do searches at the Banca Popolare di Vicenza, when for years it was known what Zonin was doing. They could have gone there a few years ago, not now that savings and savers have been massacred. So the fight against lawlessness is fine, but not the fight against a productive sector. The story is long enough, but I am going to summarise it: we voted in Parliament for an extension of these concessions until 2020. Many people have voted for it, I would say all of them; it was my proposal, but also by other colleagues. I had put forward a more detailed proposal, but it was not accepted. There was then undersecretary Baretta, it seems to me it was 2012: we proposed an extension, so in the meantime we would have presented a bill that tried to safeguard the environment and the bathing enterprises to try to convince Europe so that an abstract principle of competition, which concerns goods and not services, would not be applied obtusely. In fact, the European Union is also very controversial about the abstract and obtuse way in which it applies principles, because competition must be guaranteed, but not with the destruction of productive sectors. It is an Italian specificity: we have the bathing industries. It happened to me, when Monti was President of the Council, to explain to him that the beaches for Italy do not have the same meaning that they can have for Norway or for the North of Great Britain or for other countries where the climatic conditions did not allow the development of a bathing activity. In recent years, the Letta Government and then the Renzi Government have not faced any law in the sector. I have repeatedly called for Secretary Baretta, in public and in private, at meetings in the Commission, and he has referred it back to others. Then the undersecretary Barracciu had to take care of it, but she resigned because she was involved in what investigation. Then Gozi had to go to Europe to negotiate: let alone you if they take Gozi seriously in Europe. I don't know if he treated, but as a negotiator, frankly, perhaps it was better to send us the last of the lifeguards of a bathing establishment, they would have received it with more respect. Then, after Gozi, Barracciu and Baretta, Enrico Costa (a friend I respect) said, as a new Minister for Regional Affairs, that he would take care of it. He went to class assemblies, made some announcements (I also tell colleagues at NCD), but I also had to explain to him what it was about. Enrico is a great person, he had done the Undersecretary for justice and perhaps he went also to the sea (he is from Cuneo and then he will have gone down to Liguria to find him); but however I explained to him how things are, how Europe mistakes, how the races can be called for the coasts not occupied by companies but that respecting the enterprises is a correct principle. He didn't even come to this debate. Mr Zanetti gave an opinion, he made an effort because he said no to his 30s and spoke of a reasonable deadline. The other day he gave an interview with Radio 24 with Minoli in which he massacred the beach businesses. On the basis of abstract principles, supported by him, he expressed the intention to close everything and to call races for everyone. But these companies are a piece of Italy and of Italian economy that must pay the right concessions - if it pays little more pay - and that must allow access to the sea even to those who pay nothing (there must be no walls and barriers) but must not be massacred or mocked as you are about to do today by voting motions, which we will not valley, containing enough generic terms. And it is done by a Democratic Party that voted for the 30-year extension of concessions on motorways in the Brenner, other than bathing. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Comments of Senator Cioffi]] There are important powers in that area. And when you issued the decree so-called "unblock Italy" you allowed, even in the motorway sector, very long extensions. CIOFFI (M5S). You made the extension. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Extensions are made to airport companies, I think even 40 years old, and they are companies that do business. Different is the treatment for the small and medium Italian company of the coast that must respect the environment, rescues also a bather that is in difficulty and sometimes, if it carries out its activity correctly, keeps the coasts in better conditions than those abandoned by the municipalities. In fact, let's see how free beaches run by the municipalities end, those that should be used by citizens who rightly do not want to pay anything. Often they are a kind of garbage store, while they should be managed and kept better to allow access to the citizen who wants to go with his chair and his towel on the beach without having to pay anything to anyone. And then those who are against concessions, if they are mayors, carry out certain activities. There was the niet of the Regions. I am happy - and I say this without hypocrisy - that Vasco Errani was acquitted because he had suffered, as happened to so many of us and not only to him, unjust accusations from which he came out with his head high. Well, when he was President of the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces a few years ago, he vetoed the hearings. Senator Granaiola and the other PD colleagues who follow these events know that I am telling the exact truth. But we will meet in a few days at the conventions of the sector operators: in those locations the truth knows it. Errani, as President of the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces, said that this sector would be managed by the Regions to introduce some leaps or adopt some bizarre law, such as that of the Region of Tuscany that you praise and that we do not appreciate at all. So the war is waged on an Italian production sector that creates jobs, jobs and is useful for tourism because if a tourist, who comes from abroad for example, finds a well-organized bathing establishment, maybe returns to Italy. There are kilometers and kilometers of beaches that can be competed for new operators, there are free beaches that local authorities should manage better, there are rules to be imposed also on private operators of access and respect for the environment, so nobody wants the wild deregulation; and do not say that you want to make the beaches like the Trevi Fountain. Enough with this nonsense, because the coast remains public property and there are goods that are made available in exchange for payments that, if necessary, can be adjusted and revised. The truth is that in front of the highways the PD kneels and grants extensions; in front of the Italian small and medium-sized companies prefers the massacre. That's why we didn't accept the play of reformulation. In fact, the entrepreneurs of that sector have read the interview with "Radio 24" of Deputy Minister Zanetti and they know very well what is the hypocrisy of the rite that is consumed today, to which we do not associate because we want to defend real and legitimate interests, with transparency. The European Union, which emanates the Bolkestein directive, with which we are persecuting those who have a banquet in a local market or those who rent an umbrella, let us say that Europe is dealing with other things, because if it does so it will be rejected not only in Britain but also in many other parts of the world; this will be a problem, because a broken Europe will count even less in the world and will be even more colonized by investors from other parts of the planet. I denounce European dullness as a risk that it will cause further damage to Europe. I would like a Europe that works and has more realism. Colleagues, Spain - and which remains in the proceedings - has extended for seventy years the concessions to companies in this sector; Portugal has made very long extensions: are they or are they not in the European Union? Perhaps the Spaniards did not send Gozi, Baretta, Barracciu, Enrico Costa and others and I name them because they are people attending assemblies and meetings of this category. Democracy is made in Parliament, but also in the real country and we - with good peace of the winners of these days - frequent the real country, sometimes with consensus, sometimes without. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] It is not that we live on Mars or in the golden beaches (it is really the case to say). [[Call the president back.]] I'm done, Madam President. Therefore, we maintain our motion and our battle in defense of a productive sector that is an Italian excellence, which must be regulated, but also respected, because it creates employment, work and well-being and is not a cancer to be combated and eradicated. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u56	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, unlike my previous colleague, we accept the rewordings that the Government has proposed to us, both to the first and to the second commitment (obviously, since the third and fourth have been accepted). We believe that the government must do its utmost to protect our small entrepreneurs from the great international giants. We believe this government has no responsibility. Moreover, until 2020 there were the effects of a law which the Italian Parliament adopted by a very large majority, confirmed in all these years by the Ministers for relations with the Parliament of both sides. I remind Gasparri that in the last legislature he was an important Leader of this Senate and that his party had two important ministers (before Ronchi and, then, Senator Bernini) who could have already then modified the end of 2020, as we now ask to do to this Government, precisely towards the protection of our small entrepreneurs, to carry forward the renewal and extension of their concessions. A separate speech deserves the new concessions which, of course, from the outset, must respect the Bolkestein directive. Mr President, we thank the Government, and we are sure that, even with our motion, it will make itself felt in Europe, as it has done so far, so that we can be respected.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u59	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Government, in the person of Deputy Minister Zanetti, for having accepted our motion with a very slight rewording of one of the various, many points that we have placed among the commitments that we intend to entrust to the attention of the Government on this issue. I believe that from the discussion of these hours, last night and this morning, there can come a reinforced commitment from the Government, thanks also to the initiative of the Senate and the various groups, to overcome the phase of long precariousness that this sector has been going through for too many years. 10:35 a.m. (Tomaselli followed). Several members of the Democratic Group said this and Mrs Granaiola reminded us, among others, at the beginning of our debate: this is one of the most significant, peculiar and strategic sectors of the national tourism industry. A sector that, in the last ten years, has suffered from the precariousness and indeterminateness of its future, following the events mentioned. A sector that has extraordinary potential thanks to the widespread presence on the territory: 30,000 companies that arrive, during the summer, to occupy more than 300,000 employees. A sector that has been born as a peculiar initiative of a substantially familiar industry, but which has consolidated in recent years as a real supply chain, which has, among other things, a peculiarity: a deep, daily attention to the defence of the sea, the beaches, the environment, which is the main element of the production initiative of this sector. I am sorry that some groups have prevailed - last but not least in Mr Gasparri's speech for the Forza Italia Group, which he represents - on certain points (not on all) on which the Senate has shown broad convergence. It is no coincidence that Deputy Minister Zanetti accepted essentially all the motions and agendas presented, evidently calling for the rewording of certain points. To make elements of distinction prevail - Senator Gasparri, who now presides over the House, will not want me to do so - with some loss even propagandistic, does not help a cause I believe widely shared in this House, aimed at overcoming the precariousness and enhancing a peculiarity of the national tourist industry. Nevertheless, I believe that the elements that make the entire Senate contribute to inviting the Government to a strong initiative towards the European Commission prevail; to adopt in the coming weeks, just as Vice-Minister Zanetti has anticipated us, a measure of direction and legislative initiative through a law of delegation, which, I am sure, will receive the indications of the discussion of these hours here in the Senate, turned first - I say this in a summary way because the debate has largely focused on the merit of the issues - to define a path of public evidence and also of races with regard to the new concessions, in the spirit that the European Commission is asking us to do. This must be done by identifying absolutely transparent and solid criteria that, on the one hand, can enhance the history of the Italian bathing industry (the strong link with the environment, the spread of small and medium-sized enterprises, the attention to the world of work and the protection of the sea); on the other hand, they avoid a risk that we all share in large part, namely that opening up to public evidence procedures, to tenders for new concessions, may be the key to elements of market distortion, that we all want to be open, transparent, liquid, competitive, but that obviously can only take certain risks. The risks to be avoided are certainly the financial concentration in the management of this sector and, as we are told also many examples of news - also here, that of Ostia is a limited case - compromises and penetrations of criminal circles. Another major issue, which has emerged and has been in the attention of all of us for years, is the need to ensure that we are given the indication that the European Commission is going through a system of silent extensions, and therefore to provide for a kind of opening up to the market, as well as to protect a heritage of companies, investments, professionalism, employment and work, which over the decades the Italian bathing industry, entirely peculiar to similar experiences in Europe, has produced in our country. Imagining to cancel with a sponge stroke this tradition and this peculiarity, closing (as if we were in the presence of a door) an experience to open another the next day, is a methodology that would not do the good neither of the market, nor of tourism, would not respond to the need to protect entrepreneurial and occupational assets, and would not benefit the richness of the environment in our country. We believe that it is possible - and in this sense goes the motion that the Democratic Party Group wanted to present and on which the Government expressed itself favorably - to find a balance between these two elements: openness to the market and the protection and valorization of an experience of peculiarities of our country. We need more time to do this. I am sorry, Senator Gasparri, that you indicated the need to define in our motions a time equal to thirty years an indispensable element of the act of address that presented the Group of Forza Italia. I believe that this is a stiffening which risks weakening an initiative which is widely shared by all of us. It takes time not only to ensure a balanced transition, but because in recent years various governments and, if I may add, various parliamentary assemblies have failed to do a demanding job. There is a need for acts, policies and choices, starting from the reconnaissance of the state property still available and free, that can and must be done together with the Regions and the municipalities and for whose work there is a need for a binding legislative act, as well as of times and modalities. I am thinking of the need to revise the plans of the individual municipalities, to revise the fees, both in determining the cost of the fees that companies must pay to the State or in any case to public institutions, and also in determining who must control and collect those fees. I think, not for now but for years, that it would be useful - and this can also be done in the law delegation that the Government has announced to present in the next few days - to imagine a redefinition of competences in the collection of the canons, which I would entrust to the municipalities, assigning them not only the collection, but also the availability of these resources. It would be a more useful measure, it would help the finances of our municipalities and it would bring the element of collection in the seaside companies closer to the institution which will have to manage those resources well, including through actions aimed at improving environmental protection. This is needed and this will be done in this transitional period, which will need adequate time. An adequate time may be a few years, but it may also be thirty-five or forty years, Senator Gasparri, and not necessarily thirty years. It will, however, be an appropriate period, within a negotiation with the European Commission which is still open and at a time when I believe that we would make a mistake if we forced choices and times of our initiative, at a time when there is a serious open dispute at the European Court of Justice, which will take place in the coming weeks. That is why we support the government's initiative, reinforced by the senate work of these hours. It is difficult - and I conclude - to measure the element of liberalism in each of us, when we do not have clear interests in the field and the need to protect a balance. We need to protect the element of the market with the element of the peculiarity of the Italian bathing industry. I am a little surprised by the tones of the 5 Star Movement here in the Senate and Senator Cioffi, to whom I entrust feelings of great personal sympathy. I found no trace of such statements, Senator Cioffi, in the press review that I took care of going to search in these hours, in the initiatives that the 5 Star Movement held in Ostia during the recent election campaign. Enjoy the neosindac Virginia Rays, in a sincere and loyal way! I have not found any trace of what you have said this morning in this House. None of the representatives of the 5 Star Movement, who spoke during the election campaign - for example in Ostia - used the tones and arguments you used here, but lively consistency in the electoral campaign is often difficult to find. [[Comments of Senator Cioffi]] Welcome then to the opening of a new market idea by the 5 Star Movement. We believe that this idea should be measured with the general interest to enhance the heritage of the Italian bathing industry and our motion goes exactly in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senators Cioffi and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u60	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. Following the vote on motions under Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the agendas for G1 and G2 will be put to the vote, also for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 539. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Gasparri and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on motion No 539, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 579. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 579, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 580 (text 3). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 580 (text 3), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 582. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 582, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 586 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 586 (text 2), tabled by Senator Tomaselli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 595 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 595 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), presented by Senators Uras and Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G2 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u61	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators, 1-00584, tabled by Senator Filippi and other senators, 1-00585, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators, 1-00588, presented by Senator Uras and other senators, 1-00596, presented by Senator Barani and other senators, and 1-00599, presented by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, on initiatives against corruption in procurement in major public works. I call Senator Cappelletti to explain motion 293 (text 3). [[Brusio.]] I would ask my colleagues to lower the level of the buzz and invite the senators who wish to leave the Chamber to do so quickly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last we are debating a motion tabled two years ago and signed by almost a fifth of the senators representing different political groups. It has taken seven hundred days for its calendarization, at least a dozen requests at the Conference of Group Leaders and repeated requests in this House. I wonder why there has been so much difficulty in discussing a motion that deals with the most serious case of corruption ever in the history of the Italian Republic. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, it would seem that, as we have seen recently for the Daspus for the corrupt, we cannot and do not want to talk about corruption and, above all, about effective means of combating it; at least they do not want to talk about it by the majority and a part of conniving opposition. It would seem, Mr President, that we cannot and do not want to talk about corruptive episodes involving politics and its highest levels, especially if they are gigantic, pervasive and bipartisan corruptive episodes that have involved both the Democratic Party and Forza Italia, both the majority forces and the opposition forces, as happened in the case of the MOSE. It would seem, Mr President, that they want to avoid embarrassment and hide very heavy responsibilities of subjects who have held many strategic roles precisely in the Consorzio Venezia new, center of a real association to criminals, or even members of this same Senate currently investigated or put to trial. Mr President, it is as if we are not talking about the most serious bribe scandal in the history of the Italian Republic. It is, after all, a way for citizens to forget it more quickly and do not come to blame political responsibilities as well as those of criminal order within the competence of the prosecutors. Colleagues, faced with a corruption that burns several billions of euros of public resources in a single work there are not only criminal responsibilities, but also and above all responsibility for a policy unable to prevent corruptive events that, on the contrary, have virtually spoiled every great public work carried out in Italy. Mr President, the MOSE scandal in Veneto has brought everyone together. It is a scandal involving public administrators, officials and politicians at the highest levels of the institutions and of course entrepreneurs, united in a criminal partnership that knows no precedent. The time has come to wonder whether the choice to entrust the design and execution of one of the most expensive public works ever realized in Italy to a single subject, has not been made precisely to promote a fertile environment to corruption, financing - legal and illegal - to parties, candidates, politics. We should not ask ourselves, in short, whether those choices have facilitated the corruptive facts known to all, but whether they had been specifically planned for the purpose. The time has come to wonder whether the system of raising the costs of three or four times - as well as for MOSE also for other major public works such as, for example, the Pedemontana Veneta motorway currently under construction, which in 2001 had a forecast of expenditure of 750 million euros and today has reached over 3 billion euros, which are not yet sufficient to conclude it - does not hide exactly the same logic. The time has come to wonder why the MOSE was subjected to an environmental impact assessment procedure with negative results and the policy did not blink and how it was possible to authorize cost increases that brought the total value of the work to almost 6 billion euros. The time has come to ask whether the poor system of supervision and control of the public administrations, starting with those ministerial ones, does not reveal, in all its gravity, the criticalities of the legislation in force in the matter of great strategic works, and if the attempt to make to forget quickly this story is not rather functional to grant also the works of maintenance of the MOSE to the entrepreneurial groups responsible for the corruption, maybe without public competition, because this would be very serious, I would say diabolical. Perhaps a parliamentary committee of inquiry would be the most appropriate forum to examine these questions, but this motion, if accepted, would give a certain impetus to the restoration of the minimum conditions necessary to proceed with the work. In order to stem the spread of corruptive phenomena, we ask the Government to undertake to carry out the immediate technical-scientific and accounting verification of the MOSE project, using an independent and qualified body, composed also of experts in the field of the design and modeling of complex marine systems. It dates back to a few days ago the news that, according to a study by CNR, half a million tons of cement, weighing on the seabed, led the lagoon to fall by as much as eight centimeters. In the three port mouths affected by the work of the MOSE, according to this report, the decrease recorded is in the order of even 7-8 cm. Think that, according to the original project, it was expected that a fall of that kind would occur over a century. Well, in two years we have already reached this level of subsidity. We therefore wonder whether or not it is necessary to review the technical and scientific aspects of this project. Secondly, the motion commits the Government to arrange for verification, in order to know whether the executive project has confirmed the dimensions of the final project. We also ask the Government to take action in order to launch an international tender for the performance of the maintenance service, including the design and construction of dedicated plants. (at 10.59 a.m.) (Beeping) We invite the Government to take immediate measures to penalise the companies involved in the corrupting system around the MOSE project and in similar situations that should arise in relation to other strategic works financed by the State. This is called Daspo and was invoked by the President of the Council and then forgotten. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We also invite the Government to review the acts and procedures followed for the realization of the strategic works deliberated or in the process of authorization, quickly starting the consequent procedures for the recovery of the resources removed from the collectivity through abnormal and abominable increases of the costs of construction. We also call on the Commission to report to Parliament on the state of procurement for major works, assessing the adoption of all appropriate administrative and legislative initiatives to allow the suspension, revocation and cancellation of acts and procedures spoiled by corruptive events. Then we invite the Government to review the regulatory framework on the custody of public works, with the priority objective of overcoming the special legislation that has simplified the procedures in the matter of large works derogating from ordinary legislation and giving immense powers to extraordinary commissioners. We still invite the Government to provide for the restoration of environmental impact assessment procedures, also providing for the prohibition of the custody of works without competitions and without definitive projects, as well as the prohibition of recourse to subcontracting, as well as to start consequently a process of revision of the legislation on the assignment of works and project finance, in order to ensure the advertising and transparency of the procedures currently missing. Finally, we call on the Government to strengthen the rules on conflicts of interest, including through explicit bans on contributions to parties, foundations and political leaders by companies operating in public-funded procurement, as well as to strengthen, in terms of specialised human resources and advanced technological means, supervisory, monitoring and control bodies. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u63	I call Senator Filippi to explain motion No 584.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the theme of the great works, of their design, of their testing and putting into operation has long been a thorny and complex subject for our country: thorny, because the performances we have recorded in recent years have often unveiled a corruptive and collusive system that has adversely affected not only the credibility and good image of public institutions but also the loss of overall competitiveness of our country system; complex because the matter of procurement for large public works and their design is undoubtedly complex matter, a matter for those involved in the work, by the way. And it could not be otherwise for large public works, which often engage in a valuable territory or in contexts with intense urban settlement or also, as in the case of MOSE, in contexts such as that of the lagoon of Venice and its city of priceless value for the whole of humanity. A project, that of the MOSE, on which focuses the first motion presented and to which our unavoidably recalls; a project that, must be said for intellectual honesty and political coherence with the past, has been characterized by a daring technological solution, very challenging also in terms of realization and commissioning, which has put and is putting to the test the most qualified engineering of our country. The MOSE system was not the only possible solution to the phenomenon of tides, but that was the solution taken, even in the face of opposing technical opinions. For this reason the decision phase of the most appropriate design solution, also because of the competence of those who were to exercise this option, has undoubtedly been very articulated and suffering. And no less questionable was the choice of trust to the realization subject that, as from bad tradition in our country, also in this case it did not happen for race, let alone on the basis of a definitive executive plan granted both from the technical point of view and on the level of costs. Of all these important aspects that have spread over the years in the motion submitted by the Democratic Party group is given due and objectively account and to that reference for a punctual reconstruction, even historical, of the main phases of the work. The use of political and legislative instruments, both for the design solution and for the choice of foreign experts for the assessment of impacts, as well as for solutions related to the implementation of the interventions, despite conflicting opinions on administrative procedures, was also unique in this context. Nevertheless, due to correctness, it must also be said that, although there has not been a clear distinction of roles between controlled and controlled subjects (unfortunately also this a constant in our country, which has often given rise to distracting phenomena of resources), the project as a whole has not known significant degenerations in costs. The increase in costs from the design phase dating back to the late 1990s to the most recent estimates, therefore over a period of more than twenty years, did not exceed 20%. For God's sake, we are not in the Guinness of the primates in the rigour of the respect of the estimates, but I must say that we have had in other circumstances, unfortunately, rising costs far greater for much less complex interventions. If anything, it would be useful to know, and we will ask the Government, where and for what the cost increases have been recorded and presumably we will discover very interesting things. We obviously reserve the right to do so in the seats and with the most appropriate instruments and certainly not with a parliamentary motion. But there are two critical issues which I do not want to evade when presenting our motion and which I want to represent in order to raise the level of attention of Parliament and on which we believe we must commit the Government. Only two issues in the face of the many issues raised in other motions, which we consider instrumental, not because they are unfounded, but because of the solutions that they propose in the face of a state of progress of about 90% of the entire work and that risk being pure demagogy and political speculation. For this reason we consider the proposals of those who make the possibility, now, of questioning the design solution and termination of contracts. This is simply because things are not done and then disposed of, especially when there are public resources, of all citizens, aimed at solving a problem that cannot but be considered of national interest and not only of that community. I would like to say very clearly, many of the issues raised and which have been prejudiced for us, are now linked to a past season, namely that of the objective law in which integrated contracts and general contractors, in the dynamics of the manufacturers, assumed a role of absolute predominance towards the contracting stations by relegating design and testing to phases subordinate to the particular interest of the company. We have not been silent in the past on these aspects. Anyone who wants can go and see the inspections we have presented over the years; but that has been a season, as I have repeatedly had occasion to recall in this House too, where a culture of government has had a devastating effect on the role of control of the public subject and in which the degenerative behaviour of large companies has not been adequately embarrassed. And it is on this first point that the motion calls for a change of pace in several circumstances, which we already know in part, but on which the public institutions, starting with the relevant parliamentary committees, must be made more aware. In short, we are at this point for a more incisive role of control and supervision of the work of the enterprises in terms of realization and in terms of reporting, providing, as we have written, also the endowment of adequate staff in the competences and numbers of the staff of the public administration. A second decisive aspect for the effective implementation of the work is constituted, because of the technical complexity of the work itself, simple in its principle of mechanical operation, but daring and complex in its effective control of the gates, by the need to establish the effective adequacy of the resources necessary for its operation and its non-trivial maintenance. On this second aspect we really recommend to the Government the utmost attention. The risk that we feel, despite all the good assumptions, is that the Government with its delegated structures, risks to play a mere role of letterhead or is limited to a notary attitude regarding the requests that will come from the subject manager of the work. We can also suggest a full recovery of the competences allocated to the Higher Council of Public Works, for an active comparison, which also means conscious negotiation of the public resources necessary for its continued operation. The MOSE, like in other ways the Bridge on the Strait or the Salerno-Reggio Calabria, are not for us demons to exorcise, nor taboos to be debunked: they are complex works, characterized by bold solutions, that can represent the greatness of a country and its genius in the world - as for centuries happened in our country - or can be a cause of international deception and waste of large public money. As far as we are concerned, there is no question of their usefulness and potential impact on international public opinion, but rather the design definition of interventions and the actual coverage and economic compatibility of their financial plans. Venice is a unique reality in the world, perhaps even too important in its historical and artistic value to contextualize it to our country alone; therefore it deserves that the Government, whatever Government is in office, fully feel the weight of its responsibilities. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u65	I call Senator Crosio to explain motion No 585.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u66	Madam President, when we wrote this motion, we did not want to miss the opportunity to make our important contribution to an issue that has been annoying and, unfortunately - alas - continues to harass our beautiful country, namely corruption in procurement in major public works, as the item is on the agenda. We have also been careful not to trivialize this opportunity. With all respect for what I have read in these motions, it seems reductive to focus the debate on being for or against a work of which management can be called into question: ça va sans dire; speaking instead of its necessity is another pair of sleeves. Let me be clear: we would not want there to be an attempt, even too veiled, to make a motion and then, as often happens in our country, to throw the child away with dirty water. We wouldn't want to make a motion against major public works because someone could steal. If we look at the past, it has almost always happened this way in our country, but we want other models of reference to which our country must be inspired. I want to be very clear about that. I say softly, but also bringing a discreet professional personal experience not only within the borders of our country, that we must be aware of the fact that we have important companies and professionals that in our country have had difficulties in managing and carrying out works (and that maybe they have also been affected by some process of which I do not know the outcome and that now I do not care) but that abroad have been protagonists of important achievements. The reasoning we would like to make is as follows: does vice lie in man, in undertakings, in those who manage or perhaps in the system? It's in the system. Let us come to the point with concrete examples, otherwise we do not understand each other. I am a talker and, as my colleagues in the Commission know, I always take an example that my colleague, Mr Filippi, knows very well: one of the most important works done in Europe was made by a country bordering us and was inaugurated on 1 June. By the way, your Prime Minister was convinced that we did it, but someone else did. Battute apart, it is a great work that shows that such projects can be realized in the planned times and with the money dedicated to these. Mankind can do this. If then to the realization of these works, or of their parts, participate enterprises that in Italy fail to shine for quality, but that outside the borders succeed instead to do it one wonders why. There is a Roman company that has won a contract from a railway that connects our country with a neighbouring country. In the neighbouring country the same company, starting with a single yard, has managed to finish the works in the times, in the ways and with the resources allocated, indeed, has arrived before the expected time and since there are countries with us very serious neighbors, Mr Deputy Minister, that in the contracts of contracts preview the bonus and the malus, has earned a bonus (I speak of hundreds of thousands of euros, even if they do not use the euro in that country) and the enterprise has even been assigned a further work, contiguous to this and the same work, that was to continue in our country, is still in the phase of construction site (we are three and a half years late). It is then established that it was not the fault of the enterprise, but of the system. Returning to the question of motions, we must not use the MOSE as a pretext, on which - I am sorry, President - we can write an encyclopedia of the stupidities that have been done, to say that we do not have to do the great works in our country or important works. For thousands of years man has accomplished great works and we should continue to do them. There are countries in which we have gone under the Channel, we have done the AlpTransit, we have done many works, always. Especially in the last century, we made extraordinary steps in engineering. Now I hear that we have to do micro-works on the territory; but what are we talking about? First of all, we must ensure that planning is less short-sighted - Mr Filippi will also give me this - and also by the Government, because at the moment the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is fugitive, unable to work and with a very short-sighted vision. There are twenty-five works in this country that are defined strategic, among which is also included this damn Florence tranvia that does not match anything with the strategic works. I really would like a country where there was serious planning for the important infrastructure that needs to be implemented. With motion 585 we try to make a modest contribution, so that in addition to these works there may be conditions so that mankind, that is, professionals and businesses, can work peacefully and dignifiedly and achieve the goals they are able to achieve. This is the important thing, on this we must focus and not seek a pretext to say that the great works are still the concentration of evil. That is not true; the concentration of evil is probably everywhere in this country. We must therefore create the conditions so that we can work in a serene and serious way. In this motion we have tried to write and give examples on which we can really work. Then if one wants to tell me that he is opposed to the TAV or to another work, it is very free to do so, but I think it is another moment, another world and another matter. Here we must be able to keep up with Europe. I am surprised who in this House says that we are organic and strategic within a European thought and then says that in our country we are not able to do the great works. It is not true: we are able to do them if conditions are created, because here we steal at all levels, not only in great works. It is a matter of how things are done and who manages them. With this motion we want to make a contribution, but I will not read back all the points we submit to the Government. I would just like to make two comments: having read very carefully the motions of my fellow Members, I invite them to review them, because part of what they have written has been overcome by the reform of the procurement code. I think it is inappropriate to insist on the objective law again. The objective law in this country we know why it was implemented: it was born with a good intent but it ended badly. It is no longer foreseen, it has been deleted; actually it was deleted by Renzi in his own way, so in the wrong way, although I can only say that I agree that it has been deleted. We know that the reform of the procurement code is not perfect and that we must work on it, we said it yesterday in the meeting that there was in the Chamber and Senate Commissions in the presence of the president of the National Anti-Corruption Authority Canton. So we need to get our hands on it. I take this opportunity to stress to Deputy Minister Nencini, who knows very well what we are talking about, that we consider very important point 6 of the device of our motion that is that the government takes into account the work that is preparing to carry out the parliamentary committees in the context of the cognitive procedures for the deepening, correction and implementation of legislative decree no. 50 of 2016, that is to say the reform of the code of contracts. To be clear, Mr Vice-Minister - in the course of a question time I also asked Minister Delrio - the parliamentary committees again made themselves available to the Government to do a serious job - as was done at first - on the reform of the procurement code, a job that can truly accompany an interesting process on the issue of corruption. We hope that the Government, this time, contrary to what was previously done during the second reading in the Senate, will really take into account the work of the Commissions that is carried out with criterion and judgment also by the oppositions, in collaboration with the Government. Mr. Deputy Minister, we'll be watching over this. We have had Mr Delrio's assurances, and I think this is very important. For us, this is the focal point to which Parliament must devote its work in order to prevent work from being done in this country, or rather it should be done but it should continue to steal. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u67	I call Senator Uras to explain motion No 588.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u68	Madam President, I am speaking on a subject which concerns procurement but also other public expenditure. In my opinion, in the reformist anxiety that has seized this country in the last thirty years (sometimes I want to say enough with the reforms, because every time we do one it seems that it works worse) in this reformist anguish, we have guiltyly eliminated preventive controls of legitimacy. The result of this elimination was the multiplication of requests for intervention by the ordinary judiciary, in particular by the prosecutors of the Republic. There has also been an abnormal development of the interest in one of the crimes typical of the administration, that of the abuse of office. In many cases, ex officio abuse is due to non-compliance with legal procedures in the adoption of the decision. What did we get with this? A good slice of honest directors, obliged in many circumstances to take decisions with speed and speed, have incurred this crime, have become the subject of a very heavy social criticism and have stopped - blocked in many cases - the procedures in place for the realization of the work; moreover, some serious damage has been caused in the administrative activity and a costly dispute has developed for the public administration and the coffers of the State. I think the time has come to reflect on the preventive controls of legitimacy, perhaps marking the border, the perimeter within which such control activity must be carried out, clearly marking the quality of the control intervention to be carried out and attributing this control activity to a subject. In the past, the Court of Auditors had control over regional administrations and the State; for the municipalities there were the famous Coreco and Cocico, I think that today we could identify in the Court of Auditors, strengthened, the seat of this activity of aid and contribution to those who administer the public thing, so that it does not go wrong. In fact, the preventive control, which is an additional eye, done at the time when the decision is formed and the act is realized on the basis of which there is the response of the economic and social subjects interested in that intervention, guarantees not only the formal correctness of the path, but also a considerable reduction of the possibility of commission of crimes, even of considerably heavier content; it guarantees more those who work in the administration in good faith and limits, much more, those who, on the other hand, want to use their function to carry out misdeeds. That is why, Madam President, I think this matter deserves attention. Sometimes reforming also means returning, having more thought, to an activity that was carried out before, of which perhaps the importance has not been understood. Perhaps it was thought that this would speed up much the administrative action of the State and the expenditure and that the effects would be positive and in many cases the opposite has happened. We ended up in litigation for centuries, faced with a judicial system engulfed also by this kind of attention, which certainly had to be put in place in order to prevent criminal offences and to harm public administration and the collective interest. This kind of reflection must be done and what do we ask the government? Let us assume and reason on the effects of the re-introduction of a preventive control method; let us define the scope of the acts; let us define who the subjects are; let us verify whether this is useful through specific conventions between public administrations or let us leave it to the limit, if necessary, of the responsible will of public administrations. But let us reflect, because we need to reflect on this matter, in order to guarantee procedures and to verify the ability to fully grasp the objective. It is necessary because, I think, expenditure is accelerated and the burden on public administration is avoided in cases of litigation. It is necessary, because this guarantees the citizen, with more respect than in the past. In the past, in fact, the control of legitimacy had become only a burden, even in the intercourse that the administrations had with respect to the control bodies, because the subsequent litigation was not avoided: the economic or social subject interested in that procedure could always resort to the judiciary, the administrative one rather than the ordinary one. On the other hand, if we qualify the preventive control of legitimacy, having also new instruments such as, for example, the Anti-Corruption Authority, with some more element from the substantive point of view, we would have the right and the duty to say that those acts, so out, cannot be subjected to further scrutiny by subjects of the judiciary, but must be considered, because of the registration, as perfect acts and therefore able to explain their effects perfectly. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u69	I call Senator Barani to explain motion No 596.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u70	Madam President, of course, our Group is also interested in making a contribution and wants to commit the Government to all necessary initiatives against corruption in the procurement of major public works. We always start from the MOSE, this electromechanical experimental module, which is a project or work at the forefront of civil, environmental and hydraulic engineering in the realization phase, aimed at the defense of Venice and its entire lagoon from the waters to protect the population. It has, therefore, civil protection functions, but also the protection of all the existing economic realities and it is useless to reiterate that until 2010 191 large floods have exceeded 110 cm and that only from 2010 onwards have begun to be considerably reduced. The final draft of this system was approved in 2002. This is a necessary work and the Government that has done it has done a worthwhile work. Such definitive plan has been chosen at the end of a long planning and decision-making process during which the system of gates to the mouths of port has been compared with numerous alternative solutions. The work, responding to precise constraints and requirements, as I have just said, assures the defense of the territory and its inhabitants from the floods; it does not modify the water exchanges to the mouths of port; it does not have fixed intermediate batteries in the canals to the mouths of port; it does not interfere with the landscape nor with the economic activities that take place through the same mouths. It is able to protect Venice and the entire lagoon from tides up to three meters high and from a rise in sea level up to 60 cm in the next century, therefore for over one hundred years. The design and execution of the interventions to defend the city of Venice and the lagoon was initially entrusted to the Magistrate agli acque and then to the Consorzio Venezia Nuova, in possession of the technical and professional skills adequate to manage the whole of the safeguard interventions. To carry out its tasks as concessionaire of the State for the realization of studies, experimental activities, designs and works, the Consorzio Venezia Nuova has, over time, equipped itself with a structure of planning, organization, management and control of the various interventions of safeguard in the various stages of implementation, acting at the same time, operationally, as interface with the granting administration, on the one hand (former Magistrate to the waters of Venice, now Interregional Providetorato for the public works of the Triveneto), and with the performers of the activities, on the other hand: designers, specialized performers of studies and experimental activities, enterprises performing works. The Consorzio Venezia Nuova has followed, therefore, the development of the interventions, from their definition in the field of contractual with the granting authority, to their design, until their completion. Over the last few years, the MOSE has proved to be an important driver for the national and local economy and a source of employment for thousands of workers, directly and indirectly, especially today, when the state of play for the MOSE implementation is more than 85 (some say up to 90) percent of what has been planned. Considering that the lagoon and the city of Venice since 1987 have been included in the UNESCO World Heritage List and therefore for our country represent a historical, cultural, architectural and environmental heritage of inestimable value, also from the economic and occupational point of view, since always, in order to safeguard them, various regulatory interventions have been approved, also in the light of the events that have occurred over the years, starting from the special legislation for Venice provided for by Law No 171 of 1973, which declared the protection of Venice and its lagoon problem of preeminent national interest. The MOSE project is a work of advanced complexity from the technological and engineering point of view, certainly comparable to the largest works in the sector around the world. In fact, the MOSE consists of groups of mobile gates, placed at the three mouths of port, that temporarily separate the lagoon from the sea in case of high tide. All in all, there are 78 gates divided into 4 groups. When the tide drops, the gates are again filled with water and come back to their home. It is an Italian high-engineering system, fulfilling the task for which it was designed. The Government has recently adopted the new Procurement Code, referred to in Legislative Decree No. 50 of 2016, examined by this branch of Parliament and the 8th Commission, precisely in order to combat the illicit procurement, because there had been problems about that and other projects. Following the judicial events that took place between 2013 and 2014, which saw involved part of the management bodies of the Consorzio Venezia Nuova and its enterprises, the State intervened, rightly, in order to ensure the continuation of the work - which is the most important thing - and the conclusion of the work, because the child must be washed, but should not be thrown in place of the dirty water. In December 2014, the National Anti-Corruption Authority (NAAC) proposed the extraordinary management of the Consortium, with the appointment of three extraordinary directors. I wanted to make this brief premise, in order to invite the Government to seven commitments, which our Group considers important and priority in order not to block the works and to keep them going, with the certainty that they are concluded in certain times, with certain economic and financial commitments, so that there are no grey or shadow situations. The first commitment is to adopt, in compliance with what has already been planned and with the provisions of the Document on Economics and Finance for 2016, every necessary initiative aimed at promoting the completion of the MOSE work by the end of December 2018, allocating, to this end, the remaining financial resources necessary for the completion of the work and the safeguarding of Venice and its lagoon. The second commitment is to bind the Consorzio Venezia new, although in the management phase, for the activities still to be carried out in order to complete the works. The third commitment is to predict, in view of the completion of the works and the full functionality of the work, measures aimed at overcoming and separating the phase of realization and the experience of the Consorzio Venezia new from that of the subsequent management of the work. Successive commitments call on the Government to counter, with every measure deemed necessary, the phenomenon of corruption, fraud and illegals to promote the strengthening of collaboration with the DAC, to promote, in relation to the realization of public infrastructures and events, the constant recourse to the adoption of protocols that favor the adoption of models of institutional cooperation and the supervision of public contracts and finally to equip the public administrations with the appropriate professional resources to address the problems of interlocution with the designers of the works and to exercise control over the works. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Liuzzi to explain motion No 599.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than twenty years (one could say since the very early 1990s), i.e. the first, acute, shocking demonstrations, media and political, of the judicial events that go under the name of Tangentopoli, that the terms "corruption" and "public contracts" are united in the collective imaginary Italian. They almost intertwine, and, in the common perception, the one, alas, recalls the other. It is not an indication of good social, economic and democratic health in the country. This is due, of course, to the emergence of judicial and media events, but, in the humble opinion of those who speak to them, also to the continuous legal and legal changes. Carlo Cattaneo, the great federalist thinker, already in 1860 claimed that "Every change of laws, that is not a real improvement, is a damage; because it suspends the rapid course of transactions, spreads a universal doubt, makes insufficient all practical knowledge, forces men to re-do all their judgments and calculations. These words resonate today more than ever, although totally ignored. In the Official Gazette of 19 April last, in fact, the legislative decree no. 50 of 2016, bearing the new code of public contracts, came into force brutally on the same day of the publication, without the forecast of any period of vacay. The absence of an appropriate period of metabolism of the new text by operators has also been stigmatised by the Council of State in its opinion and will understandably be the most critical element in the short term for the implementation of the reform. It is an easy prophecy, but there is more. The new procurement code was presented by Premier Matteo Renzi himself as a historical reform, which simplifies procedures and makes trusts certain, but we should remind the Government that if there was only one implementing regulation for the De Lise Code, now the implementing acts to which the new code refers are about fifty, between regulations and guidelines. Let us not hide behind hypocrisy: it is an impressive number that brings indecision, precariousness and blocks political-administrative action and procurement stations. In other words, you determine the swamp, you find yourself in the quicksand. In this way, all operators, from officials of the public administration to the complex world of the enterprise, to professionals, technicians and consultants, are not given knowledge of the rules of the game and it is clear that this risks to encourage the drift of corruption. We Conservatives and Reformists would also like to point out another issue: the substantial survival of the races to the maximum decrease, which in government announcements had to go to the attic. However, Article 95 sets out a different scenario: the text provides that the lower price criterion for works of up to EUR 1 million, i.e. the majority of cases, may still be used: about eight out of ten contracts. But it is right here, in this range of amounts, that the corruptive phenomena that, always in the Government's intentions, they would like to fight, are statistically nested. But the true mocking norm is found in Article 77 of the new law, relating to the powers of the National Anti-Corruption Authority (NAAC). In procurement procedures with the most economically advantageous tender criterion, the evaluation of the best proposal is entrusted to a jury composed of experts in the field. In order to ensure maximum transparency in this process, Commissioners will be drawn by lot from a special list drawn up by the DAC. This rule, however, applies only to tenders with amounts exceeding the Community thresholds, i.e. EUR 5.2 million. If this figure is not exceeded, or if contracts do not have particular complexity, the contracting station may appoint components within the contracting station, in accordance with the rotation principle. In short, the commissioners will be chosen by the same body that awards the contract. Result: 95% of contracts will be awarded exactly as before or worse than before, with less transparency and greater risk of falling into corruption. We Senators of the Conservative and Reformist Group would like to make our own assessments of the president of the National Judicial Association, Dr. Davigo, who in several interviews points out that the National Anti-Corruption Authority is not able, nor can it replace the ordinary judiciary. To argue that it is the National Anti-corruption Authority that has to fight the corruptive phenomenon means, at best, undermining a power that DAC cannot have, while in most cases it is a symptom of constitutional ignorance. Finally, I would like to refer to the reform of the public administration that the Government so much as a Copernican revolution, but that risks being just a mirror for the lark. In this regard, it is sufficient to note that the Government, as has already happened years ago with the abolition of the Chorus, provides for the abolition of municipal secretaries, selected at the outcome of a long and complex competition process, which are, indeed, the guarantors of legality and those responsible for anti-corruption in all local authorities. It is for these servants of the State to ensure compliance, and not only the legality, of administrative action, and it is their task to make the administrative procedure more effective and efficient, reducing to a minimum the risk of defects of illegality of acts. We therefore wonder how the decision to remove the figure and the role of municipal secretaries can be consistent with an effective fight against corruption. As I conclude, Madam President, we Conservatives and Reformists strongly call for a reconnaissance of the work carried out so far by the DAC, referring to Parliament in order to formulate the appropriate regulatory and regulatory solutions to remove any element of uncertainty regarding the Authority's powers. We also call for the necessary changes to the new procurement code following the outcome of the cognitive activities planned at the parliamentary committees for the deepening, correction and implementation of Legislative Decree no. 50 of 2016. Finally, but not least in terms of importance, we ask the Government to assess whether, in order to combat illegality and corruption effectively, it is not appropriate to re-introduce the figure of municipal secretaries, redefining their role and specifying their functions and responsibilities. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u72	I declare the debate open. Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u73	Madam President, we come to discuss the motions for resolutions on anti-corruption initiatives in large public works at the end of an electoral round which confirmed that the priorities of Italian citizens are not the great, extraordinary and ghostly works typical of politics that has governed us to date. It is very important, for example, what has happened in the city of Rome and what the citizens have said. It is a city in constant emergency, in which there has been a constant attempt to talk about the Olympics, wondering whether or not to organize them: the candidate of the PD has done it continuously and the whole press has followed it cheerfully, although it is evident to anyone who lives in this city that the real problem is not the Olympics and that there are many other problems that need to be faced. The problem is not these great works. The citizens of Rome feel this way, as the electoral result shows, and we can only be satisfied with the task they have given us, with a courageous choice, in which the reasonings about the great works end in second order and are second level with respect to the things we must do every day. The motion before us allows us to talk once again about the great works and what we think of them, in case it is not yet clear. We can take the example of the United States of America, although the situation is completely different: we know that Obama has injected US$840 billion into the economy for public works, to implement a Keynesian policy aimed at restarting the economy. The system in the United States, however, is completely different from ours and in fact there has been a great efficiency and a great spending capacity, since at the end of 2010, in just under two years since the launch of the initiative, 13 percent of the works have been completed. By the end of 2011, this percentage had risen to 35% and, over five years, 97% of the funds had actually been spent. What's going on in Italy? In Italy we have a very interesting review of the great works: the works provided for in the famous objective law have been completed for 8.3% of the total. Let us remember that the objective law was intended by that great man and great minister of the Berlusconi government, who was Minister Lunardi. We all know that many of the works provided for in the objective law include many galleries, strangely designed by the Rocksoil company of Minister Lunardi himself. Many works - 57 percent - are still in the design phase and if we read the Tenth Report on the state of implementation of the target law, we realize slowness and delays. As for the Olympic Games, remember that the stadiums built in Italy on the occasion of the 1990 World Football Championship cost 84 percent more than expected and some achievements have already been demolished, for example the Stadium of the Alps in Turin. Not to mention the 2009 Swimming World Championships and that great work that was the swimming pool of Calatrava: along the motorway Rome-Naples you can see the opera, which is still in those conditions. We must also consider the cost of inefficiency and corruption. Again in the United States, Obama has allocated $305 million to finance the activities of a supervisory body in this area. It is a small sum, but it has led to effective action, perhaps because in the United States those who corrupt end up in jail and perhaps because, as the President of the National Judicial Association said, in the United States white-collar crimes are actually being prosecuted. Perhaps we should start from there, from hitting white collar crimes and also begin to understand everything that happens: I am thinking, for example, of the introduction of legislation that establishes the provoking agent and whistleblowing, ensuring protection to those who report the evil. It seems to me that these issues have been discussed in this House when we put forward these proposals which the majority did not accept. We read of continuous judicial investigations: for example, in the context of the maxi-quest called System, the Florence Public Prosecutor has investigated 47 people, accused of illegally managing contracts related to the Expo, the Third Pass, high-speed routes, the metro 4 and 5 of Milan and, of course, the Salerno-Reggio Calabria, work that always begins and never ends, even if it seems to me it has been inaugurated many times. We do not know exactly what the cost of corruption is, but we know that the order of magnitude is tens of billions. But the cost of corruption is not only the economic cost, but also the cost of inefficiency, because it also produces that. In fact, there are two aspects that go hand in hand: inefficiency and corruption go hand in hand. Not to mention the MOSE. In 1989 the estimated cost was EUR 3.2 billion; in 2001 it was EUR 3.7 billion; in 2013 it was EUR 5 billion; in 2014 it was EUR 5.2 billion and there is still EUR 226 million to spend. We had to complete the work in 2016 and we arrive to 2018, when will we finish? We're never gonna finish? The costs have risen, of arrests there are as many as you want and so also the judicial investigations. We have many examples of people in various ways involved, such as the former Mayor of Venice, accused of illicit financing, the former president of the Veneto Region Galan, accused of corruption, the regional city council member to infrastructure in 2000 Chisso, accused of corruption. Representatives of PD and then PdL, all together. Strangely enough, when it comes to doing these things, we all find ourselves together. Everyone's been involved a little bit. Perhaps this is the real problem: when we have to make the real contrast to corruption, we have to participate. In this case it doesn't count to win but to participate, because maybe something then falls into your pocket. For God's sake, it can happen, but you should be intellectually honest. If you're intellectually honest, you're honest in other things too. It is a problem of intellectual honesty. When you're called to represent people, you have to feel inside you the whole of those people who say: do our good. This should be done, but this does not happen. We tried, as a 5 Star Movement, to say things. We have produced a summary document, called the Charter of Honesty, which included the so-called Daspus for the corrupt, the undercover agents, the interruption of the prescription at the end of the first degree, the lowering of the thresholds for financial offences of evasion, the strengthening of the crime of autocycling, the raising of the penalties for the vote of mafia political exchange, the stop to corruption in public procurement, the abolition of the financing of parties, the revision of the third sector, and the class action. We're always arguing about this. We argue in the streets, constantly, and then we go and discuss the so-called constitutional reform. It doesn't seem to have anything to do with it. It has to do with when we see that power is centralized in the hands of the Presidency of the Council which, when there is only one opinion against it, can invoke the solution of the problem to itself. Why do you know that we have approved this too, dear citizens who are outside these classrooms? If there is an opinion against a work, the Presidency of the Council can be used, which can decide to overcome the opinion given, for example, by a Superintendence. In this way, we completely diminish everything and concentrate everything in the hands of the Presidency of the Council. Once again, that crap of constitutional reform wants to completely centralize power. However, by bringing power closer together, what has happened with the Red Tempa scandal, what has happened with oil and banks. So, we can't trust you at all. We must not think that the great works in this country must not be done at all; Maybe someone will have to do it, but we need to see what the economic and financial plans are to make sure that the money is spent well. We have tabled a bill, in which we ask to take all the works of the former objective law and to be able to examine its economic and financial plans to understand if they really serve: if you need the TAV, if you need the third pass, if you need everything you have planned. We would probably find that these works do not serve, that served the handbag of that gentleman "the economy turns with you": but in that handbag there is money! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So we have to do the things we need and people need the normal things, they need the little works that make you live better, not the great works! What are those great works for? Madam President, our motion once again wants to put this very thing at the centre: it wants to put the collective interest, the interest of people at the centre and not the interest of the usual powerful. They've already had, if they leave these usual powerful men. Let's give something to the people who need the state to intervene for them! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u74	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u75	Madam President, I have asked to speak on this subject in a series of motions which in themselves concern anti-corruption initiatives in public procurement and large-scale public works, since in at least a couple of these motions there is specific reference, although perhaps accidental, to the MOSE affair and to the new Venice Consortium. The MOSE is a so-called great work and would be coming to a conclusion, according to the latest official statements that provide for the completion of the work in 2018. It is a great work designed to defend Venice from exceptional high waters, even if it should be remembered in this area that the ordinary high waters will not be blocked at all, in the sense that the central area, for example St. Mark's Square and all the nearby historical center, at 80 centimeters it already goes under and will continue to go under the water, because the MOSE, even if it came into operation, would close its gates beyond 110 centimeters. The MOSE solution is part of the relationship that Venice has with the high waters that inundate it periodically, and this phenomenon has assumed national and international importance after the catastrophic tide of November 1966 that had completely submerged Venice and the other lagoon towns with a tide of 194 centimeters on the average level of the sea. The MOSE system, as I said, has been called "great work," even if, more than great work, I would call it a large manger, because it generates bribes, illicit funding for the whole, or almost all, of Venetian society, including cultural associations, parties, patriarchy. It was certainly a great criminal manger with regard to the events of the past, as demonstrated by the investigations, trials and many convictions already pronounced by the judiciary; and it is still a great manger. I think it is necessary for politics to make sure that it does not become a manger with criminal modalities, as it risks, among other things, I say accidenter, to reveal to us and to show us also the question of the great ships from cruise that continue to pass inside the basin of San Marco. Over the years the history of the MOSE and the Consorzio Venezia Nuova has been characterized by numerous and authoritative criticisms, all instrumentally ignored for a sort of self-referentiality of the Magistrate to the waters of Venice and the concessionaire Consorzio Venezia Nuova, a single concessionaire, legal institute banned by the European Union and which still has a life only here in Italy. The Magistrate to the waters and the Consorzio Venezia new never wanted to seriously relate to any technical-scientific comparison on the merit of the critical arguments raised. With the result that to date, almost completed, there remain serious doubts about its functionality and safety. It is only two days ago the alarm launched by one of the major experts, of the major hydraulic authorities of the scientific world, Professor D'Alpaos of the University of Padua, according to which the works of the MOSE have transformed the lagoon and changed the currents increasing the speed of water and erosion, sometimes modifying the direction of the tides, so much to make him say, with reference to the MOSE: "work that offends human intelligence". But beyond these considerations, it must be emphasized that, still recently, very recent studies of the CNR have emphasized that significant phenomena of subsidenza are happening in correspondence of the works placed to the mouths of port, that they could reflect of the differential failings with serious repercussions on the functionality of the entire group of paratoia. The only two public scientific interventions on this work have both expressed negative views. When the opinion on the environmental impact assessment (EIA) was issued in December 1998, a negative opinion was expressly mentioned, confirming the previous negative opinion issued by the Higher Council of Public Works. In spite of these contrary opinions, it has been carried out as if nothing had happened, in the sense that what we call historical reconstruction is still missing and, above all, it has not been felt the need to verify the various criminal moments of corruption that have intersected the history of MOSE in all the decision-making phases, in particular by ascertaining - as was necessary - whether the corruptions were not only useful to accumulate black funds for financial offences, but also indispensable for the advancement of the various phases of a project of unproved effectiveness and intrinsic instability. This is probably not the right place to go down too much in detail and technique. I therefore reserve the right to submit a detailed question in this respect which takes account of the improper nature of the project. But we must remember a series of criticalities: that the custody of the design and execution of the works took place in private negotiation, without competition and without technical and economic comparison between various and possible solutions. The works currently being carried out are substantially different from the original ones of the feasibility study approved in 1982 by the Higher Council of Public Works for the drastic reduction of fixed shrinkage, thus not guaranteeing the best hydraulic regime. Political authorisations did not take into account - as I said - the negative opinions on the 1990 draft budget of the Higher Council for Public Works and the EIA Committee of the Ministry of the Environment. In addition, the complementary works, which were rejected in the draft budget in 1990 and were not included in the 1994 preliminary draft, were added to the final draft of 2002 and carried out without the approval of the General Assembly of the Higher Council of Public Works. Then the yards have started without having first implemented the preliminary experiments of increase of the hydraulic resistances to the mouths of port (fixed restrings), demanded from the Municipality of Venice and the "Comitone." A difficult compatibility between the MOSE system and the development of the Venetian portualità is confirmed. There is no precaution towards eustatic levels, even in view of the Paris Conference on Climate Change. In addition, short-term and long-term soil and superstructures have effects on the safety and functionality of the system throughout its operational life. At this point you should ask what to do, because certainly a lot of money has been spent, but still many more will have to be spent. If we continue to take into account the most recent studies and investigations, the perplexities can only increase. I remember, for example, that in the matter of structural criticality and dynamic behavior of the work, all doubts should be eliminated, considering that very recently, in a study carried out by the French company Principia R.D., entrusted by the City of Venice, it was shown that the paratoia of the MOSE have resonance phenomena, that is, they are unstable dynamically, especially in cases of rough sea. Moreover, given that the financial resources are very large, and even more so when the MOSE comes into operation, in order to ensure the management and ordinary maintenance of the system, I believe that a technical, scientific, independent and independent verification must be done and it is still possible to do so. We consider that the resources needed for the MOSE, for the management and the maintenance every year will be between 80 and 100 million euros. Who will and will be able to guarantee these figures? Then, for the references contained in the motion illustrated and from which - I must give notice - at least in part the colleague, Senator Filippi, has differentiated, it must be said that a more careful evaluation must be made with particular regard to the dynamic behavior of the gates, of the hydraulic resistances to the mouths of port, of the eustatic levels and of the phenomena of resonance. Obviously a more concise proposal will be formulated in the hope that, by the Senate and in particular by the Government, a consensus can be given to try to eliminate these doubts beforehand and urgently. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a whole range of issues are dealt with in the six motions tabled, to which a particular response will shortly be given. From the general point of view, however, they appear to be a kind of acceptance, especially in memory of what, from the point of view of anti-corruption measures and for transparency in major works and public works, has already been carried out by the Government. In particular, given that this House has made a decisive contribution to it, I would like to remind you - and this has already been done, but I would like to stress this very gladly - that the new procurement code, which is considered to be of excellent quality and of such a quality as to be considered one of the most significant reforms of this parliamentary term. To give a more precise answer to a number of objections, but also to proposals that have been raised, I would like to remind you that the DAC already has powers and functions that the code collects and regulates with some precision: in particular for the qualification of the contracting stations, for the purchasing power stations, in the management and the government of the national database of public contracts and of the computer record, as well as for the whole part concerning administrative and pecuniary sanctions against both those who refuse or omit without justified reason to provide the information provided, both economic operators who do not comply with the request of the contracting authority or the contracting entity. And I only mark a significant, but not definitive, part of the activities that DAC carries out. I would like to recall that the Government is committed to improving the quality of the rules, to redesigning the decision-making and implementation processes of public works, and not just in the name of transparency and the fight against corruption - just look at the outcome of public works in Italy, and I gladly remember it in this House - making the data already mentioned worse when the Senate discussed the procurement code at first reading - if I remember correctly. Then we calculated - we had as reference data those of 2011 - that a public work weighing more than 100 million euros needed eleven and a half years for its realization. The data compiled later, at the end of 2014, tell us that the same public work, with a weight of more than 100 million euros, requires fourteen years and a few months. Therefore the code of contracts, the laws of kit and the decrees that are in execution are set the objective to give not only the greatest possible transparency to the realization of a public work, drawing it out from the risk of the corruptive event, but also the certainty of beginning and end of its works, especially when it has an important value. In response to a request from Senators Crosio and Liuzzi, I also recall that the law provides for a corrective action, from the entry into force to a year of a measure decidedly important for the many reasons I have mentioned before, which allows perimeter of the activity of the code, bringing improvements and amendments. Before arriving at the more particular issue of the MOSE, I would like to remind you that the code itself provides both a project review and, as regards the relationship between the maximum decrease and races held according to different criteria, a much more balanced relationship. In fact, it is true, Senator Liuzzi, that, for works weighing less than one million euros, it remains as the main road, and not as the main road, that of the maximum decrease. But it is equally true that those are works that have an important numerical weight. At the level of economic quality, however, they have a much lower weight than those of more than one million value. In concrete terms, the MOSE is a public work carried out, to date, up to about 85 percent of the work that had been planned. We know what the objectives and objectives are. The Consorzio Venezia nuova, as a result of the corruptive facts emerged and of undue conditioning of the activity and the administrative action, was commissariat with measure of the prefect of Rome on 1 December 2014. The intervention was of the prefect, the request was of ANAC to confirm the firm will of the Government to adopt resolute measures to protect the legality. The three Commissioners appointed were immediately assigned all the powers and functions of the corporate management bodies with regard to the complete execution of the concession, in addition to functions of technical-scientific verification and accounting of the MOSE project in its integrity; a special task which - as stated by the President of the NAC Canton - pursues a twofold objective: first of all to prevent the necessary investigations of the judiciary on the illicit facts from delaying or preventing the conclusion of public works and, secondly, to prevent the need for the execution of the contract and the concession from leading to the allocation of an indirect advantage for the author of the wrongdoing who could, in fact, be in a position to achieve a profit from his criminal activity. Some important decisions, in fact, have been taken on the so-called jack-up, sophisticated machinery for the removal of the gates to allow assembly and maintenance or, following specific administrative and accounting verification, at the Commissamento della Comar, a consortium company whose work appeared rather opaque. One of the other issues that links at least a couple of the motions presented concerns the work of the Coordination Committee for the High Monitoring of Large Works at the Ministry of the Interior. This body - I should like to point out this point - carries out an anti-mafia prevention activity for the most important works for the country, already included in the plan for strategic infrastructures. The body operates, in particular, through the issuance of guidelines of general value and through prescriptions of protocols of legality anti-mafia then evaluated by the Committee itself. I would add that the MOSE infrastructure of Venice, already fully falling, like other works of the same nature, within the scope of the guidelines dictated by the Committee that I mentioned before, is the subject of specific attention by the same Committee especially since last February, when the prefecture of Venice communicated the availability, manifested by the Interregional Provveditorato for the public works of Veneto, Trentino-Alto Adige and Friuli-Venezia Giulia and by the Consortium of Venice, respectively new contracting station and concessionaire of the work, to conclude a protocol of legality on the basis of the standard model contained in the resolution CIPE n. 62 of 2015. In this regard, the Committee, also in view of the Consorzio's commission, promptly examined the matter and at its meeting on 16 March last, it represented the need for the conclusion of the protocol of legality in the forms defined by the standard model, regardless of the state of progress of the work. In fact, with the decree of the prefect of Rome of 22 January last, it is arranged the integration of the measures already adopted, with express forecast that the extraordinary directors - I read - are obliged to determine in advance and to set aside in a special fund until the outcome of the judgements in criminal court the profits achieved altogether in execution of the convention stipulated on 4 October 1991 and successive additional and implementing acts, in them including the profits belonging to the consorted enterprises. In other words, the provision of the profit resulting from the conclusion of contracts should also be extended to the profits achieved by the consortium undertakings, in fact putting in place a precautionary measure in the direction of the - I read - criminalisation of the undertakings involved in the corrupting system. Finally, I would like to point out that, with regard to the corruptive phenomena connected with the work, the Government has immediately sided with the judiciary to continue its action in the field of investigation, verification, contrast and repression of conduct contrary to legality. The criminal trial is in progress at the collegial tribunal of Venice and has a schedule of hearings already set for the current year. On the basis of what has been communicated by the Ministry of Justice, the positions relating to the responsibilities of legal persons remain to be defined, of which the main companies participating in the Consorzio Venezia new - I remember that it is a commissioner - must answer in addition to the Consortium itself. It has been requested and - I stress - obtained the seizure of the assets borne by some of them. Finally, the use of the Agency's revenue database was granted. On the point of strengthening the law on conflict of interest, it is useful to point out that government action has always been to support and encourage draft laws of parliamentary initiative. I note, in fact, that the House has approved the draft law on conflict of interest currently being examined by the First Senate Commission. Madam President, on the merits of the individual motions presented, the Government's opinion is against motion 293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti. I would point out, however, that in relation to this motion, which was first presented, point 7, is decidedly accepted by the Government. The opinion was in favour of the remaining motions. I remember that they are No. 584, of Senator Filippi and others; No. 585, of Senator Crosio and others; No. 588, of Senator Uras and others; No. 596, of Senator Barani and others. One reason is common to all these motions, despite the diversity of content: the work - as I recall, at 85% to the present day - must be carried out to the full. This is the common point that connects them, over three other significant points readable within the articulated. Finally, on motion 599, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, the Government shares, expresses its appreciation and therefore its favourable opinion on points 2 and 4, but not on the remaining points, i.e. points 1) and 3). [[Applause from the PD Group and the Roman Senator).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u77	I ask Senator Cappelletti and Senator Bonfrisco if they intend to reformulate their motions, keeping the points on which there is the favorable opinion of the Government and expunging the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u78	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u79	Madam President, just for the sake of clarity, I would like to ask Deputy Minister Nencini to be able to specify what point he calls (1): is this the one that commits the Government to carry out a reconnaissance of the activity carried out so far by the National Anti-Corruption Authority? Mr Nencini, Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Yeah, that's exactly it. BONFRISCO (CoR). I am available and I welcome the possibility of allowing the Government to accept our motion by abandoning point 3, if I understand correctly. Is that so, Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u80	To clarify, Deputy Minister, you said earlier that the Government accepts points 2) and 4) of this motion, but not points (1) and (3). Mr Nencini, Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. That's right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you accept the proposal as formulated, Senator Bonfrisco? BONFRISCO (CoR). Yes, President, I am in favour of the changes proposed by the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u83	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, the motions before us today all have a common thread, that is, how to be able to free our country from corruptive phenomena that often, precisely in the great public works, nest and damage it and bring to the fore issues of great importance for the development of the territory. And above all, the mass media pressure causes our citizens to liquidate everything as the umpteenth opportunity lost by our country to equip us with infrastructure and not fall into the trap of corruption. For over twenty years, if not since the very early 1990s, we have been witnessing - and also on this occasion - media demonstrations around judicial events such as those that go under the name of Tangentopoli. And the terms "corruption" and "public contracts" are united - it is a great pity for our country - because they are intertwined in the common perception and end up being cleared, then, with a summary judgment, where often - as has happened on many occasions - lead to a subsequent disappointment: the announcements of great scandals and elements of corruption foreseen by the investigations, in the end, concluded the path of the various debates and trials, are reduced to very little. The citizen, then, has double damage from the whole thing. We also approve the motions in question in the light of an important and powerful work carried out by the Parliamentary Assemblies in the context of the amendment of the Procurement Code. I recall here a sentence by Carlo Cattaneo - already mentioned - which, for me, sums up very well the value of the work done by Parliament, which must always be placed in its real context. In past times, when great scandals animated the civil and political life of our country, Carlo Cattaneo had to write that every change of laws, that is not a real improvement, is a damage, because it suspends the rapid course of transactions, spreads a universal doubt, renders insufficient all practical knowledge and compels men to rethink all their judgments and calculations. Therefore, in the light of the continuous changes in the legal provisions, in some cases also of entire disciplinary areas of the public administration, of which the new code of public contracts is an example, those words still appear current and give us the measure of how the cited code, quickly entered into force on the same day of the publication, without the forecast of any period of vacacatio laws, makes legal certainty a chimera and inevitably increases the litigation, allowing the increase of the corruptive phenomenon to the detriment of the administrators of the public thing. This is how an incorrect written law, which fails to predict all that it must be able to foresee in its application, even the transitory part, instead of dissipating the clouds of corruption ends up feeding corruptive phenomena. Italians know well the list of the great works that have remained unfinished in our country, such as the facts of corruption in public procurement, of which Mafia Capitale is only the last chapter. It is completely useless to talk about those works that, considered necessary for development, were programmed with reasonable times of realization and costs, but that, after decades, are unfinished monuments to the waste of public money and corruption, despite the rules to prevent the costs of realization rising to infinity, fueling corruption and criminal phenomena. We consider that most of the corruptive phenomena are nested in the races to the maximum decrease, which in theory should not have been regulated in the new code of contracts. In reality, Article 95 sets out a different scenario. The text provides that the lower price criterion for works of up to EUR 1 million may still be used, i.e. the majority of public contracts (eight out of ten contracts concern works below that amount). Article 77 of the new law gives the National Anti-Corruption Authority the task of drawing up a special list of Commissioners who will have to be drawn by lot if the tender has amounts that exceed the Community thresholds, i.e. EUR 5.2 million. Where this figure is not exceeded or where contracts are not of particular complexity, the contracting authority may appoint components within the contracting authority, in accordance with the principle of rotation. Commissioners will therefore be chosen by the same body that awards the contract. This will mean that the vast majority of contracts will be awarded exactly as before, or perhaps worse than before, and with less transparency. I consider that the National Anti-Corruption Authority - as many expressions of the judiciary have already pointed out on several occasions - is unable and cannot replace the ordinary judiciary, whose task is defined by the Constitution itself, to argue that it is the National Anti-Corruption Authority that must fight corruption at best is a dream or millantare a power that it does not have. That's why we asked the government to undertake a reconnaissance of the activity. The impression we have is that we carry on the National Anti-Corruption Authority a whole series of tasks and expectations, also from the political point of view, that the Authority itself is not, cannot and will not be able to support. It is important that the real process of combating corruption belongs to all institutions and, therefore, that action can be evaluated, and not to judge it, but to share it with the parliamentary committees, so as to accompany this path that truly embodies itself in the living fabric of the institutions, so that there may be a particular sharing. That is why we have asked the Government to set this mechanism in motion, which allows us - in our opinion - to really strengthen all those acts to guarantee the full protection of the public interest, which, in addition to being a technical fact, is a cultural fact, which we need so much. I thank Deputy Minister Nencini for having accepted 50% of our proposals. We hope to share even more in the future. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u84	He asked the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Nencini, to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u85	Madam President, a new wording of motion No 584 was tabled at the first signature of Senator Filippi. To the first point of the provisional part, it is proposed to add the following words: The Government welcomes this reformulation and expresses a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u86	Therefore, the Government's favourable opinion on motion 584 remains unchanged on text 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u89	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, I will speak very briefly in conjunction with what has already been said in the general debate to highlight two aspects which I consider to be important. First of all we have legitimate expectations about the work of the National Anti-corruption Authority, in particular regarding the guidelines to be issued, because those already adopted have not yet completed the framework of the implementing measures and is still waiting for the adoption of the same implementing decrees that will have to compose the mosaic of the new soft law of application of the current discipline. In an explanation of vote I would like to make two points, after listening with great interest to Mr Cioffi's passionate speech, which I agree with in its essence and which gives me the opportunity to stress the following. As for public works considered to be more or less large - a definition that I think is quite inappropriate - in our country, there are incredible examples of virtuosity coming from political-administrative processes initiated in local authorities. In my humble opinion, these are very important examples for this country in which, as we have all pointed out, the issue of corruption in public works procurement has been and continues to be a scourge; even if we are supporting great efforts to eradicate it, it has been something really worrying. However, there have been very important situations in our country. I say this not for being one of the first protagonists, but for being able to live directly on the territory examples of this kind. I remember quietly to myself and to the Assembly with great and deep pride that on a work planned in objective law, and therefore strategic, like accessibility to the highway 38, the same territory became protagonist in the context of a work that was to be done by ANAS and therefore by the State, making programming and sharing in financing. These works are currently being carried out (in this case there are two lots) for 560 million euros which - let us beg you - are proceeding quickly, with all the rules of the case. This is an extraordinary example in which I believe that politics, the administrations (i.e. the local authority) and the enterprises have really synthesized by sharing in the financing: 78 municipalities of a Province have self-taxed to co-finance a work of the State. This is an extraordinary thing that - in my opinion - Mr Vice-Minister - and you know very well what I am talking about - we can also take outside national borders. It's very important. In our country we always have the bad habit of accentuating what doesn't work - it's a lot, and we know it - but something good is definitely there. And in this case, being also a nostalgic of the old policy done well, I cannot fail to recall a happy intuition contained in an editorial of Monday, July 20, 1987 by Indro Montanelli, who then wrote something fantastic telling the government, at the cost of making a fool of the Constitution, to give the people immediately the money for the reconstruction of Valtellina after the tragedy of July 1987; to give them immediately to those people, because he offered the guarantee not to steal them as, in times not suspicious, guaranteed the Friulians. It is possible that a territory can give certain guarantees, and the territories have given it. I remind myself and all my colleagues that Law No 102 of 2 May 1990 (so-called Valtellina Law) generated resources of 1,000 billion of the old lire. The works were planned, designed, realized, tested and lasted twenty years. They were done with great difficulty, even techniques. I know that I break through an open door with Senator Cioffi, because those who had to design certain works of hydraulic reimation following that catastrophe did not find them written on the notebook of public works. On the contrary, it has been schooled with regard to certain hydraulic regulations and innovative solutions. I don't want to be poisonous, but I want to say that parts of our territory deliver to the history of this country virtuosity and ability to plan and realize and other parts of the territory may still exist, but they will have all our solidarity and our contribution in order to achieve the added value that has been demonstrated in the realization of certain works in our country. Thanking the Government for accepting our motion, which is in a certain sense the summary of what I said, I would like to stress that it is reductive to take the opportunity offered by this debate to have a stereotyped vision of public works. In this country there are political, administrative and entrepreneurial possibilities and capacities that stimulate and reassure us that we can continue to do what we are able to do. I am sorry that someone might think of turning the discussion of the motions under discussion into a pretext for making considerations about the planning of public works, since - in my opinion - this is not the right place or, at least, it is not the right time. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u90	I would like to refer to the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u93	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that, in order to carry out their duties freely, Members of Parliament enjoy special guarantees, in accordance with Article 68 of the Constitution. I am referring to the so-called parliamentary immunity, which includes the unmistakableness of the opinions expressed and the votes given and the inviolability. The absence of a mandate is also a freedom granted to the Member of Parliament to act as a representative of the nation. We also know that, over time, the Houses' habit of denying permission to proceed with their members has fueled a deep distrust of the citizens and transformed in their eyes an ancient principle of parliamentary democracy into a caste privilege. I am part of those citizens who fight for rights not to become privileges and today, thanks to institutional experience, I have a greater awareness of how important it is to combat abuse, but at the same time to defend the principle. After all, I have lived in my own skin what it can mean to do politics with someone who claims you are bound by his decisions because, in his opinion, it is contrary to Article 67 of the Constitution. I have made this premise in order to address a topical issue. In a political force that makes the fight against caste its flag there is now the habit of putting the political seats of the parliamentarians in the homes of people who, at the indisputable judgment of the parliamentarians, have suffered an injunction of unjust eviction. In other words, the guarantee of the inviolability of the Member's domicile is used to protect a tenant and thus to "capture" a judge's decision. A justice to Zorro, in which the parliamentarians actually act above the law, offering protection ad personam. It doesn't matter if the person in question is part of the clan - perhaps an activist of the movement - or is an ordinary citizen, whether his story is worthy of our full solidarity, as in the case of a family of Scandicci, or not. In any case, the right of a person to reappropriate the property, recognized by the judge in the name of his own arbitrary judgment, and in favour of propaganda aimed at making believe that there are protectors in the country, ready to defend those who feel persecuted by justice, by the system, by Equitalia. But is this not a clear example of the abuse of the constitutional guarantee in question and, as such, a real manifestation of caste privilege, which sees the Member arrogating himself the right, not only not to respect a sentence, but even to prevent it from being enforced? What would such enemies of the caste say if such an escapism were used by a Member of another political force? Wouldn't they say they're helping friends? Wouldn't they even talk about mafia behavior? Are there no other ways of defending a citizen, perhaps by resorting to that civil disobedience, which certainly does not shield itself from its parliamentary being, but which stimulates consciences and attracts public attention? [[Call the president back.]] I therefore wonder, in conclusion, whether it is not appropriate to pay more attention to this abnormal use of inviolability of the domicile, enshrined in Article 68 of the Constitution, because the right to the house must be guaranteed, but not with the occupations, whether in Casa Pound style or in 5 star parliamentary style. The right to the home must be dealt with above all by those who govern the territories: the local administrations have the duty to respond to this requirement, respecting the legality and social justice. Rome is definitely a good gym to demonstrate how to solve the problem of the right to the home.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u96	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Madam President, in Trapani, the only doctor who does not object is to retire and the voluntary termination of pregnancy is suspended. The conscientious objection indicates the possibility of refusing to comply with a duty imposed by the legal order, by those who believe the effects that would result from compliance contrary to their ethical, moral or religious convictions. The one who makes this choice is called a conscientious objector. The objector identifies voluntary termination of pregnancy as the murder of a child and, therefore, is entitled not to practice abortion: on this I agree. Abortion, however, is one of the most difficult choices a woman can make. It is not important how much we are convinced: the interruption is always a decision not easy and does not lack emotional and càpita consequences that, made this choice, the woman discovers that in her city, if not even in her Region, doctors who should help her to take this difficult path refuse to intervene, as conscientious objectors. It is true that some of these conscientious objections are due to moral issues, and therefore it is entirely legitimate, but it is also true that another part is due to less ethical reasons, such as hospital careers. We come to the impossibility of legally abortion in Trapani, because of the retirement of the only doctor not objector. I believe that this is a public service interruption by the hospital company, which should ensure the implementation of Law No 194 of 1978, passed 38 years ago as a law of the State. Isn't it scandalous, of course, knowing for a long time that the doctor who didn't object would retire, that the health department didn't take any steps to replace him? This, in the end, becomes yet another violence against women and what is worse is that it is institutional violence. Unfortunately, also the report of the Ministry of Health considered that the numbers of the objectors are all in all acceptable. How can we say this when out of 94 hospitals with obstetrics and gynecology departments only 62 carry out voluntary pregnancy interruptions? Is it normal that there are regions with more than 93 percent objectors? Is this an acceptable value? Have voluntary terminations of pregnancy decreased by chance? Will it not be that there have been more illegal abortions or attempts that then turned to hospital facilities to stop the bleeding? It is for all these reasons that we have already presented in 2013 the bill No 923, assigned to the Senate Justice and Health Commissions, in which it is asked that at least 70 percent of the staff in service be not objector of conscience. Until proven otherwise, in fact, ours is the health service of a secular state. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u99	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make you part of a story that has involved me. It's a moving and challenging story, even just telling it. On May 28th, I received a letter from a notary from Bologna informing me that I had been appointed the sole heir to a 64-year-old gentleman who, a few months earlier, wrote by his fist: "I leave all my property, immobile and mobile, to Dr. Cattaneo, a senator for life, so that he may destine them, as he thinks best, to scientific research." With these words I was opened to the life of a gentleman I did not know: Dr Franco Fiorini, a lord of Molinella, in the province of Bologna. By his lawyer in recent days I have been aware that Dr. Franco Fiorini has been suffering from polio since he was 9 years old, a disease that had caused him serious walking problems. Despite this, thanks to his affection and the protection of his parents, he had managed to graduate and also acquire a managerial position in a company in his area. However, he led a rather lonely life, precisely by his choice, as a consequence of this illness. It is striking to think that Franco probably was among the last Italian citizens to become ill with polio, and it is striking to think that it was only a handful of years that made the difference between a vaccine that, given, would have zeroed the risk of disease and a virus that hit him, bringing him to this solitary, thrifty life, but always full of dignity and autonomy. His house is full of books, over 5000. A lot of philosophy books, lots of science books. He was a person who, however, kept his attention and interest in the world. It really hits that a man with polio has decided to think about others, about other diseases. He did not claim a revenge on his illness, but he left this legacy precisely for those who suffer from other diseases and for research in Italy. It also strikes that, in making this gesture, he did not even feel the need to be thanked or to make sure that his legacy ended in good hands. Colleagues, this is an unusual story, of an Italian citizen, of a small country of Italy. It is a story that, however, comes together with that of our great institutions, of Parliament, reminding us, perhaps with a certain poem, that they are an important reference for the citizens and reminding us also how much we have to render accountable to citizens, to people like Franco. Personally, that is what I will do, so I am working in full respect of your will to invest this heritage also of ideals and attention in Italian public research. This is a commitment that I intend to devote together with those of you who believe that science must proceed free of conditioning and effective in achieving the objectives of knowledge and health that we work every day. My gratitude therefore goes to Franco, also on behalf of those young Italian researchers who, still do not know it, but will benefit from his attention to the knowledge and intensity and carelessness of his life. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u100	Thank you, Senator Cattaneo, for bringing the attention and remembrance of such an important person to this House, and for having honored, in my opinion, the choice. Thank you, too, on behalf of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u103	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, socially useful work was born as an active labour policy and is based on participation in initiatives of limited public utility over time for particular subjects. It is an institution born in the 1990s through a protocol on active labour policy and employment. Then there were successive legislative interventions, particularly in 1994, 1996, 1997 and so on. In 2001, therefore, a number of years have passed, interministerial decree No 66 of 2001 established that persons engaged in socially useful work, linked to the functions of administrative and technical assistant in school institutions, could benefit from stabilisation initiatives. So, on the one hand, the socially useful work is something momentary; on the other hand, the government and the parties of the time, we are in 2001, were talking about initiatives aimed at stabilisation through certain procedures. Article 2 of the Ministerial Decree provides that in order to create stable employment - I repeat, stable employment - with the coordination of the competent offices, coordinated and continuous cooperation tasks shall be assigned. It is precisely the antithesis: there is talk of stable employment and co-ordinated and continuous collaboration in 2001, but these people, in 2016, are still Co.co.co. These people who work in the school - several entrances even at the age of thirty - and who were previously socially useful workers, find themselves at the age of 64 (so they will soon retire) with a Co.co.co contract. These people, who currently work as Co.co.co., have an identical job as those who are now employed indefinitely, but have fewer rights: they do not have end-of-relationship treatment; if within the household they have disabled people they cannot take permission, and so on. Therefore, we ask that the government take charge of these workers because it is impossible for them to continue to be Co.co.co. For life. (Senator Puglia exposes a T-shirt with the inscription "I don't want to die Co.co.co.")
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u104	Senator, you don't need that shirt. His words and proposals count, not his shirt.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u107	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, I have asked to speak in order to express with joy in this House the judgment of the Court of Cassation which this morning put an end, at least at this stage, to the long, difficult and problematic question of the recognition of the adoption of the partner's son within same-sex couples. It is a subject which this House had committed and which had arrived in the form of a proposal for a vote, but which had finally been removed from the final text on civil unions. Today the Court of Cassation gives a clear word confirming the judgments that had already been made in Italy. I am thinking of the various judgments of the ordinary courts, the court of appeal of Rome, Turin and Milan, which refer to that of Rome. All these judgments are unique in saying that, in the best interests of the child, the recognition of the legal link with the second mother or father must be recognized. This will have to be done through recourse to a judge, who will have to assess the child's greater interest, exactly as we had foreseen in the Civil Unions Act. There is only one difference between our proposal and that right which the Supreme Court recognizes today: we, in our proposal, had limited the possibility of adopting the partner's son in same-sex couples with civil couples; the judgment of the Supreme Court refers to de facto couples, extending even more the prediction, making a further step forward than what this Parliament had tried to do. Today is a beautiful day of celebration for girls and children who are finally recognized the right to full dignity, legal recognition of their parents and full citizenship within a country that, today, is a little closer to Europe. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-642.ana.u108	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.02 p.m.
