ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 29 September.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u4	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I ask colleagues to take their seats. We wait until the distribution of the cards is over. I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law Nos. 2521 and 2522.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will listen to us at this final stage of verification which, as we do every year, we are doing at this time. It is one of the few moments of truth in which the choices that the Executive takes during the year are, so to speak, "measured" not with the inevitable meter of expectations or, in the case of this Government, with the somewhat tarocked one of rhetoric, but with the meter of the reality of the facts. With this "test of the nine," the programs, the forecast data and the declared objectives are subject to verification in order to ascertain the degree of realization and, therefore, the reliability of those who supported those programs and those forecasts and has identified those objectives. Thus, for the Executive, and unfortunately for the entire country, this autumn is one of the first moments of the great truths. After the summer figure of Banca d'Italia, which has formalized the new record of the public debt, which has reached 2.241 billion, having to surrender to the evidence, only a few days ago the government had to revise downwards the forecasts of the macroeconomic framework expected in the spring DEF. A far from marginal change, despite yesterday's assurances of Minister Padoan, that will force the Government to a reckless maneuver, thus subjecting the country to further sacrifices, in order to respect the European commitments and continue to claim that the public finances are in place and that our economy has set out on the path of recovery. In addition, we are examining the "consummative" data of the state budget - this is even more bitter - which seems far from sufficient to overcome the scepticism about the expectations that the government has repeatedly stated to have about the positive contribution of budgetary choices to the consolidation of public finances. And this is not because of a preliminary attitude of hostility or a sterile desire to oppose at all costs, which certainly does not belong to the Group of Conservatives and Reformists. The negative opinion that we express - and it is not just us who do so - is based on the results of the management of the state accounts, which are certainly insufficient compared to those necessary to achieve the objectives set. It would suffice to see the posts that briefly express the development of these accounts, the differential results, the most sensitive ones for Europe: a deficit at less than 2.6%, a public saving returned to negative after several years and a primary surplus that remains in positive territory, but little, dangerously backing back from about 30 billion in 2014 to little more than 2 billion in 2015. And millions of words have been spent on the primary surplus in this House in the past years. But our opposition to the government document does not stop at the data itself. A more in-depth reading of the accounting findings, based on the composition of active and passive mails, shows that the results of the management, once again, are far from what the Government had proposed. I just consider just a few of the many critical issues. As far as revenue is concerned, the figure for the total amount of resources flowed to the treasury is certainly interesting. The Government emphasizes that the management of the state's revenues has been characterized, in positive, by a total revenue that stands at about 570 billion, or almost 20 billion more than expected. But I don't think we should be so happy. In fact, going to see better the figure of the final revenues is seen as that sign "more" significantly compete tax revenues, an increase of about 2% compared to 2014, and in particular IRPEF and VAT, although it should be considered the accounting changes introduced e.g. through the split payment. This means that the reduction in tax pressure and taxes are not only a distant mirage, but are even denied by the reality of numbers. It is a fact that must be read carefully together with an equally significant figure if not more, namely the weakening of the control activity and, more generally, the easing of the fight against evasion and avoidance. It is sufficient to observe the data on the number of controls to show that in 2015 the total 7.7 billion, with a decrease compared to the previous year of 3.9 percent, were always drawn from the usual known, that is, from who is already known and that with great difficulty survives not only the crisis, but the voracity of this State. This overall situation means that the increase in erarial revenue does not result from the marginal increases in GDP, from the tiring "zerovirgola" with which we have unfortunately become accustomed to measuring the increase in new wealth. Revenue for the treasury grows thanks to the further and umpteenth sacrifice imposed on citizens, businesses and the productive part of the country: however always the usual known, since it is not clear when and how it is possible to enlarge the tax base to personal and sectoral areas, still unknown or only partially known to tax. So let the artisans, the small businesses and the trade of this country be granted; they alone, together with the professionals and the self-employment, will be the only ones to be really taxed, when not taxed. A situation that can be summed up emblematically also by the real estate sector; a map of litmusol of the overall economic situation. Since the Monti Government, governments have inopportunely married the idea, strongly supported by many representatives of this Government and also in Europe, to shift the levy from inputs to consumption and property, convinced that all this favours growth. An idea that as a single result has had the progressive tightening of the different forms of taxation and a revenue that in 2015 reached the highest level of the last five years, reaching more than 37 percent, for a total of almost 44 billion total, or more or less about three points of GDP. All this in the face of persistent evasion and erosion of the tax base, which, according to some estimates, is estimated at around 15% to 30%. On the expenditure side, however, the situation is clearer and, above all, more worrying. The increase in expenditure is indisputable, even if it is considered net of accounting regulations. Its feeble contraction compared to the forecasted increase leaves the field to the tangible and concrete increase regarding 2014 - the expenditure even increases compared to 2014 - in its various aggregates of competence: the total expenditure grows by 3.5 percent; even more the current one net of the expenditure on interest that reaches the more 11.5 percent. Expenditure increases by 11%. In reduction are only the only expenses that would make sense if you really wanted to relaunch the country towards recovery; that capital expenditure that would have a meaning and a great significance for a country that wanted to return to growth. Instead, that has decreased by 42% and, therefore, half of the planned investments have been reduced, which means that without investment it is almost certain that there will be no recovery. President, I conclude my speech in general debate, drawing the attention of this House, but above all of the Government, to carry out a serious analysis and not to continue to tell tales about the accounts of the State that are not those that the president of the Council Matteo Renzi tells; they are much more bitter accounts, and I hope in our explanation of vote that we can bring further elements to share with this Assembly the concern of all, that it can not only be of a political part, but of the entire Italian Parliament towards a Government that is leading us straight towards the economic precipice. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u10	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u11	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that since thirty-one months have passed since the establishment of the Renzi Government, the reading of the 2015 Report and the 2016 Assetment must be done together with the examination of the public accounting documents produced so far. I remember that we are evaluating data on public accounts just revised by ISTAT and the Update Note to the newly published DEF. These figures testify to what has been achieved, based on the numbers and therefore on objective data, from which one cannot ignore to arrive at a judgment on the economic policy of this Government. The three economic manoeuvres, Decree-Law No 66 of April 2014, the Stability Act of December 2014, the Stability Act of December 2015 were implemented in deficit. This led to the issuance of new public bonds and increased the stock of public debt, reaching its historical record of 2,252 billion euros in July 2016. I remember that it was 2.067 billion in February 2014, so 185 billion less since Prime Minister Renzi took office. As regards the financial cover for maneuvers, safeguard clauses on taxes and excise duties have been introduced. Those currently pending are worth a total of 56 billion (15 billion in 2017, 20.5 billion in 2018 and 20.5 billion in 2019). Some one-off measures were introduced in the maneuvers: in 2014, 1,800 million euros of taxes on banks' holdings in the Bank of Italy; in 2015, various substitute taxes; in 2016, more than 4,000 million euros mainly deriving from taxation of Italian capital held abroad. Tax reduction is worth about 47.8 billion. At the same time, however, the increase in taxes, even as a result of spending measures, amounted to 51.6 billion. Final result: Renzi Government increased its taxes in absolute value by 3.8 billion. So I do not understand how we can speak - as reported in the newspapers - of a commitment to reduce taxes that has no comparisons in the history of the country, as we hear almost obsessively repeated by the Government. The celebrated reduction of public expenditure, amounting to a total of about 42 billion, was half the responsibility of the territorial authorities (21 billion to be borne by Regions, Provinces and Municipalities), and for the other half it was borne by the central state. But it is clear that the value of the reduction of spending in the territories has seen a simultaneous decrease in the services rendered to the citizens at local level. Even the reduction in expenditure has been largely overcome by a simultaneous increase of the same, obviously in other voices at the discretion of the Government, that it has been pairs to approximately 77 billion euros in the three years 2014-2016. There is a total increase in expenditure of 35 billion euros related to the measures adopted by the Renzi Government. The dynamics of current expenditure are witnessed by the two bills at our examination: the expenditure rises by a total of 43 billion between 2013 and 2016. These are, therefore, maneuvers carried out by future generations through an increase in the issuance of government bonds and creating, as I said earlier, the historical record of public debt. At the same time, GDP, which has fortunately been in a cyclical phase of global growth since 2013, has taken a positive sign, as the President of the Council says, but has risen less than in other European countries, with a growth of 0.7% in Italy in 2015. GDP rose from 1.620 billion in 2014, to 1.642 billion in 2015. This means that Renzian economic maneuvers have actually had a depressive effect on GDP, which can be calculated in at least 18 billion between 2014 and 2016, if GDP will reach 1,672 billion, as is expected. That being said, the only positive constant in the accounts for the three years under consideration is the decrease in interest expenditure on public debt. Thanks to the action of the ECB led by Draghi the cost of money is at the very least historical, and thanks to the purchase plan of public bonds, government bonds even have negative returns. Despite this policy of spending, public debt continued to grow, reaching an exceptional figure in July 2016 that should really be paid attention: 2.252 billion. A record, therefore, despite the fact that in 2016 there will be 4,683 million lower interest rates. As had registered 5,900 million less in 2015 and 3,228 in 2014. So in three years the Renzi Government has received a cumulative gift that can be quantified in almost 24 billion euros. The government's action has transformed this gift into an increase in spending, in particular the current one. The ECB's action, unfortunately, has favoured what should not have happened, a loosening of the policies of rigour on the Italian public accounts. And as the Central Bank's help comes to an end, the burden on public debt could become truly unsustainable for our country. Interest should be calculated on a debt that has increased by 345 billion since 2011, the year of market speculation on our public debt and spread with German bunds over 500 basis points; the year in which the debt amounted to 1,907 billion. The figure is also alarming as the total amount of debt has grown in less than three years by almost 9%. But it rose by 18 percent compared to the value of the year of the great speculation of 2011. The lack of confidence in the action of this Government has also revealed itself through the gap between foreign investments in Italy and Italian investments abroad: an increase of about 150 billion of Italian investments abroad and a decrease of 28 billion of those abroad in Italy in the three years of Government Renzi. The flow of liquidity from the European Central Bank comes to Italy and is invested abroad, a clear sign of this distrust. Finally, the lack of commitment to the revision of spending makes us even more photographed by this government from cheerful policies. All the numbers show that we are not facing an enlightened Government, but an Executive that adopts bonus policies, in search of a consensus of a very short period. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u12	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u13	Mr President, Senators and Senators, I am happy to speak in the debate on the draft budget settlement law, because, as rapporteur for the 2016 Stability Act, I can say with some satisfaction that what was planned in December 2015 is in principle confirmed by the adjustment. I understand that oppositions cast their hand on slight differences, but overall, what is provided for by the DEF and the law of stability is surely confirmed by the adjustment. And also the DEF presented these days contains some aspects that confirm this. There are measures that I consider to be extremely important, such as the recent delegation law on the fight against poverty, which introduced the income of inclusion: an economic support measure accompanied by personalised services with social and work inclusion. This creates an element of qualification of the law of stability. Let us now come to some methodological considerations, because the previous speeches have perhaps not made any clarity. The draft settlement law under consideration has its main regulatory reference in Article 33 of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance. The rule provides that, by June of each year, the Minister of Economy and Finance shall present to Parliament a bill for settlement, also on the basis of the amount of the assets and liabilities established in the accounts during the financial year concluded on 31 December of the previous year. So what we do is we link different accounting tools together. The function of the settlement bill is the instrument for updating in the middle of the year the budgetary appropriations determined in accordance with the criteria of competence and the cash, with exposure related to missions and programmes. This makes the instrument concrete compared to the past months, during which needs arose that we could not foresee in December of the previous year. In particular, the bill of settlement is functionally connected with the balance sheet statement for the previous year and, in fact, the amount of the assets and liabilities remaining at the beginning of the financial year, which at the time of the preparation and approval of the forecast balance sheets is estimated only to an approximate extent, is defined in Assetment on the basis of the results of the Statement. I would now like to make a few comments on the subject, taking into account that many of the previous interventions have been of a general nature, focusing on the general and overall numbers of the Assetment. On the other hand, I would like to make a few brief comments on seven points which justify the changes introduced. First, the explicit illustrative report that the settlement bill takes into account the financial effects of the entire reform of cooperative credit banks, all urgent provisions for the transfer to third parties of the ILVA group business complexes and all extensions of terms contained in Decree-Law No 210 of 30 December 2015. I would also like to highlight another important point. The net balance to be financed shows a negative change due to a deterioration of 1,337 million euros for administrative acts, but also an improvement of 243 million euros associated precisely with the proposals of the Assetment itself. As a result, compared with the initial forecast of the budget law, the net balance to be financed in the forecast amounts to a value of less than 35,000 million euros, with a deterioration of 3.2 percent. However, this is just below the maximum limit set by the Stability Act for 2016, set at €35,400 million. I would also like to point out that in the settlement proposal there is an improvement in the net balance to be financed, particularly in relation to an important reduction in interest expenditure (well 4.6 billion). This is extremely positive and reflects the update of the profile of interest rates on government bonds, resulting in a reduction in interest expenditure by more than 3.4 billion and a reduction in interest payments on current treasury accounts by one billion. Another aspect that I would like to stress is that the increased expenditure is also linked to the increase in transfers to the Regions, mainly due to the adjustment of the fees of the Regions to the Special Statute and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, in relation to the evolution of the revenue era. In this respect too, the report stresses that these changes are beneficial to local authorities. As regards reductions in tax revenue under the adjustment measure, the figure is 2,129 million for direct taxes and 1,381 million for indirect taxes. In this respect, I would just like to point out, in particular, that we have significant variations in IRES (375 million), income replacement taxes, interest and other capital income of 2.2 billion, while we have reductions in stamp duty and excise duty on natural gas. There are also increasing variations in the replacement taxes of the IRPEF and its additional taxes and payments resulting from membership of the voluntary cooperation procedure. With regard to the extra-tributary revenues, the proposed increase is mainly due to the participation in the management profits of the Bank of Italy and the dividends due to the participating companies, as well as to the proceeds from the rights of use of radio frequencies following the award procedure. I will make a few more comments. The increase in current expenditure is due - as I said before - to the transfer to the Regions of 3,900 million. In particular, we have an increase of 4 billion euros of transfers to local authorities derived from the increased regional spending of more than 2 billion and from the accounting adjustment of the funds for 1.7 billion to cover the needs of the National Health Service. Finally, since some comments have been made on capital expenditure, I would like to point out that the settlement proposal leads to a slight reduction of EUR 74 million which - I must say - bearing in mind the difficulty of allocating and using these resources, is very slight, especially if we relate it to the contributions given to the municipalities (plus EUR 1.3 million, of which EUR 737 million for sums to be allocated to the special offices of the Municipality of L'Aquila and to the municipalities of the crater damaged by the earthquake 2009 and EUR 560 million for sums to be allocated to the Municipality of Rome for the financial return plan), with the largest contributions to the investments of enterprises (EUR 1 billion, of which one billion relate to residual payments to the State Railways); with the acquisitions of financial activities whose increase in allocations is reported, for more than 600 million, to the sums necessary for the payment of the liabilities to the local authorities in order to ensure the liquidity necessary for the payment of certain, liquid and payable debts. In conclusion - as has been said - budgets are a ballet of numbers, but depend on forecasts. Making forecasts also means taking responsibility for predicting what the scenario would be without any intervention, imagining new policies and, finally, predicting how the scenario would be changed by our maneuvers. The best programmer should have a crystal ball. We are rightly expecting a mid-year settlement and it is clear that the government - and with it its majority - believes more in the forecasts, because it is very important that we are committed to achieving the objectives. In any case, on the whole, the Assetment under consideration changes very little the budget, while on the Document of Economy and Finance (DEF) we will discuss the matter at the appropriate time. I therefore believe that the draft law under consideration, which contains provisions for the adjustment of the state budget, can be truly approved with serenity. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u14	The joint general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur on draft law No 2521, Senator Santini.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u15	Mr President, I do not want to speak in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u16	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 2522, Senator Fravezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u17	Mr President, I would also like to give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u18	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u19	Mr President, most of the speeches have actually focused on the economic and fiscal policy choices that we will have to make from the debate and votes on the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document, which will then develop through the budgetary session. Therefore, as far as this part of the speeches is concerned, I will not give the House my comments in response, knowing that in a few days' time, next week, we will be the protagonists in this House of the debate on this very issue. So, in this regard, my reply today simply contains a reference to what we could observe, from our different points of view, in the discussion on the Update Note to the 2016 Economy and Finance Document. I would like to make two comments very quickly and then a final comment on the interventions that have actually dealt with the draft laws containing the Statement and the provisions for the adjustment of the budget. The first order of questions, raised by a number of speakers, concerns once again the alleged unsatisfactory results obtained through the operation we call "revision of expenditure." In other words, it was argued that absolute data on public expenditure would show that expenditure review operations were not effective. I believe that this assessment is the result of a real arbitrary operation, from the logical point of view, and also curious from the political point of view, because a part of those who support this thesis, according to which on the revision of the expenditure, over all these years, we have not achieved results, has been protagonist of important and long-lasting experiences of government, during which positive results have been obtained in the operation of reduction and revision of the expenditure. So, even politically, it is not clear to me what the ratio of such an attitude is. So, over the last decade, we have had three particularly strong orders of intervention on the expenditure review, on which, of course, my opinion is highly articulated. In quantitative terms, the first major intervention on the so-called revision of expenditure was represented by the decree Tremonti, which took place immediately after the formation of the Berlusconi Government, after the elections. It was an intervention which had a quantitative scope in terms of reducing expenditure, very strong and which was significantly corrected then during the next parliamentary work, during the Berlusconi Government - I have no difficulty in saying it, indeed I am glad to be able to say it - even by accepting, in this Assembly, amending proposals made by the then opposition, which turned out to be incisive in order to change that approach; an approach which - as is known - obtained many results, but which was based on the method of linear cutting: questionable and debated method, which however obtained important quantitative results. Today the Italian public expenditure would be much higher in terms of quantity if the decree Tremonti had not been approved. What is the reason why those who have thought it and voted it now deny this fact, I do not, but in any case it is. The second very incisive intervention, especially for one reason, was the decree-law of the Monti Government, immediately following the formation of that Government, in particular because of the aspect I am now dealing with, namely the measures in the social security field. Those measures have achieved enormous reductions in expenditure - compared to the trend - and the results of that operation are still very strong in the Nation's public accounts, despite the various operations of so-called protection of exodus have led to the use of 11 billion of those savings, which amount, however, over time, to several tens of billions, to intervene on the social problems that were to some extent resulting from that type of initiative. Even in this case, compared to that decree-law of the Monti Government, those who supported the measure - and there are many in this House - may have changed their opinion, may have maintained the same opinion, but it is difficult to deny that from a quantitative point of view that measure has achieved important results. The third and last major strand of intervention, on which governments have applied over the last ten years, concerns measures to contain expenditure on the purchase of goods and services, which have been entrusted to the care of several Commissioners who have achieved incisive results on this point, especially thanks to the action of a public structure created for this purpose - as you know, the Council - which has ensured that purchases of goods and services of the public administration could develop in a much more effective way. Now, the fact that most of these savings, which have been quantitatively very large, have been used for financing operations to reduce the tax burden or for new expenditure - for example to cope with the consequences of the severe recession in which Italy has plunged over the years behind us - I do not think it should - and it cannot, in any case - affect the judgment about the effectiveness of the previous expenditure review operations. We can discuss how different governments have used the proceeds from the expenditure review operation, but in my opinion it is unreasonable - it is not based on the facts - to argue that the expenditure review operation has not been effective. Here, if anything - and I end on this point - we face a new challenge. The fourth important act - in my opinion - must be carried out now and stems from the combination between the new accounting law and the implementation of the reform of the public administration, for which legislative decrees have been largely enacted. The combination of these two structural reforms (not only the reform of the public administration, but also that of the accounting law, although I understand that the latter is not mentioned in the bars, but this does not mean that it is relevant) brings us to the real challenge: will Italian policy finally succeed in doing what it has never done? Will it also be able to use evaluation in terms of the objectives of administrative action and change of behaviour, as well as legislative innovation, to reduce and revise expenditure? On this point, for now, we are not there, and I am also referring to the activity of myself and my Ministry. But the new accounting law creates the premises for a new action on this point, starting next March. The second order of issues that I want to address very quickly, having regard to the interventions related to the Income and Assetment, is the judgment on the size of the tax pressure in Italy. It has been said, that the absolute numbers of revenues would prove that the Government tells fairy tales when it says it has reduced the tax burden, and the numbers have been quoted. But even in this respect, perhaps, it would be appropriate to examine them from the inside. I'll give you an example. If I replace resources derived from actions that make those revenue acquire new structural character - such as the action to combat evasion - I succeed in obtaining an x value, which is not limited to one year, but repeats itself for all years. If, through those resources, I make an intervention to abolish the IRAP tax base of the "cost of labour" component, I do not change the total tax burden, because revenue is what comes from the effective contrast to evasion and revenue are those to which I give up when I remove, from the IRAP tax base, the "cost of labour" component. But if I don't look inside that number related to the tax burden by seeing that I've done this operation, I can't appreciate a fundamental point. The effect on the product of the two forms of entry (always 100 of entry) is very different. The positive multiplier of the reduction of the tax burden on labour and business is very high (there is no need to be a great economist to understand it) compared to an income that is limited to combating tax evasion which is probably a phenomenon that the product, not only does not make it increase, but most likely, tends to, in the very long period, even reduces it. Again, I am sorry for Senator Mandelli, but the quotation of numbers does not prove anything. We must assess how we have used those resources that, through additional revenue, replace revenue that is present today and that are extremely penalising for the country's development prospects. For example, all that comes from tax pressure on producers, i.e. on work and business, certainly has a depressing effect on the growth much higher than that of taxes that act on other taxable bases and, in particular, much higher than the revenue transactions that are carried out through the contrast of circumvention and evasion. So, also in this regard, let's look inside the numbers and, each other, let's launch a challenge. What we have done up to now is perhaps not even half of the work, because the work will be achieved when substantially, at an equal level of tax pressure, the tax burden on labour and business will have fallen in Italy to the size that has, more or less, in Germany, while we will have carried out operations that replace these revenues with others, whose presence has a negative impact on the product, or a neutral impact. Finally, I respond to Senator Gasparri, who in his speech took advantage of the opportunity offered by the Assestamento e dal Rendiconto, in full legitimacy, to pose questions related to the banking system. I am not talking about individual banks, but I simply want to remind you that, as far as the relationship between the public budget and the banking system is concerned, Italy is by far the one in a better context. Then we can discuss whether they did well, when it was time, to take this path or not; but we did not have to call on taxpayers' resources to take on the open holes in banks' budgets, as happened in Germany, Ireland, England, France and Spain. Senator Gasparri asked the following question: what if an important systemic bank goes into financial crisis? Of course, there would be effects if this were to happen, but they would be lower than those that are determined in those countries where the public budget already has enormous exposure to the banking system. Having said that, we consider that the set of measures adopted during this year and a half, of which some structural reforms (reform of popular banks, reform of cooperative credit banks, initiative of moral suasion to create the Atlas Fund, which today is a decisive structure in this context), have created the conditions for the Italian banking system not to know systemic crises. We will continue to work on this, but we believe that we have done our part fully in this regard. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u20	I inform you that, since the final vote on the two measures will take place by electronic ballot, pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, once the examination of the Articles of the Statement has been completed, we will proceed directly to the discussion of the articles of the Assetment. The joint explanations of vote will then be followed and the two votes will be taken using the electronic system.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u21	Mr President, as far as the agendas for the G100 and G101 are concerned, the opinion is in favour. With regard to the amendments tabled to Article 1, the opinion is opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u22	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u23	The G100 and G101 agendas were accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u24	Senator Lucidi, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u25	Mr President, I simply insist that we leave the proceedings and inform the House that we have presented the G100 agenda to resume a speech which had been interrupted by European law last July. Criticalities have emerged regarding that law, in particular the Fund for victims of violent crimes. So we are working to try to understand how it is possible to increase the availability of the Fund and extend the parameters and criteria of access to it. We have, therefore, prepared the G100 agenda to reinforce our initiative. I would also ask for the vote on the G101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u26	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G100 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for all votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G100 agenda, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G101, presented by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.tab.2.1. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.2.1, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.2.2, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.2.3, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.2.4, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.2.5, tabled by Senator Mangili and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.2.6, tabled by Senator Bulgarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.2.7, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.2.9, tabled by Senator Bulgarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.2.10, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.2.11, tabled by Senator Mangili and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.2.12, tabled by Senator Bulgarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.2.13, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.8.14, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.8.15, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.tab.8.16, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u27	I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u28	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u29	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3 tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.9, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote on Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This concluded the examination of the articles of the Assestamento.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u32	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I rise for a quick explanation of vote on the ambitious objectives and the excesses of optimism, as they were able to assess and represent, even at the hearing, both Bankitalia and the parliamentary budgetary office. In particular, precisely Bankitalia - and regret to have to remember also on this occasion the great stone conviviate of this adjustment of accounts of October, that is the great topic of the banking sufferings and the heavy repercussions on our economic system and therefore also on the public accounts - has emphasized how it is now indispensable to reduce the expenditure and concentrate the measures in support of the increase; while the Parliamentary Bureau of budget, for the first time from its constitution, has not validated the programmatic framework presented by the Executive. It never happened, and it's a question of whether all those who are evaluating government numbers have gone crazy or whether this government alone has gone crazy. But in order to remain on the subject of the reduction of expenditure, so much discussed, evoked and never realized, if ever exists, Deputy Minister Morando, this happened on the expected and not on the accumulated stock. It is therefore evident the government's immobility with regard to the issue of reducing expenditure and the absence of structural cuts. A consideration that is confirmed once again by the numbers, a very important phenomenon: the approximately 1.7 billion cuts no longer linear, but selective, foreseen by the law of stability for 2015, have never been realized. In fact, the result is a cut of just 0.3% compared to expected. We are always the 'zerovirgolas', Mr President: a disappointing conclusion due to the substantial reinstatement of various chapters of expenditure involved during the year. It is not the spending review with which we have filled the House with words over the years. 10:37 a.m. (Following BONFRISCO). Therefore, the need for a careful review of expenditure, or rather, to say the same with the Court of Auditors (which is not another crazy act such as the Parliamentary Budget Office or the Bank of Italy), remains unchanged and improbable.It is a careful review of what can or can no longer be borne by the State budget, in a process of selecting expenditure careful not to adversely affect the country's growth potential. Yes, because to characterize the current state spending there is not only the data on staff - which, as we all know, is incompressible - or that on intermediate consumption. The latter figure, however, went well beyond expectations, in order to remain on the subject that Deputy Minister Morando pointed out earlier: it was planned to reduce the appropriations by 3%, while the most significant increase in recent years has been recorded. The current expenditure of the State is not limited to that of transfers to the territorial administrations, even if, then, the territories are discharged the burden of many services and, to those services, do not correspond the appropriate transfers by the State. This is a looming fact, which shows how the implementation of fiscal federalism remains unresolved; a system that everyone invokes, whose complete implementation is continually postponed and hindered by an overabundance of legislation that, however, fails to adequately address the remaining unresolved problems of the difficult financing of territorial authorities, of the always elusive, loyal collaboration between levels of government and the fiscal responsibility of local authorities. Just think of the marginal contribution of the municipalities to the 2015 verification activity. Finally, I would like to mention a couple of issues which I consider emblematic, first of all the famous public administration payments. An ad hoc measure has been taken to ensure that our companies no longer have to act as bankers and funders of the Italian State, but to be able to see their honest and fair profit achieved after providing services to the public administration. Despite regulatory and financial efforts, trade debts fell by only 0.3% of GDP, remaining at 65 billion. Who remembers Matteo Renzi when, in a famous television show, he declared that on the day of St. Matthew of that year - ran the year 2014 - all debts of the public administration would be honored and paid to Italian companies? Here, we are still here to deal with 65 billion - I repeat 65 billion - that Italian companies have lent to the State and have not been paid [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] for what they have done with regard to those intermediate consumptions, that is, purchases of the goods and services of the public administration that the State orders, causes to execute the enterprises, and then not to pay them; which, in turn, do not pay their suppliers; which, in turn, cannot honour their debts with the banks. This creates a chain, a vicious circuit that has led our country to collapse. I could go on for a long time, Madam President, but I conclude, because I believe that what we have said so far from several quarters is sufficient to demonstrate the government's inadequacy in relation to the challenges posed by the now unavoidable need for fiscal consolidation; recovery repeatedly declined by the Government itself in the sense of reducing expenditure and debt reduction. However, Madam President, I do not hide from you that our concern is high, very high: we see no credible signal for the Italians and for the markets of a reversal of trend by a Government that, instead, telling fairy tales, has distributed rain resources, moreover with results, from the point of view of the feedback of the numbers, so modest that it suggests that that waste of public money, collected by the taxes of the Italians, has been distributed so little and badly to reward only some and to impose, instead, on many other sacrifices. This waste has reduced our ability to grow again and prevented us from claiming to have a responsible government. This is an irresponsible Government and I am sure that the Italians, in their judgment, will take this into account and, at the first opportunity they will have, will reject its action for having further impoverished the country, wasted years of international conjuncture that could have favored (as happened for other countries) a recovery, even slow and difficult. Here, however, there is not even one sign of recovery and to deny the Government we are not the opposition, but they are all the main protagonists of the real accounts, the truths of the accounts that this Government hides but that, of course, others have taken the task of demonstrating: from the Court of Auditors to the Bank of Italy, to the parliamentary budgetary office. Not to mention the international observers, who now begin to no longer believe the ability of this Government to take our country out of a path in which its own irresponsible choices have led us. Our vote is therefore strongly opposed to this operation of non-truth about the numbers that the Minister of the Economy is forced to correct with respect to forecasts that to define only optimistic is still little. We will vote against, remembering our commitment, like that of all, to improve the accounts and the economic situation of the State, always ready and willing to find solutions, but those that serve the Italians, not those that serve only one of you. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u35	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, today we are examining and voting on the 2015 Report and the 2016 Assetment: two years of evaluation. The Statement is an important instrument - in our opinion - which also gives us a bit of the real strategy of the Government. If it is a current spending policy - and the government can have its assessment - we all know that current spending is ephemeral; the benefits it can give in government policies are still limited. The real expenditure, that time to development and that highlights the foresight of a Government, is given by capital expenditures, investment expenditures, those that really help to start our country. Well, we see that capital expenditure is down by 35 billion (46.2%) and that is already a symptom of what the government wants to do. If we then go to examine the Assestamento, then the year 2016, without needing to quote so many numbers, just understand how the primary surplus of the budget is going is the important figure, also symptom of how our economy is proceeding and how this government's policy is profiting. Well, it gets worse. Let's go see the investments in the first eight months: Asset obviously concerns the first months of the year, but from January to August the Court of Auditors says that the investments have decreased by almost 7%. I repeat, investment is a very important fact. Among other things, the Court of Auditors says that in order to activate the flexibility clause on investments granted for 2016 - so it has already been granted - co-financing expenditure must not be replaced by investments financed entirely from national resources, so that total national public investment must not be reduced. The actual final investment expenditure of the State would then be even more limited, subtracting payments to local authorities for specific interventions also accounted for in the final expenditure of these entities. What can I say after that? But they have actually asked us to increase the need, because the government thinks that in its intentions it will have to make policies, it will have to assess well in terms of cash also of payments. We have just heard that the state has no funds to pay for companies. We adopted - it seems to me two years ago - an urgent measure to pay the companies that supply goods and services to the public administration, as Italy was one of the countries with the highest delay of payments at European level. The measure has been adopted and the funds have been made available, yet two years later we are still in the same situation: companies must receive funds. If we go to see the attitude of families, we observe that the volume of their savings has increased by almost 10%. What does this figure mean? It means that families do not have confidence in the future, are forward-looking and increase savings. Thinking of the serious crisis of 2013 and the times of the Monti Government, someone says that now GDP is no longer zero and is increasing. However, this is a small percentage and it cannot be said that the economy is going well and that government policies are serious and will produce development. That's not it! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Madam President, the small results that are being achieved are only due to Draghi's monetary policy. That is what this is about and not about other measures. Did we see what the 80 euro bonus did? Madam President, let me also say something about employment figures, which are very important because they are our young people. The employment situation of young people is not improving, as the employment figures we see are the result of a simple transformation of contracts. A policy is also being implemented to try to increase, and not reduce, the retirement age (see, between the lines, the need to abolish the so-called Fornero reform). I live in the North, where the economic situation is better than that of the South, yet many young people in my territory are desperate because they do not find work. Madam President, let me make one last note. It is true that this is not the place to talk about the Update Note to the DEF, since it will shortly be dealt with in this House, but I would ask you for a courtesy. It's important. The Commissions are analyzing the Update Note to the DEF and are really embarrassed to have to examine it by finding a discrepancy of evaluations. We do not have the elements to be able to assess: the Government and the Minister tell us things and the competent parliamentary office - it was wanted by this House as a third and independent body to provide Members with a correct evaluation - does not proceed with the validation. Madam President, I am here to make a request which I have already made to the Minister. I ask that before we proceed with the evaluation of the Update Note, the Government provides us with those data that, in your opinion, will produce that estimate, because otherwise we will not be able to evaluate. I ask you this because the Update Note is already in the Commission and it is there that we need to have these basic data. In conclusion, Madam President, our vote will be against the statement, because of course it is the result of this government's policy, and of course even more so on Assestation, because it shows precisely those negative data that demonstrate the failure of government policy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u38	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this year too, the two draft laws are being presented to us at the same time and, although the efforts of colleagues from the majority and the representative of the Government are to make them a purely technical intervention, it is clear that they have a political scope. The measures under discussion, in fact, must be analysed in order to give a political judgment and answer the question on what have really been the effects of the policies put in place by the government, especially with regard to the so much-so-called reforms. Madam President, a lot has been said, but the announcements no longer make us any particular impression: they were the first six months of the Renzi Government, then we passed a year and now we are over the second year of mandate and the effects of the policies we have been banning should begin to see. In these years Renzi government has not achieved more than 25% of what had been proposed in slogans and public communication activities through such a friendly press. Well, even this 25 percent realization compared to an overall pillar today is appaled as absolutely insufficient; Today it is appaled as a recipe that not only does not restart the country, it does not relaunch it, it does not give us the ideas to make us hope in new employment and in a new development, but even, to be good and without being the opponents excessively censored, gives us the sign of stagnation. We are talking, in fact, about a reduction in growth compared to forecasts, which - I just want to remind you - were 1.2%, and Minister Padoan himself had to say in his hearing that perhaps we will go well at 0.7%. When we lack the center of the forecast, when in such a resounding way we lack the point of equilibrium on which all the financial maneuver is set - you know that the forecasts for the following year are always made on the basis of the growth forecasts - it is clear and obvious - there is no need to climb on the mirrors, dear colleagues of majority - which follows in chain a whole series of non-matches in all the instruments of accounting and, therefore, also in what we are examining today. We must not climb the mirrors to find the six justifications that Mrs PD's colleague wanted to take forward or the arguments put forward by Deputy Minister Morando, because it is in the same logic. You don't have to justify it: once you haven't achieved the main objective, it's clear that, in a chain, the effects are of this kind. And remember that you not only put credit to the companies, but also to them the debts of the public administration (as has been reminded by the colleagues who preceded me). I wonder what effect it has had on the other fantastic measure of the 80 euros in paycheck, which came out on the eve of the last European elections. Can one single indicator tell us that you have really done an important, worthwhile and worthy work? Have you really restarted your propensity to consume? Did we put money back in circulation that would serve the economy? Where are they? Do you see all this? Do you read it somewhere? It is not necessary to listen to the speeches of those who are in opposition and in the minority in this House, but simply read the documents available to this House, which have been examined in the Commission. There is no positive effect: prices have not increased, consumption has not increased and the circulation of money has not increased, which would also allow more production by our companies. In the face of these failures, recipes are still in place, such as the 500 euro bonus for students. Once again they are proposed to be propagandist and electoral, which have no effect, do not bring any advantage and do not constitute any therapy for the evil of our society and our economy, which is represented, once again, by stagnation. For example, with regard to the chapter on payments made by the public administration for contractual services, it should be asked how many anomalies there are on the side not only of payments, but also of the action of the public administration. But when is this ever done? Once again we must say that economic growth can only be fostered by choices that give greater momentum and by an intelligent program that looks at a cultural revolution within the public administration, based on wise choices of identification and fight against waste, which looks at the investments in the medium term and the territorial specificities of our country, which is so varied, to the social and economic cohesion of the populations located in the territories and that it realizes that necessary equal opportunities in access to infrastructure and mobility of services. In the light of these and other persistent problems and given the fact that this is the first of the financial documents that we will be called to examine - it opens, in fact, the season of the law of stability - we will therefore have the opportunity to intervene further. Today's is just a snapshot of what the government has failed from the point of view of programming and numbers. We will have the opportunity to talk about the government's failures from the point of view of the ability to give concrete answers for the relaunch of our country. We shall therefore vote against both of the measures we are considering, and we will regret that, because when something does not work, it is not only political forces that support or oppose the government that are paying the consequences. Unfortunately, the consequences of a wrong policy, of the inability to spend what had been planned and of spending more than expected, are reflected directly on Italian citizens and on the structure and organisation of our State. So we're going to vote against, to the displeasure that we were right to say that approximation and propaganda end up in themselves wouldn't be good.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u41	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, the Senators of the Italian Left will vote against both the draft law containing the general account of the State administration and the draft law containing provisions for the adjustment of the state budget. For the truth, this year we have more reasons, even than last year, to vote against. It is clear, in fact, that the objective difficulty of governing in an economic and social process of great complexity - in this cyclical situation that continues to be quite unfavourable, both at national and international level - cannot, however, be used by the Government as an alibi for what we now consider a real failure of all economic and financial forecasts, which in fact, punctually, are denied downward. We also want to stigmatize a further attitude of the government that is never, as in this period, being expressed, namely the propaganda intent that is now the framework for budgetary manoeuvres, in particular that of the current year. Among other things, this is making it ever more concrete and likely - frankly, we are very concerned - the risk of serving a further gap in growth compared to other European and global economies. So, you make propaganda, you use the numbers to say the least, but in the end it is the country that is continuing to pay the consequences, and, within it, the weakest bands. Also the forecast of a growth for 2017 of 1%, presented with the Update Note to the DEF, has been defined by the deputy general manager of Banca d'Italia Signorini, in audition before the Committees budget of Chamber and Senate, to say the least optimistic. Even more disconcerting is the fact that the government inexorably binds - from the front pages - the estimates of growth and economic recovery of the country in 2017 to the victory of the yes to the constitutional referendum. In the introductory premise of the Update Note to the DEF is written in clear letters, and I am not here to repeat it because the Deputy Minister knows it perfectly; Indeed, for the truth, I marvel very much at him. We would first of all like to say not so quietly, because it is also comforted by many economists that the constitutional reform under referendum will certainly not streamline, but it will burden the legislative process, just as it is being done by the text submitted to the citizens' judgment. Not to mention, then, what happened. I know how much the Deputy Minister has worked for the constitution of the Parliamentary Budget Office and I am referring to this: to the non-validation of the DEF by the same because of the lack of data and the presence of wrong data, which are once again certifying that the Renzi Government, indirectly - through ministers who lend themselves, like Padoan - evidently seeks, through wrong data or the lack of data themselves, to cover all the failures of the Government. Coming to the merits of the bill, the balance sheet account that emerges from the 2015 Report certifies the government's bankruptcy policy. On the expenditure side, in fact, there is an increase in final commitments with an increase in current expenditure of 43 billion, which was reflected in a reduction in capital expenditure, i.e. investment expenditure, of 35 billion, with a decrease of 46.23 percent. Adjuvandum, with respect to this distorting trend and in spite of all Renzi's statements on the alleged reduction of taxes, is seen in 2015 an increase of both the taxes on the assets and the income of 14,6 billion and of the taxes and taxes on the affairs of 3,8 billion. These data, commented authoritatively by the President of the Court of Auditors, show that we of the Italian Left were right, when we argued that the policy of austerity in the long run would lead to an inevitable increase in current expenditure, despite the continued use of spending rewiev; the consequent strong reduction of the expenditure for investments in infrastructure and works really necessary to our country (and we do not refer obviously to the resurrected Bridge on the Strait of Messina); the increase of taxation and the reduction of services to citizens, which brings with it the demise of the quality of life, and in reality, in general, the depression from the economic point of view of the Country. The selection made by the Government in the reduction of public expenditure - as the President of the Court of Auditors says - most of the time is based on generic and often contradictory activities of thinning that have not affected the so-called "double structures" or those that show a substantial lack of public interest, instead going to adversely affect the staff, through the blocking of the bargaining and turnover that has allowed the State to save as much as ten billion. Not to mention, then, many of the interventions triggered by the Madia reform that must be completed, whose precise quantification of the financial effects is currently impossible. But for the truth we have a vague feeling that that too, rather than a reduction, will be an increase in the expenditure itself. In particular, we consider the disproportionate increase in the Fund for urgent and indisputable needs, which we are not aware of, to be emblematic of, having already put a number of questions on this subject. Established by Law No 190 of 2014, in order to meet the indisputable needs that occur during the management of a financial year and that are not predictable when the law of stability is approved, this Fund has been increased by as much as 955 million euros, bringing it overall to the figure of 1.5 billion. How does the government intend to employ such a substantial sum? We have made a number of proposals to use - for example - at least half of them in reconstruction operations in the earthquake zones, but there has been a strong no on the part of the Government, even in the recent debate on earthquake motions. We believe it is a more than legitimate and lawful question, after the recent earthquake and the observation - we have repeatedly placed it on the agenda of politics - of the total fragility of our country, which obliges us not only to face immediate needs present in our territory, but also to provide long-term responses on the level of securing the innumerable territorial and building fragility that afflict our country. Returning to the Bridge on the Strait, the President of the Council, with reference to its realization, has always had to point out that, in any case, priority should have been given to the realization of the works really crucial for the infrastructural development of the Country that, unfortunately, counts a very high percentage of unfinished works, arrived in 2014 at 868, from 692 in 2013, with the negative record own of the Sicilian Region, that sees on the territory 215 works remained to the stake. In spite of what we have always supported, we still consider it unacceptable that the President of the Council, after the disaster in Genoa, the railway disaster in Puglia and the dramatic earthquake of last 24 August, re-launch the realization, for mere pre-election purposes, of an absurd, useless and harmful work like the bridge, among other things in one of the most seismic territorial areas of the country. Our Group has often provided concrete proposals, a real plan, a green new deal sustainable not only from the environmental point of view but also social, useful for the solidarity growth of the entire country; greater support for the non-self-sufficient; an additional commitment on the reimbursement of innovative medicines; a decisive intervention finally against the seismic and hydrogeological risk; a strong intervention on the territorial system of socio-educational services, on the kindergartens, on the health protection and on the infrastructure that really serve. I am thinking of the whole issue of public transport, of rail transport. We have never been given meaningful answers. But what is apparent, precisely at the time when we wanted to retable here some of the amendments to the settlement bill and, more generally, at the time of the analysis of the Statement and the Assetment, is that we can only witness once again the failure of the government's economic policy. Therefore, we will vote very strongly against the Income Statement and the Assetment, because we have a concrete and alternative vision compared to the economic and financial policy manoeuvres that the Government has followed in recent years. Above all, the Assestation, the Statement and everything that is happening, all the forecasts punctually denied, the propagandistic use of data, even of data omitted and wrong, show us once again that in reality we are faced with a series of failures that we try to hide. We are absolutely aware that it is not only a political confrontation between opposition and majority, but it is also a matter that is really affecting the future of our country. I find it truly and absolutely irresponsible to continue to play with numbers and make predictions that are already known from the start that will be punctually denied by the facts, while nothing is being done instead to put in place different policies, that can really give our country a future. Constitutional reform will not give Italy a future; a future for Italy will only be able to give it serious investment policies for a real green new deal, which can bring the country out of the stalemate and the serious economic crisis. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u44	Mr Langella (AL-A). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda there are important steps in the budgetary cycle, through which the final results of the economic and financial management of the past year and the adjustments required in the forecasts for the current year are presented to the Chambers. These documents are therefore the final picture of the results of economic policy choices, whose analysis allows us to take stock of government action. The analysis, however brief, of the fiscal balances of the State for 2015 shows at first glance an overall improvement compared to the final forecasts for most of the parameters, also compared to the final results of 2014. First of all, I would like to point out that in 2015 GDP increased by 1.5% in nominal terms and by 0.8% in real terms; after three years of decline (less 2.8 in 2012, less 1.7 in 2013, less 0.3 in 2014) we finally return to positive territory. Certainly it is not much, especially if we consider the expectations of most of our citizens; but it is a starting point for strengthening government action. In the 2015 Report there are two significant indicators: the net balance to be financed is 41.5 billion and the use of the market is 257 billion. These values are significantly better than the initial forecasts and those laid down, as well as being more favourable than the results of 2014, resulting, in addition to the rest, clearly below the maximum ceilings established by the Stability Act for 2015. These are positive results, which allowed us to close 2015 with a deficit-GDP ratio of 2.6%, a much better result than in the previous three years, which had also seen debt standing constantly around the 3% limit. The economic policy put in place by the government therefore shows that it is working and delivering positive results, albeit still quantitatively modest, although the problems to be solved remain many, starting from an important public debt which, despite the many efforts made, continues to struggle to reduce. The stability law for 2015, the effects of which are included in the State Statement that we analyze today, as well as that relating to 2016, have constituted dowels of fundamental importance in the context of the overall organic action that the Government must implement in order to support the economic recovery. The strategy is to promote growth and employment by implementing structural reforms that are no longer postponed. I remember only the reduction of the IRAP borne by the company with the exclusion from the labour cost tax base for permanent employees, which marked an important step in the process of reducing the tax wedge; the contributory reductions related to the new recruitments reconfirmed in the following year, albeit for more limited amounts, constituted, together with the innovations introduced by the jobs act, a boost for the new employment. It is just yesterday the survey of the ISTAT that certifies 439,000 more employed in the period July 2015-July 2016. The many measures aimed at stimulating investment and business innovations, the refinancing of the Sabatini law, the tax credit for research and development expenses, the new patent box regime have promoted and supported the growth of our companies, because the income before being redistributed must be created. The delegation law for public administration reform and school reform should be added to what has already been said. Of course, all this is not enough, as demonstrated by the discussion already begun on the DEF Update Note; this document, the latter, shows clear darkness on which we should think carefully. One cannot escape the impression that too often the Government is held back by a discussion not always serene within the majority party, whose fractures end up delaying the administrative action and therefore the effectiveness of the measures taken on the effective development of the national economy. We regret the fact that investment, both public and private, is struggling to develop, while current expenditure increases net of interest, and that some measures taken, such as the EUR 80 bonus, have not produced the expected results in terms of growth in domestic demand and hence development. There is, therefore, a need to work. We are convinced that the whole country expects greater cohesion from all the Italian political forces, as our President Mattarella has repeatedly called for. This is, in fact, the essential element that determines a horizon favourable to development, giving greater certainty to the operators; that serenity that pushes the Italian families to consume, the entrepreneurs to invest and the administrative apparatus of the State and the local authorities to strive to give their citizens better and more efficient services. As you know, Madam President, AL-A has long pursued this objective, with an obstinacy that does not even diminish in the face of the very often unfair assessments of a press that is not really objective and incapable of seeing, beyond the parliamentary alchemies, the deepest sign of our presence. The choices made so far do not go in the direction of political lottification, but are, on the contrary, the result of the lucid awareness of the serious difficulties that the country still faces and that are not resolved either by the policy of the "vaffa" or by the preliminary opposition, but by a serene confrontation, capable of valorizing what is good in the action of the Government. But we are also ready for criticism when we consider that action to be insufficient. We will therefore vote in favour, not because we do not have any comments to make, which we will develop consistently at the forthcoming budgetary session, but because the lights prevail over the shadows and because the documents we are examining are evidence of a genuine effort, albeit for the moment insufficient.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u47	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of this measure by the Senators of the People's Area. It is clear to all that the data set out in the settlement bill are not entirely positive and satisfactory, since the country has not yet fully divided itself from the tentacles of the economic crisis. The main indicators of public finance, however, show signs of excellent restraint and give the sign of public finances in order and in improvement. In particular, the draft law, for example, the Fund's indisputable needs, initially endowed with EUR 25 million, are increased to EUR 955 million: far from representing a blank cheque to the Presidency of the Council, the mechanism for the operation of the Fund provides for the identification of destinations by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, which will of course be the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, so as to ensure its transparent and efficient use. On the other hand, Mr Morando gave us explanations in the Commission on how these resources can be used, which cannot be used for purposes set by the Government and not made known to Parliament. I would like briefly to talk about the revision of expenditure. I believe that one of the main chapters in ensuring public finances has been the pension reform in recent years: the pension burden has been made completely sustainable even in the long term, while at the same time taking action to protect people unjustly penalized in their monthly allowance. In this particular area, this approach must be maintained, concerning the rationalisation of pension expenditure, ensuring greater social equity and abstaining from interventions that may affect the pension of citizens. Another theme, which is fully part of the spending review, is the one related to the purchases of goods and services by the public administration, on which also there have been remarkable improvements. The resources allocated to the public service have also been a virtuous budget item thanks to the efforts made by this Government and its predecessors. The testimonials of an effective process of reordering of the expense are traceable also in the numbers of a significant primary surplus. With regard to the next budget maneuver, which is now close to us, I would like to see a serious and serene debate which, within the framework of strict compliance with the European regulations, guarantees the most expansionary maneuver possible, in order to guarantee room for the recovery of the economic system. Madam President, I should like to end by wishing that policies for more structural and less episodic growth can be introduced than in the past, citing the example of the possible fiscalisation of contributions on a three-year scale, with clear benefit for the planning of private investments. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u50	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, I do not agree with Mr Morando's remark that he disconnects the Statement from the Update Note to the DEF. The latter, in fact, is nothing more than the certification of a clear and obvious failure that derives from the forecasts made last year, just as the ones proposed this year are wrong. It is interesting to broaden your eyes and see how these measures are bound together and where they are taking us. I am interested in making this assessment because last year this incident happened: the rapporteur, who was also Senator Santini last year, was proud to have received the validation of the Parliamentary Budget Office (UPB), which is an independent body. I have always been very critical in front of this organ because it has no own means, it does not have its own study center and it does an average (they told me just when I asked how it came to these evaluations and the subsequent validation: I was told that the UPB makes an average taking into consideration the various international institutes as a result of which valid or not). I have never believed in real and concrete independence, but now the Parliamentary Budget Office can stand aside; we are not interested. What is true are the numbers reported in the Report, which I do not want to state in their totality because it would not make sense. There are, however, a few which I consider to be the most representative. First of all, our accounts are kept afloat by Draghi's expansive policy. Since 2012 we have paid 10 billion less of interest due: over a very few years we have increased from 77.5 billion euro to 68 billion of interest due. Another very interesting fact for me is public savings, which is the difference between tax and extra-tributary revenue and consumption expenditure and debt management itself. From 2012 to today, we move from a positive balance of 48 billion euros to a negative of 9 billion euros. Renzi succeeded where the others had failed; there really was an escalation: 48, 39, 18, - 9 billion public savings. This money would be used to make those investments that our country really needs. This money would at last serve to fuel that index, which is GDP, with good resources and making good investments: on hydrogeological failure, on school building (quiet when you say you have done it), on research, that development in the fields of education and culture and much more. Compared to the growth forecasts that you are making, the policy framework is changing by magic from 0.6 to 1%. How? What has changed with respect to the mortifying data of this Report? Why should there be such growth? Is it due to structural reforms? Do you really think that you will get this by eliminating the present Senate and putting here one hundred senators from the most corrupt political class, plus immunity, and whose first act will divide refunds again (why nothing will be eliminated), with yes and no 50 million savings? Is this the great structural reform? The point I would like to focus on is, above all, what Minister Padoan said. You have provided for the safeguard clauses, due to the huge mistake that was the EUR 80, which we are still paying. Those safeguard clauses you put, Deputy Minister Morando, you know that it is so; they don't come from anywhere, as Renzi says. You put them in. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And since I'm there at current legislation, Minister Padoan arrives and tells us that there will be a positive impact on the fact that they won't take off. Yeah, that's what they said. So I ask you: why do you not want to evaluate the 5 Star Movement's proposal to consider the positive impact that might have on not blocking ourselves but going further and doing something? We could go to Europe and claim to be a serious government that does not make political or electoral donations (the so-called tips), which makes a serious spending review, but also wants to revive consumption and therefore, at the same time, amortize that poverty that has become suffocating; a government that wants to establish the income of citizenship and perhaps evaluate the positive impact that could have significantly lower taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises, instead of always facilitating the big ones. You have even spoken about how much more effective it would be to act on the tax wedge. Vice-Minister, you cannot then lie to me about this, having learned how serious you are and how you have been preparing for it over the last few years in the Budget Committee: what have you done with the decontribution? You fired smoke in your eyes to hide the abolition of Article 18 of the so-called Workers' Statute, because that is the jobs act. Then there was the decontribution, which went from 8,000 euros to 3,250 euros and now will be even smaller. In the face of this you have abolished a structural law that cost almost EUR 1 billion and that will now be gone. You've weighed the tax wedge by a billion! This is the sacred truth, because when there is no longer this commercial maneuver the tax wedge will remain heavier for a billion. This must be said to businesses, because it is the truth. Let us not fool ourselves by saying that, in fact, we want to lighten the tax wedge, because we have weighed it down. And don't tell me about the IRAP work component, because you know that for many of the small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those in the South, for a number of tax mechanisms, this was absolutely not due. You did a spending review going right on the productive part, going right on those businesses, especially craftsmen, who went to solve a long-term problem such as long-term unemployment. And in August, which is a month in which - as you know - you historically assume more, you have not even managed to recover the loss of 63,000 jobs in July. This should be said and evaluated by changing economic policy, which is not done at all. As far as spending review is concerned, we are in favour, but you cannot tell me that it was really done on time, nor can you tell me that it will come from the public administration or even from the accounting law. When you have not been able to stop Article 81 of the Constitution from making new public debt, will you tell me that the accounting law will stop you? Ask for overflows and we will also do so in the next update of the DEF. What should ever block the accounting law, Deputy Minister Morando? Absolutely nothing, because instead you are doing the spending review on the flesh and blood of the poor people. Instead, it would be appropriate to manipulate the information, saying that you are fighting over a billion at the National Health Fund; saying that you have already planned a cut of EUR 4 billion for the regions, of which 3.5 billion is for health care. You put it in black and white. In 2018 there will be another 5, of which 4.5 billion will be charged to health care. Say that in your programming documents you expect that public spending must be reduced by local government but not by the central government, which keeps its hands free to give bonuses, to give 500 euros to children and teachers, without giving them dignity and a real programming. That's the truth. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All this is then certified by the numbers. I just add a figure on decontribution and growth. Minister Padoan said that growth has finally come back positive, as has employment. But I look at the context. We are always at least 0.8 percentage points below the rest of Europe. Even where there is no government, they grow more. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When Renzi arrived, our unemployment was 12.4%; the European average was 12%. So there was a 0.4% gap; now that gap between our unemployment and the European average has reached 1.5%. We are becoming nothing but the locomotive of Europe: the wagon, Europe's spare wheel. We don't deserve this! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With this no, with the no to the Statement, we certify the wisdom of our nos during this year, because everything you have done, you have certified it in this document; it was absolutely wrong and extremely harmful. So glory, yay our nos! Too bad you didn't catch them and it's too bad you still don't want to pick up our programming for this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u53	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the benefit of the debate on the balance sheet and the balance sheet is twofold this year. The first is always: I prefer to measure myself not on scenarios, but on forecasts at such short dates, such as the Assetment, which have a degree of reliability almost close to certainty, just for the very short period that separates the forecast in settlement from the end of the year and, therefore, from the final budget. There is therefore a representation of the state and public finance, close, reliable and very close to certainty. The second advantage this year is that, since the debate on the DEF Update Note is beginning today in the Budget Committee, it will be where we will be discussing the scenarios and so today we can focus instead, not on this kind of horizon, but on the short-term forecast horizon of the adjustment budget. I am therefore exempted today from reasoning on the scenarios. If we look at the balance sheet then, I would say that the only thing that can be approached is a sort of loss report. If we look at it in terms of competence, the bill of settlement shows a worsening of the net balance to be financed, of the public savings and of the primary surplus. But since I am more tied to the cash forecasts, because our big problem is debt and in the end the debt is much more comparable in terms of cash, I try to see forecasts settled for the cash. Worse: all balances worsen with significant entities. Think that the net balance to be financed goes from 98,1 billion to 107 billion euros; the public saving goes from -59,3 billion to -61 billion euros (the savings in negative figures is obviously a worsening); the need to resort to the market - given important - shows an increase of 9,3 billions, reaching the amount of 330 billion euros. Finally, the primary surplus, starting from a value of -14 billion reaches an amount of -27 billion euros. This is the state of Italian public finances. There is not a single parameter at this moment that comforts us. Let's forget about complex things (we'll deal with them elsewhere): these are pretty simple things and indicate a worsening of all the vital parameters of public finance. Moreover, Article 2 of this law amends the budgetary law by requiring that the quantification of the maximum amount of issue of public bonds be increased to 64 billion compared to 53.4 billion euros. I do not hide that there are also technical issues when it comes to such magnitudes, but in a context such as that in which we are living these days, to say that, however, it is possible for the State to make more use of the issue of securities and therefore debt is not a positive signal, and this obviously has great importance in our parliamentary decision. If we then see the other parameters, we can try to have some ideas that correspond to what is said in the talk shows, those broadcasts that are seen on television in which everyone draws "animated cartoons" that do not have to do with the arid numbers that I - I apologize for this - am tied up, but unfortunately there is not even one of the parameters that is good. Think about the debt issue. We've always said that this year is a little better. No, the debt - I consider the years of this Government - goes from 131.9 percent of 2013 (it is even the overall one that considers public administrations) to 132.3 percent of 2015 compared to gross domestic product. So it's on the rise. One might hope that 2016 will be better, but unfortunately, as indicated by the Bank of Italy in its recent hearing (repeat, these are not scenario data, but adjustment, therefore immediate and almost certain forecasts), it still increases, to 132.8 percent. So you can't change any of the parameters in a positive way. Finally, I tried to see if by chance these increases were related at least to an increase in investment expenditure. In fact, one might even think: at this time when everything is very difficult you get into debt to invest. Unfortunately, not only is this not confirmed, but - alas - gross fixed capital formation of general government has steadily declined: 2.6 percent in 2012, 2.4 percent in 2013, 2.3 percent in 2014, 2.2% in 2015. That's how investment gets thinner and, therefore, you don't get into more debt to invest. Finally, since I always hear in the talk shows that the tax burden decreases, I must say that unfortunately it is not so. In recent years, the tax burden has remained constant as a whole, with a percentage of 43.4% in both 2014 and 2015 and so on. What does such a data mean? Unfortunately, this government has spent too much on current spending and, therefore, the whole story about flexibility doesn't make much sense. He's asking us to get out of bond constraints. In truth, I remember that other governments not only were not allowed to come out of the covenant bonds, but were also required to improve the parameters, which were not to remain constant. Anyway, that's good. It is possible to derogate from covenant constraints if you make an investment in the future and spend on investments. No, it is not: we, unfortunately, still spend on current expenditure. If this were not the case, all these figures would not be consistent, but - unfortunately - that is the case. This leads us to nourish the conviction that the work of this Government, not only is not solving the problems of Italian public finance, but - indeed - is worsening them. That is why we intend to vote strongly against it. In Italy we must take up the flag - which this Government does not do - that strict public finances from the point of view of current expenditure can allow an improvement in capital expenditure and, by this way, we can ask for derogations from the constraints on investment on the future. This is when it emerges from the data. I can understand all those who make optimistic predictions. In life, however, one must never fall down one day or another, in Italy, one must start an operation of truth starting from the idea that either the current expenditure is put under strict control (so releasing the resources for investments and being able to ask for further derogations to improve the investment on the future), or we will end up in a dead end. My feeling is that this is taking us to a dead end. Madam President, I do not want to go into detail, partly because it would be easy for me to talk about the EUR 80 bonus and other similar measures. I believe that this issue is so serious that it must be dealt with with with a great deal of truth. That is precisely why I am not convinced, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that we are trying to focus our attention on something else. The expression "in Italy" must make reforms" does not have any merit: we must make economic reforms and then also institutional reforms. Of course, there is some relationship between the two reforms, but it is not said - and at this point, it is not true - that some reforms immediately affect the economic reforms that are needed. So, without me encountering very easy polemics, I think it is necessary to say something true in this Senate, at least as long as there is (I hope very long). Today the Italian accounts are not going well and we need a turn. By acting, this government not only did not improve them, but - indeed - made them worse. For this reason, our vote will be against. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u56	TONINI (PD). Madam President, the Senators of the Democratic Party will vote in favour of both the 2015 Statement and the 2016 Assetment, and we will do so because we believe that the data confirm the correctness of an economic and social policy line pursued in recent years. According to ISTAT, between 2014 and 2015, in fact, the figure on growth has been reversed, moving from a recession to a growth phase (although very moderate) and also employment has returned to see the positive sign; at the same time, we managed to keep the expenditure under control and to reverse the trend also on the tax pressure. These are the synthetic data. We have done all this in a very difficult situation, which I like to compare to the path of a mountain man on a very thin and slippery ridge, against which there is the precipice of the recession on the right and on the left that of the default, of the crisis of the debt, of the insolvency of the State. We must walk on this very narrow and very difficult ridge. Honestly, in this House, beyond so many small criticisms of merit, on which I will return and which have every right to be taken seriously, from the point of view of the general strategy I have heard only a few calls to jump into one precipice or the other. There is a part that says that we have to go faster, without delay to the medium-term objective, that is to say to the nominal balance of the budget, costs what it costs. We know that, in an international context such as what we are experiencing, an economic policy that would speed up the path towards balance of the budget, thus removing the deficit and bringing us more quickly into a perspective of debt reduction, would have immediate recessionary effects. This is undoubtedly evidence and, therefore, would be tantamount to saying: let us throw ourselves into that precipice. On the other hand, I have heard someone support the opposite hypothesis: who cares about the European parameters, the rules, the medium-term objective; the balance of the structural budget is a fetish, we break 3% as other countries do and we will see that growth resumes. This is the invitation to jump into the opposite precipice, that is to return to make our country unreliable on the markets (and we know that every year we have to sell hundreds of billions of debt), and therefore this would mean going back with the spread to 5%, where we found ourselves at the beginning of this affair, in a dramatic financial situation that would then quickly question any growth goal. In my opinion, we must instead walk on this ridge, following this path with patience and tenacity. Of course, all of us, starting with the government and the majority who support it, would like to see it traveled more quickly and agilely. We would quickly like to see the good signs and the good signs (for the good signs mean more growth and employment and for the good signs mean less tax pressure and less spending, in particular the less productive ones) have no more "zerovirgola," but a nice round point, like a 1 or a 2. Getting to this goal, which is then the sense of our work, involves two conditions, the first of which is in our hands only to a certain extent. To some extent, however, it is also within our hands: we must change the mark of European economic policy. This is a path on which the Italian Government is strongly committed: in fact, we need, alongside the consolidation work, that it is necessary to be done by the national states, and that therefore beside the fiscal compact (which we do not deny, because it constitutes a necessary principle of order in a federation of states, which still maintain a strong sovereignty over economic policies and at the same time want to have the same currency in their pockets), beside this element of discipline there is an expansionary motor that lights up at federal level. When our President-in-Office invites us to do what we do in America, he means exactly that. In the United States of America, the states that make up the Union have a duty to balance the budget: if they do not have the budget in balance they go in default and no one assists them. At the same time, however, there is the federal engine that goes on and there is a huge boost to growth, due to the fact that the action of the federal government and the American Treasury favors growth. This is the compromise on which the United States stands, which certainly has its problems and its limitations, but the data tell us that, even with all its problems, it is working much better than the European compromise, which pushes States to respect budgetary rigour, but then it does not have the federal engine that goes on. So flexibility was invented, which is what keeps us alive right now. As always, I listened carefully to Senator Azzollini's words: if we remove this oxygen, we suffocate. Other is to say that this oxygen, what little there is, must be used intelligently. Here the keywords are two: one is the word "reform" and the other is the word "investment." Reforms are necessary, because they are the boots we use to walk on that thin and slippery ridge. If we wear shoes with smooth soles, it is easy to slip and fall; if we have crampons, it is easier to walk safely and we can also accelerate the pace of our step. Out of metaphor means that the 800 billion euros of public spending must be retrained, since they cannot grow, but if anything they must decrease a little. In order to reduce them a little and produce growth and social equality, we must retrain them, by restructuring public spending, through reforms, starting from the top, that is, from Parliament. If Parliament does not work, the State does not work and if the State does not work, the economy goes to be blessed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is a concept of normal common sense. Then we can discuss the merits of how Parliament, the Government of a Country and the State are organized. To say that this would be a diversion does not make sense, because it would be like saying: who cares about the boots we wear while we are walking on that ridge, having two precipices, one to the right and the other to the left. Another thing is investment and I welcome all the provocations that have been made on this subject. So let's talk about the current situation, so let's start the discussion on the next point, that is, the Update Note to the DEF. What did the auditors in the Joint Chamber and Senate Budget Committees tell us the day before yesterday? The representative of the Bank of Italy told us that the 1% target is ambitious: he did not say that it was unrealistic, but he said that it was ambitious. When a member of the opposition asked him in more stringent terms if this meant that the objective is not attainable, Dr Signorini replied that, if he wanted to use another adjective, he would do so, while he chose to use the adjective "ambitious." The representative of the Parliamentary Budget Office said in turn that, without knowing the content of the manoeuvre, he cannot stand for the 1% growth target. That is what the UPB said. Yesterday the Minister replied that, when we know the content of the manoeuvre, we will see that 1% is a realistic objective. We're in this state, then. Personally, I think that we must all be happy that a debate on the substance has begun on the basis of certain figures. This is the main merit of having set up the Parliamentary Budget Office. I am pleased that the House today, and in particular the opposition, welcomes the fact that we finally have an independent authority to certify the budget. Well, that is what we wanted when we launched the new Article 81 of the Constitution: to have an independent authority that certifies the budget and introduces an element of practical, realistic and not ideological dialectic in our comparison. The problem now is that we can close the contradiction in two ways, and I conclude, Madam President. The first is what Mr Brunetta, the leader of Forza Italia in the House, asked us yesterday in the hearings, namely to lower the growth targets. But it seems to you that we can say to the country: Dear Italians, do you know what's new? We all, the majority and the opposition, lower growth targets; that is, we want to increase less than 1% on a programme basis. The other way to close the contradiction is to say that we need to make a maneuver that makes the 1% target realistic. The bet on which the government spends itself - and the majority with him - is that we will make this objective realistic. We will make growth and employment within the European competitiveness framework. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u57	We shall therefore proceed to the final votes on draft law Nos. 2521 and 2522. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2521 as a whole, with annexes 1 and 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill No. 2522 as a whole, with the annexed tables. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u60	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to propose a reversal of the agenda, in order to move on to the follow-up to the review of the measure on criminal proceedings rather than the motion for a resolution on cinema. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would also like to make a statement in favour of my proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u61	As your request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of our Rules of Procedure, the vote will take place by show of hands after the intervention of no more than one speaker against and one in favour and for no more than ten minutes each. I therefore call on you to speak in favour of this report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u62	Madam President, I would like to remind my fellow Members that this surprising passage last week had been determined by a reversal of the agenda requested the day after the government authorized the imposition of confidence on the text that came out of the Commission; confidence that was never put forward and that, however, determined the reversal of the agenda and the examination of the measure on cinema. Now, I wonder, after a week, if the arguments and arguments that had opened within the majority did not end because, at this point, I think we are faced with a great difficulty: on the one hand the People's Area pushes in one direction, on the other the National Association of Judges presses in exactly the opposite direction. At this point I wonder whether it is no longer serious to deal with the measure; if so, to request a return to the Commission where Mr Orlando will finally clarify whether the matter should go one way rather than another. But it is time to end this way of working in the Senate or, better, not working. It is clear that at this moment, in the light of the vote of 4 December, no one wants to deal with any kind of subject involves involvement. Is this about the trial? No, it's too divisive and you don't want to face it. Is there a draft competition law? No, that's divisive too, so we can't touch that either. We have dealt with the measure on cinema, from which the part concerning the circus has also been removed, because even the use or not of animals in the circus can be divisive. At this point I wonder what we are doing here at this time. We, for two months, must, precisely to comply with the will of the government, do nothing more, to give the idea that the Senate is a useless body and therefore must be abolished by voting yes to the referendum. Because this is the will. [[Applause from the Mixed and Mixed-SEL Groups]] Madam President, I should like to conclude by saying that we are going to have a serious reform like the one we were approving (on which we can be more or less in agreement) and that we are going to recover the dignity that has been taken away from this branch of Parliament by a colleague, the former President of the Republic, who has called Parliament unworthy and, therefore, this Senate too: unworthy will be his sister and his brother, not the Senate! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u65	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, I would like to ask Mr Calderoli, whose institutional attention we know, to address colleagues and former Presidents of the Republic in different tones. [[Live comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] I would also like to remind him that the aim of the majority is precisely to move forward rapidly, as he himself invites us to do, in the course of further work. In fact, Mr Calderoli's intervention is in danger of going in the opposite direction. We now have a measure on the agenda, the examination of which we have already begun, which, among other things, sees a very broad support in this House. This is the measure on cinema, which I believe we are in a position to conclude very quickly. So my speech is simply to reiterate my hope that the intention of the majority and of this House will be to continue with the measure on the agenda and to conclude it as soon as possible, and then proceed without any problem with the measures that will follow.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u66	I put to the vote the request that the agenda be reversed, made by Senator Calderoli. It's not approved. BONFRISCO (CoR). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u67	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2287, 649 and 1835. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 28 September the general discussion was concluded, the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place, Articles 1 to 9a were approved and the examination of Rule 10 and the amendments and agenda submitted to it began.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u70	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask you to change the previous vote of the entire Group of the Five Star Movement, which intended to vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u71	We take note of that, Senator Castaldi. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G10.300, presented by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 11, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u72	Madam President, Amendment 11.6 addresses an issue which we have already discussed elsewhere when certain rules on cinema were introduced during the debate on stability laws. Mine is a very simple proposal. We know very well that film sets and productions are also an important driving force for the promotion of territories. Since in this field we must focus attention (which unfortunately does not happen in many other areas) on the possibility that territories of great historical and cultural value, such as those of the Mezzogiorno, can host as many movie sets as possible, with all the positive consequences of economic induced, but also of good image that these productions can have, I propose that there be a reserve quota for productions in the Mezzogiorno, in such a way as to encourage producers to go to those territories, as already partly happens. However, it is necessary to increase their presence in those territories more and more, especially in order to facilitate an economic development that is absolutely consistent with the times and potential of the territories themselves. I therefore call on my colleagues, particularly those who come from the regions of the convergence objective, i.e. mainly from the Mezzogiorno: I believe that this can be one of those healthy directions in which we must channel our cultural and economic development.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u73	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment No 11,200, which concerns a subject on which the Commission has been discussing for a long time, namely the criteria for providing funds and funding to the film sector. We know that one of the innovative aspects of this bill is the transition from a selective contribution system to a mixed, selective and automatic system. In this passage, however - in our opinion - in the draft law presented by Minister Franceschini, the one under consideration in the text issued by the Commission, the proportion between selective contributions (given the cultural quality of the audiovisual or cinematographic work) and automatic contributions, which would instead derive from parameters that will be defined more precisely in the implementing decrees and which for the time being have been sketched out (e.g. ticketing, the number of international festivals to which they have participated or the number of international prizes won), has not been balanced. Indeed, at first, in the Commission, amendment 11.12 was agreed between the Government and the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi, which provided for the increase of these selective support to 25%, because it had been recognised that the percentage between 18 and 20 was actually too low. After a few days (and it is conceivable that in this case some powerful film reality has intervened, which probably has as President someone who has family ties also with some Minister of this Government: all hypotheses, we do not know, but it is possible that there has been an intervention) the amending will to bring the selective contributions to 25% has been abandoned. We found ourselves again with the percentages in the text issued by the Commission, i.e. between 15% and 18%, and therefore too low, considering that this selective contribution should also include a number of expenditures and activities, for example for the Experimental Centre, for the Luce Cinecittà Institute, for the National Film Library, for the Venice Biennale and for others. I would therefore like to address the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi, whom we have dealt with for a long time on this point, and once again to the Undersecretary, Mr Cesaro, to take into account the amending proposal of the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi, who understood well that the percentage of selective contributions had to be increased to 25%. I would ask both of you to re-evaluate the negative opinion expressed here regarding my amendment to the Commission and to increase this percentage, not in order to do the Five Star Movement a favour, but in order to listen to the many actors in the world of cinema who, loudly and repeatedly, have asked the rapporteur and the government to reflect on this point and to grant this percentage. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u74	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u75	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u76	Madam President, I am opposed to Amendments 11.5 and 11.6 and to Amendment 11,500. I would also like to express my favourable opinion on the G11,300 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u77	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u78	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.5, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.6 tabled by Senators D'Alì and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 11,200 to 11,204 are inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 11,500 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for the G11,300 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 11 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u79	We greet the students, students and teachers of the Economic Technical Institute of Avellino. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u81	It would be necessary for people to move away from this House without making too much noise.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u82	You have the floor, Senator Stephen. STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Madam President, I rise at the end of the sitting to draw your attention and, through yours, to the Government's attention to a situation affecting my region. Since last Monday, in fact, on the railway routes to single track, without system of control of marching train (SCMT) and managed from the Railways of the South East, as a result of the railway disaster last July, the limit of speed of 50 kilometers per hour applies, as imposed and previewed from the National Agency for the railway safety. Madam President, we know that the right to security must go hand in hand with the right to mobility. South East Railways, of which the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is a single member, is not able to guarantee mobility in an authentic and, above all, decent way. The reprogramming of train schedules, due to the new speed limit, sees an extension of the duration of transits from a minimum of ten minutes to peaks of forty-five minutes. This obviously happens on paper and it will be necessary to see in reality how these changes will be translated. Railways of the South East are also responsible for the management of the routes operated by buses. For weeks now, students, especially from Campi Salentina and North Salento, have been unable to get to school on time. Several times users are not only not brought up, but are even brought down from the cars for safety reasons. Last but not least, he took the social media tour of the photo, also published later by local newspapers, of several youngsters sitting in the luggage quarters, because the space was full of passengers. I therefore ask, through this speech, Minister Delrio and you, President, to be the bearer of my request, to come and report to this House whether there is a plan for the development and modernization of the lines managed by South East Railways and if, therefore, the Ministry is working to align the mobility standards of the Apulian Region, both on track and on rubber, with those of the other Regions of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u83	I'll interpret your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u86	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, Giuseppe had started working since the age of eleven, learning the trade of bricklayer and then as a small entrepreneur, because the family, the children had arrived immediately and the greatest achievement was to give them safety and a roof where they could live peacefully. Then the problems that we now know well: the financial crisis, the customers who do not pay. The difficulties increase and you enter into a vortex of anguish and despair. Until the tax, perceived as a monster, arrives to bring you the account, not recognizing the goodness of the payments had until shortly before, not evaluating your condition of survival and dignity. The IRS wants everything and fast. Giuseppe, but it could be called with a thousand other names, it has been consumed over the years; the folders of Equitalia increased exponentially, it was impossible to return only through the sweat of one's forehead. From there the odyssey of the foreclosure of his only house, built brick on brick. He had knocked on the banks for help: nothing to do. Banks continue to keep taps closed for ordinary citizens, even though the Government has taken measures in favour of banks to restart the Italian economy. It didn't do any good. Small and medium-sized enterprises do not help them, credit institutions give money to large companies and the State facilitates large evaders, not remembering who has always paid taxes, like Joseph. As parliamentarians we have a duty to change the laws that choke the ordinary citizen. A true reform of taxation and collection must be introduced, making the high levels of taxation bearable and putting everyone in a position to possibly repay their debts, without leading people in the middle of a road, to despair or suicide. Friday the small entrepreneur did not make it; after the house was sold at auction he made the extreme gesture: he took his life. Giuseppe was a citizen of Senator Laura Bottici and mine, a good and esteemed person of Carrara, who justified those who did not pay him, because he said to his wife Antonella: "What do you want, does not pay me because he too cannot run the family". These are the true Italian entrepreneurs, solidarity and conscience, and often receive vexation treatments from a blind and deaf state to the real needs of people. Today, people who kill themselves because of economic problems account for 45% of entrepreneurs and 42% of the unemployed. Let's say it aloud: the IRS is strong with the weak and weak with the strong. But who is responsible for such choices? It's us. We legislators who direct policies and choices. We cannot allow the State and Equitalia to take away hope from the citizens. The 5 Star Movement has always fought and will continue to fight to guarantee everyone a safe roof, an income of citizenship and human laws. We earnestly desire that the State be perceived as a great mother, that in need there is and dignifiedly protects its citizens as children, each precious in his own singularity. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u87	We are obviously close to all the families involved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u90	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, boom in respiratory diseases for children in two districts of Taranto, Tamburi and Paolo II, with an increase of 24 and 26 percent for the under 14; it is the recent result of the epidemiological investigation of the Health and Environment Centre of the Puglia Region, in collaboration with the epidemiology department of the Health Service of Lazio, the ASL of Taranto, ARPA Puglia and Ares Puglia. And it is still being asked for scientific endorsement from Minister Lorenzin. Well, this important and authoritative study puts in black a cause-effect relationship between industrial emissions of the ILVA complex and the health damage found. Over 321,000 people were involved in this study in a considerable amount of time. The pollutants chosen as tracers are PM10 and SO2, i.e. fine dust and sulphur dioxide. They have been responsible for new cases of lung cancer for more than 29 percent of dust and more than 42 percent of sulphur dioxide. It's a health alert. This is the result of ten ILVA decrees, from 2012 to today; this is the result of having irresponsibly wanted to bypass the seizure of the judiciary of more than four years ago, by means of a decree. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u93	MATTESINI (PD). Madam President, I want to address two terrible facts that the chronicles of Rome and Asti told us yesterday and today. Two terrible stories that concern two minors; in Rome, that of the eleven-year-old boy, drowned in the irrigation channel in Maccarese, on which the Public Prosecutor of Civitavecchia opened a file. An article in the "Corriere della Sera" tells us in fact a sad story. It turns out that to psychologists, support teachers and assistants made available by the City of Fiumicino, the child had told of being beaten, of various ill-treatments and a few months ago, in front of the support teachers, had burst into tears, in a desperate cry saying: "I am sick of this life, I am now killing myself. I don't want to go to school anymore because everyone's mad at me here and they're making fun of me. All things to try. All to understand. But the terrible pain and death of the child remains. The second episode took place in the province of Asti. She is a ten - year - old girl who had serious problems at school with mental illness. This little girl is always represented with sweaters with long sleeves, even in summer, to cover bruises and redness; a little girl always dismayed, messy. She is abused by her father and mother, threatened with death, left without food and terrified. The investigators, who after the school reports intervened with environmental investigations, called it a Cinderella. In fact, the sister was bought clothes and toys and was fed with the best food. To her nothing, only barrels and phrases of the type "we carry you in the woods and we make you eat by wolves and wild boars" or "we throw you in the garbage". The parents were arrested and the two girls entrusted to social services. It seems like two news reports, two isolated events, but they are not exceptional cases and it would be wrong if we thought that the issue of child abuse and abuse was simply exceptional cases. Even behind these two episodes, like the many others that happen, there is a black hole, a chasm and, that is, the inability of adults and institutions to listen to children, to protect them and protect them even in terrible situations of this type. In fact, in too many parts of Italy there is a poor presence of services; in others a complete absence; in other regions, therefore to spot of leopard, there are also important services. Italy needs to be equipped, everywhere and in any case, with services in which these unhappy children, with problems of mistreatment, can find hospitality. I take this opportunity to remind you that in too many regions the Guarantor for Childhood and Adolescence has not been renamed and in others, which is serious, this figure has been added to that of other guarantors such as that for privacy and the Ombudsman. On the other hand, I believe that there must also be a strong appeal on our part to the Regions, because the national law says precise things about the autonomy of the Guarantor for childhood and adolescence, which must be a unique figure of guarantor, because childhood deserves and needs a single guarantor. The work presented by the Guarantor for Childhood and Adolescence, the result of collaboration with experts in the field of abuse and abuse of children, had emphasized the need to intervene with immediate assurances of protection, but also with listening and with the psychotherapeutic attention necessary for the elaboration of the trauma to which these children are taken. In Italy we have tough laws against abuse and abuse, but we do not - as I said before - have an adequate network of services able to cure and protect children and abused children. We have services present as a leopard, but where they are structured, there is the problem of the shortage of staff: for example, social workers are few, often in fixed time, and therefore follow each other; just think that often only one social worker, who also deals with other issues, can have in charge even one hundred children entrusted, so with a difficulty to really take care of it. This also applies to other professions. The government has, in recent years, corrected the shot and started an important change of pace on minors. Just think of the specific intervention against educational and material poverty, with specific funding, and other important measures in support of parenthood. However, we must continue on this path and strengthen it, including through the strengthening of the service network. I say this very clearly: we must choose and support, together with individual interventions, the strengthening of the network of services to support parenthood and create services capable of welcoming, caring for and protecting abused and abused children; services and therefore on the network, and a programming capacity for integration, ranging from schools to social health integration, able to work together on parenthood, support, therefore also on prevention, and then also on taking charge. This - as I said before - particularly concerns the regions which still have total autonomy and social and health skills; the regions themselves need to put this issue at the centre of their work. The regions that have good practice ask for pride and visibility of their work, also because good practice is needed to be able to start from positive experiences. We are at a stage in which we are discussing the law of stability and I think one of the things we should try to work on is the following: if we want to implement and strengthen the network of services, we need to reason on the need for an unblocking of the turnover for certain social and health professions; perhaps a targeted unblocking, because I believe that preventing, curing and protecting minors from abuse and abuse requires the continuity of taking charge, and continuity is given primarily by the stability of the staff. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-Idv Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u96	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, I read in the e-mails that we all receive a hallucinating stance on the "Cucchi case" by COISP, lilliputian police union always chasing new members, by the voice of Secretary Maccari. Honestly, I don't know who Maccari is, I only know him from the local Veneto news, where we read that he probably stopped a train on which he traveled to a station where he didn't have to stop, so that he could get off, spending his trade union figure, with the agents of the railway police. Having said that, I can only express deep amazement at the report of the experts appointed by the judge for preliminary investigations. The bruises on Cucchi's body come from what? How did they form? They are a clear sign of beating, unworthy of state representatives. Surely those bruises are no sign of an epileptic attack. Let's say enough to the "apple marches" in the Forces of the Order: we owe it to those who, with the uniform, work for the good of the citizen and the legality. Clean yourself up among the Forces of Order, approve the code of the uniforms and do justice. I agree with the Guardasigilli's recent statements on the behaviour of the participating prison guard of the program "Great Brother Vip" and I share his concerns. Finally, I bring solidarity to Ilaria and the entire Cucchi family for yet another slap at their and at our pain. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u99	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, on the night of 24 August a violent earthquake affected central Italy and in particular some regions such as Lazio and Marche. More than forty days have already passed; feelings of mourning, participation in pain and state funerals are fine, but to date there are no measures relating to reconstruction. On 1 September, Minister Padoan adopted a ministerial decree for the suspension of payments; this too is good, but already the decree asks some questions: is it only the municipalities that benefit from the suspension of payments those who will be able to benefit from the reconstruction aid? I think it's time to set up a precise mapping of the municipalities that were affected by the earthquake on 24 August. Secondly, the decree is needed to start the reconstruction, because many buildings, temporarily inaccessible, with very few interventions, even not excessively expensive, can be returned to families or, if public, to the community. I understand that the earthquake has been of great intensity and that therefore there are difficulties with regard to this point, but since I am also mayor I must say that in the municipality I have not received any request for quantification of the damage. If the government or the earthquake commissioner were to make this request to me, we could say - for example - that there are EUR 2 million of damage to be sustained in my municipality. We could already quantify the sum in a very brief way, but already in the budget law that the government is due to present next week we could expect some sums. It is clear that long-term resources must also be established for reconstruction: it will take at least four or five years to restore housing, cultural assets, public buildings and infrastructure, but it is worth starting. Now comes the winter and the population is worried, because clearly no one wants to pass in the tents a winter that could also be particularly rigid. I therefore believe that we must give a signal that, if in the meantime there are real estate that can be returned to use by making small interventions, we can start, we can take care, because the related expenses will cover them in this way. To date, the municipalities concerned do not have a single penny. For my part there is no will to exploit the situation, but I think we must give a small signal to start doing something. Those who have gone around the municipalities will have seen that there are many buildings covered with red cloths; some of them over two or three months could be recovered and returned, thus reducing this cemetery image to which some municipalities have been condemned.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u102	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Madam President, I come back to the question of hepatitis C both because I have been asked by some of my colleagues and because my motion 1-00603 has not been scheduled. The price of the new hepatitis C medicines is imposed, for each country, at the highest possible level, taking into account national wealth, so that it is sustainable only on condition of treating a minority of patients. In this way an unprecedented rationing is required, which not only violates equality in the face of health, but forces the use of drugs in the most serious patients, who can benefit little, and to wait for those who might avoid irreversible damage to the liver to be increased. It's not a side effect, but it's wanted. Governments that would like to use the flexibility provided for in the international treaties to ensure access to essential, but too expensive, medicines are often threatened by undue political or economic pressure from other states or multinational companies, as written in the report on access to medicines, produced by a panel of experts appointed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations and published on 14 September. The gap between the profit-driven innovation model and the priorities of the right to health has reached the threshold of break, as reported in the British magazine "The Lancet" which headlines: The status quo is no longer an option. In other words, so we can't go on. But can we continue with compulsory licences even in rich countries like Italy? This seems difficult if we do not find a way to change the current power relationships that allow multinationals and major powers (U.S. in the lead) to block in the bud any attempt to use the flexibility margins of trade agreements to guarantee the right to health. The whole issue lies in patents: born to protect the intellectual rights of researchers and encourage innovation, they have now become a simple leverage. The case of Sofosbuvir is not unique, but exemplary from this point of view as well. Patents developed by small companies are then sold to amounts that have no connection with the R &amp; D costs already incurred, but appear to be calculated on the basis of the profits that can be expected. The result is disastrous in terms of both efficiency and fairness. I repeat, the price of the new hepatitis C medicines is imposed, for each country, at the highest possible level for national wealth, so that it is sustainable only on condition of treating a minority of patients. In this way an unprecedented rationing is required, which not only violates equality in front of health, but forces the use of drugs in the most serious patients, who can benefit little, and to wait for those who could avoid irreversible damage to the liver to be increased. This - in my opinion - is not an undesirable effect, but wanted. The trouble is that prices, the so-called delinked, are actually already freed from any reasonable point of reference and it will be difficult to back down without reviewing all the logic of the domain of profit in health activities. That is why I call on you to sign and above all to question my motion. It may be a somewhat complex mechanism, perhaps even a little too simple, perhaps even a clever one, as someone has said, but it is a way to get away from this mechanism based solely on profit and not on the health of the population.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-692.ana.u103	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.48 p.m.
