ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 6 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11.07 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00626 by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00639 by Senator Taverna and other senators, 1-00641 by Senator Simeoni and other senators, 1-00644 by Senator De Biasi and other senators, and 1-00645 by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, on public health campaigns. I call Senator De Petris to explain motion No 626.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u5	Mr President, as the Italian Left, we have decided to table motion No 626 because not only us, but all the public opinion has been deeply affected by the advertising campaign promoted by Minister Lorenzin on the so-called Fertility day, in which emerges an image - almost threatening - of the woman with the hourglass, which in our opinion recalls the ancient idea of the woman reduced only to body and nature and forced to have children. It is, therefore, a completely regressive message and a strong ideological imprint in our view. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u6	I am sorry to interrupt you, Senator, but I would like you to lower your voice so that you can follow the explanation of the motion clearly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u7	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). The theme of Christmas, contrary to the ideological and aggressive imprint that was intended to give to the communication campaign, is very serious. ISTAT data show that the new births are constantly decreasing: in 2015 the births were 488,000 (-15,000), a new historical minimum from the Unity of Italy. 2015 is the fifth consecutive year of reduction of fertility, reaching 1.35 children per woman. The decision to bring children into the world is increasingly postponed, as documented by the increase in the average age of mothers at childbirth. We believe that addressing this problem so serious on the part of the Government and the Ministry by blows of authoritarian pedagogy is absolutely misleading and ineffective, because to renounce or postpone the choice of having a child lies within a complex series of reasons that concern not only subjectivity (in which of course sexuality, love, future, freedom, relationship between the sexes and trust in the future) and that cannot be simplified with voluntary references or even less related only to social and economic parameters. Low growth or demographic decline is, in the first place, a problem that needs to be addressed in a global dimension. A national fertility plan to support births in our country must move from the affirmation of the freedom of choice of motherhood and the right to reproductive health and above all from the promotion of robust active and structural policies to guarantee the autonomy of people and respect for their life choices that create the conditions of support to the choice of children. We need a new welfare system and more social and educational services in it: social recognition of care, income support, parental leave incentives for men, more organized women's work in order to be able to take care of human relations. Many European realities show that there is a direct relationship between women's access to work, birth and general well-being. Italy, on the other hand, confirms itself as one of the European countries with the lowest female employment, and this strongly affects the same possibility of determining its own life plan. The data of the Eurispes Report 2015 have highlighted the incidence of precariousness and uncertainty for the future in the growth of the number of those who do not feel able to give guarantees to their family with their work. These are the real issues at the root of the problem of denatality, which do not resolve with an absolutely wrong advertising campaign and - I dare say - horrible, which then got further aggravated on September 21 with the second tranche, when other posters were issued, in which are even portrayed the good habits to follow and the bad companions: the first are associated with a group of white and smiling boys, while in the second image, related to bad companions, a group of children (of whom one, in the foreground, is black) smoke. It is not only an ideological and aggressive message against women, reduced to mere nature and materiality, but also a racist message. Therefore, in our motion we ask with great determination not only to cancel the campaign definitively, but to take initiatives to predict that 22 September really becomes a day of training and information on the right to reproductive health for the prevention of fertility; to affirm the principle of freedom in procreative choices; to invest resources really aimed at a plan of prevention of infertility; to take initiatives to ensure access to the techniques of assisted fertilization throughout the national territory, promoting the knowledge and practice of the donation of gametes in compliance with safety standards; to guarantee to everyone and to all access to innovative medicines; to include endometriosis among the priority objectives of health research and, above all, since we enter the budgetary session, to take initiatives for clear choices of economic, social and structural policy, aimed at supporting the autonomy of people, removing the social obstacles that may affect the desire of motherhood. We also call for an extraordinary plan to promote and support women's work with incentives and organisational arrangements based on the new relationship between production and reproduction, as well as social recognition and the enhancement of care work also through the development of European-style social infrastructures and to take effective initiatives also within the European Union to provide for the exclusion of compliance with the Stability Pact for expenditure on social services and welfare. Finally, but not because of importance, we call for initiatives to recognise the time devoted to care activities for pension purposes (with the recognition of figurative contributions linked to the number of children and any other care commitments for other elderly persons in the family, as well as the recognition of contributory supplements for part-time work for reasons of care and the possibility of early retirement for the need for care of non-self-sufficient persons), in the framework of a revision of the pension system which includes flexibility and freedom of choice, and to take steps to increase the tax relief for maternity for working women, particularly for small and micro-enterprises, on which costs have a proportionally greater impact. Above all, Mr President, we would also like to have explanations from the Government about the real costs of this advertising campaign; resources which could, on the other hand, be spent on much more effective interventions to support women's reproductive health. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u8	I call Senator Taverna to explain motion No 639.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u9	Mr President, if I were to address Minister Lorenzin today as a preeminent woman who is playing a predominantly masculine role, having in a narcissistic way a profile of studies that has, in a selfish way, removed her from what was her real function, that is, to put children in the world to guarantee welfare, do you think that she might be struck by this kind of affirmation? Because the advertising campaign with which the Minister wanted to focus attention on the serious problem of birth is only the tip of the iceberg of a National Fertility Plan which, in 139 pages, is a constant insult to the role of women both as mothers and as a fundamental part of society and as a human being. Minister Lorenzin, on page 39 of the Plan, writes: The confirmation of the model of the single-celled family, with the first child procreated from attested Well, the attitent primevals are women who, probably, before bringing a child into the world, had to study, work, create a position, find a home, give dignity to their own person and give the possibility to the child who brought the world to have, at least, the assurance that in the morning there was a breakfast and in the evening a dinner. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella]] These are the attitent primordials. And these same primes are found in a society that has had to escort women out of the house, opening them the doors of the world of work, pushing them, however, towards male roles. And how does Minister Lorenzin classify the role of Minister, a male or female role? Or, tell us what the roles that women have to play within society in order to guarantee welfare are in the National Fertility Plan. Because that's what Lorenzin says. Since women don't have children, we can't guarantee welfare. I'd like to tell Lorenzin that if a welfare was guaranteed, women would probably have children. But a normal woman does not have the possibility, like the Minister, to receive a salary of almost 20,000 euros and does not have the possibility, as the Minister has instead, to enjoy an insurance that has probably allowed her not to have to make the request to the National Health Service, for a morphological ultrasound (which is done at a precise period of pregnancy, and when the National Health Service sets an appointment for when the child is already five years old, at that point the mother is fully aware if he is healthy or not). The Minister probably did not have to stand in line at 7 a.m. for the blood test in convention, because this health service is guaranteed by the private insurance that the House provides. Why don't you know? Why is the Minister allowed to write that the education of women is one of the reasons that led to the selfish choice not to have children? But did you read the National Fertility Plan? This Plan merely specifies how long an egg lasts and how long the sperm is. So, you, woman, why are you studying? Why are you going to work? Why do you struggle to reconcile, in the morning when you get up, breakfast to your children, with taking them to school, going to work, going home, shopping, cleaning up the house? Why are you doing this? Stay home! Don't study! When you're 20 years old, you have a son, when your ovaries are still able to procreate, so your husband can do it until you're 70. Outside the shameful propaganda campaign, which saw the woman with the hourglass in her hand and waiting for the stork, and out of the second shameful campaign, who even saw the healthy woman if she is blonde and white, and sick if she is of different color or is possibly smoking a cigarette, there is really a meltdown from reality. If Lorenzin really wants to do something for women, leave the role of Health Minister to someone who may be more able to understand what a woman is. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u10	I call Senator Simeoni to explain motion 641.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u11	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will not dwell on the text of the motion. I would just like to make a few simple points which inspired it. The campaign conceived and promoted by the Ministry of Health at the event called Fertility day caused a wave of discontent in a large part of the citizens, especially women, who perhaps had to be the main beneficiaries of this initiative. I would start with the opportunity of the initiative itself: a day dedicated to fertility, therefore to procreation, promoted by a government that has not been able to take any other initiative in support of motherhood and the family more generally. No serious results in these two years of government on the reduction of youth unemployment or the protection of mother workers. No effective action or initiative to address the home problem, the problem of kindergartens; not to mention the cut in health care services linked mainly to prevention and early diagnosis, for which Italians must now resort to private facilities. The mantra is always the same: there are no resources. And that is precisely why we ask the Government to undertake to verify and make public the cost that the Ministry has incurred for the two withdrawn campaigns. In addition, with a view to a definitive clarity regarding the events, we ask that the Government undertake to clarify and make public the decision-making process in force at the Ministry of Health and the regulation of the institutions of delegation and authorizations. Finally, in the respect of our citizens, especially those who, not enjoying economic convenience, are more vulnerable, we ask that the Government, verifying the responsibilities for the events of the withdrawal promotional campaigns, undertake to take every possible action to restore the public money so unnecessarily spent in the availability of the Ministry, with the hope to see it then destined for actions or initiatives more consistent with the now urgent needs of the people. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator De Biasi to explain motion No 644.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u12	Mr President, there is no doubt that a communication campaign, which is very poor from a communicative and professional point of view, even before it has changed the perception of public opinion and Parliament itself about the aims of the fertility project, namely the National Fertility Plan, which, as we know, belongs to the Ministry in its autonomy and which, as in the case of all these plans, has never been discussed in Parliament. So we take note of a text on which there has been no discussion; but it is normal to do so. Precisely for this reason, I must say that the unhappiness of the dual communication campaign has further obscured content that, on the other hand, must be reported. First of all, the first element is that we must not confuse the theme of fertility, if we can call it that, with that of birth. I believe that the word "fertility" can be left to a part of scientific literature and that vice versa the appropriate term is "reproductive health" for women and men. We know what this also means with regard to Italian legislation, in part still to be corrected - I am thinking of Law No 40 of 2004 on medically assisted procreation, which I would ask no longer to call on assisted fertilization because it is medically assisted procreation - in particular because the Constitutional Court's judgments must be complied with. There is a health issue that concerns the health of women and men, sterility, but also prevention policies. We would like the debate to focus on this: that our boys and our girls may have talks, moments and points of reference for the development of awareness of their sexuality. We would like there to be serious contraception in this country that does not only intervene on women's bodies and that is not exclusively remedial, placing itself within a prevention strategy. From this point of view, we ask that we go back from the decision of Aifa, which is most inappropriate, to charge the contraceptive pill. This is a shame! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Simeoni]] It is part of the strategies for preventing abortion to have effective contraception and, I think, also widespread and free of charge. We ask that we turn back on this point, as we ask that Fertility day be spoken with the Italian language and be called "Reproductive Health Day," in which we can inform and train people on this very important issue that concerns everyone's life and the future of this country. [[Applause from Senators Carraro and Bianconi.]] Then there is the theme of birth and birth. Overtaking the two floors is a very incorrect operation, because we cannot be so summary and think that there is an automatism between economic conditions and the possibility of having children. There is a undoubted relationship, but it does not stop there; we owe it to the barren people, to the lack of research into the causes of infertility and especially of the male one, on which nothing is ever said because we always talk about women. [[Applause from Senator Cirinna]] On the other hand, there is a male subject who perhaps should investigate his health a little better than he has done so far. The theme of birth has to do with social policies, of the family, for the individual and the couple. This is the subject and, therefore, we ask that there be a funded interministerial plan that deals with the social opportunities provided to be able to have children. This means thinking about an idea of society and, therefore, also policies adapted to the need. However, I would like to return to the point of health and social health, on which we have been practicing for a long time, also in the debate on constitutional reform. There is a service called a consultory, which was approved by a 1975 law, followed by regional laws. This service should serve exactly to be a moment of interception of people's need on their reproductive health. It is a service that has not been refinanced, in which there are no professional profiles and which has become weak, while we believe, in line with the Health Pact, that the choice cannot be only the hospital one and that there should be territorial services and consultors. The rights of the couple are very important and have also been enshrined in recent judgments. There is a right to parenthood; there is a need for strong reforms, starting with Law No. 40 of 2004, but above all there is a need - I must say this also for the history of women in this country - for a more serious plan than has been done so far on the life and reproductive health of women, from adolescence - with vaccines against papilloma virus - until birth and after childbirth. On the choice and conscious freedom of being or not being a mother even today we are firm to the non-application of Law No. 194 of 1978 and with the shame of the objector doctors, who object to making a career. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u13	I call Senator Bonfrisco to explain motion 645.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u14	Mr President, a great opportunity has been lost: that of being able to debate, or at least open an important cultural debate on an issue that concerns our country like all developed countries and the Western Front as a whole. The establishment of a national day dedicated to the theme that, as Senator De Biasi has already said, perhaps it was better to call differently from Fertility day, could represent an opportunity to draw attention to how our society is composing or breaking down and where it is going. It was simply a matter of focusing, even if with great emphasis, the danger of birth, the beauty of motherhood and fatherhood, the risk of diseases that prevent becoming parents, the help of medicine - before it is too late - for women and men who cannot have children. On the other hand, storks, hourglasses, wilted bananas, one-child anxiety and an informative booklet that knows banally about racism have completely diverted attention from the real issue in question and provided wonderful assists to satire and the web. But it's not funny. It's not funny when the image that wanted to represent this campaign has painted women as expired yogurt. Needless to say, it is for us sacrosanct a policy that deals with the health of women, from birth to procreation to menopause, as would be a sexual education in schools, that helps to grow both sexes in mutual respect, love and knowledge, to which today, unfortunately, adolescents come more often through other ways, all linked to the network, and sometimes with harmful consequences. They accuse the Italians of making too few children. But do we want to remember that kindergartens are a rare and expensive asset from us? Not to mention the scourge of female unemployment that we never seem to get rid of? We could go on with statistics, but they do not exhaust the indignation caused by this campaign. You should read the entire document to get definitively angry, as Senator Taverna did before, because the point straight is enclosed in some phrases of this type: What, then, to do in front of a society that has escorted women out of the house, opening their doors in the world of work pushing them, however, towards male roles, which have also led to a departure from the desire for motherhood itself? Undersecretary De Filippo, you, in addition to being so exquisite as to be present this morning, should tell your Minister that the Members of this House are pointing out that your role has been seriously affected by an approach that I do not know if it is flour from your sack. Of course, probably, it is sack flour of those who, badly selected, poured into this campaign all its banal masculinism. But this is just one of the many gems of a document that many have compared to an edict by Minculpop. The language used, in fact, would have been more suitable for the dictatorships that have always tried to legislate on the body of women. But it gets worse. Eva Cantarella, historian of the ancient world, tells an anecdote that, not by chance, remembers how they could better react to Roman women when the good Augustus, in order to encourage fertility (even at the time there was the need for a Fertility day) imposed on all, except the prostitutes, to marry, punishing with patrimonial sanctions those who could not have children. In protest, the Roman towns went en masse to register on the list of prostitutes, to mock the emperor. I do not know what we should say today in front of the sly people who went from the Internet to the address of this Government and the Minister. We are very sorry, as women, to know that we have a women's minister, who has been a mother for a short time (maybe you too are a little older, to take up the definition used in your document), who, instead of enhancing and defending the role of motherhood and fatherhood in our society, treats them in this way. It is stated in a government press release on the Fertility Day initiative that the problem of birth directly affects many sectors, in the economic, social, health and social fields. The Minister should then address the problem precisely from this data, because it is these data - the economic, social, health and social - that are conditioning - alas - the lives of the people and mothers who have to deal today, even better than they did in the past, with an economic, social, services and maternity support problem that are not and do not arrive anywhere. This aid does not come, especially in the most delicate months in which a woman faces all this, when precisely that health system that should protect her, protect her, give her a preferential lane and show a face completely different from what characterizes her organizational model, leaves her to herself, to her initiative and to her ability, even economic, to prepare her best for motherhood. With regard to the issue of pregnancy interruption, which was first touched on by Senator De Biasi, many reports, analyses, insights and statistics show that only proper education can help us prevent a distortion of the subject of motherhood, such as abortion, can be considered. So much has been done by the women who preceded us. In this Parliament today we are celebrating a censor to a minister who has put miles behind the culture and dignity of women. We should not be asking her to resign, but she should understand on her own that she has shown a great deal that she cannot play that role. Have the decency to resign and return to Italian women the primacy of a role, like that of the Minister of Health, that many other women have played with unparalleled skill (of course unparalleled by Minister Lorenzin).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u15	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u16	Mr President, all the motions that have been put forward are based on a shared basis: criticism of the activities carried out by Minister Lorenzin. What is most astonishing, however, is the intervention of the President of the Senate Health Commission. Even Senator De Biasi illustrated her motion, while maintaining some institutional grace, did not fail to express a dissent and a strong criticism of the activities of the Minister of Health. I would therefore like to understand, given that the President of the Health Commission is a majority in this House and Minister Lorenzin is a majority minister: if the criticism of Minister Lorenzin starts from within, I believe that the President of the Council of Ministers and the Government itself should also begin to give serious consideration to the Minister's ability to represent the lines of the Government. Then, either you share the Minister's lines and the Minister is in tune with the Government or, if the majority does not share them, it means that the Minister is not appropriate to remain there. Among the many motions I would feel, however, to subscribe to that of Senator De Petris, because she grasps an aspect that, for the truth, I had already grasped and that I find of an unheard of gravity: our Minister Lorenzin arrogates himself the right to determine who must live and who must die. The first-signed motion of Senator De Petris, in point 9, calls for all and all access to innovative medicines, with particular reference to those for hepatitis C, to prevent diseases in pregnancies. 11.42 a.m. (Falanga followed). Well, the cure for hepatitis C is a theme that I cared about; perhaps it has escaped the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, who should have fought it and maybe they would have had more title than me. You must know that our country for this innovative therapy - it seems to me that it lasts thirty days - that leads to total healing from hepatitis C, has treated the purchase initially for 37,000 euros, then renegotiated to 17,000 or 18,000 euros, and I do not know now to what it is purchased. Well, in Africa this innovative therapy has a cost of 800 euros; in France it ranges from 4,000 to 6,000 euros, while in Italy the cure costs more than in any other country. And Minister Lorenzin commits her time to advertising campaigns that are completely distraught with Italians, Italians and diversity. He plays the Minister and forgets to consider that perhaps if he committed his time to dealing with America with the purchase of this medicine as well as other countries, perhaps we would see more citizens enjoying this benefit. There are only four centres in Campania - and I am therefore also addressing my colleagues in Campania - which provide this kind of care. When, however, an ultra-seven-year-old citizen asks for it, this is heard from the center that the cure cannot be given to him because it has been established that those over seventy must die and must not live. I, for the truth, even if God or a Saint told me such a thing, I would probably react violently. If a kind lady who has the role of Minister of my country were to tell me, I would not use vulgar expressions, but probably the Minister who takes such measures would deserve much more criticism than the President of the Health Commission De Biasi. I therefore ask you to sign the motion at the first signature of Senator De Petris. Moreover, while I realize that this is not the time to make such a request, I invite Minister Lorenzin to leave room for those who are probably more competent, serious and attentive to the real problems of Italians and Italians. Moreover, the majority would do well not to distract themselves and to look after those who entrust the responsibilities of government in a sector of the state so incisive and decisive for the health of all of us. [[Applause from the AL-A Group and Senator Bonfrisco]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u17	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u18	Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment. An organism grows when it's healthy and can't grow when it's not well. Beyond the considerations and quotations of precise rules and situations, our society is not well, our young people are not well. Generally, when you consciously choose to have a child, you do so by making a bet on the future. In our present society it is not easy to bet on the future. Our young people are unable to find work until the age of thirty, thirty-five or forty years and often, for this reason, cannot get away from their parents'home. In view of this, trying to imagine an increase in the willingness to procreate through an advertising campaign gives the sense of a net meltdown with reality. That is not what we need: we need to give a credible life perspective and a protection network to people. On the other hand, the public protection network is depleted day by day due to the reduction of health expenditure. A few days ago I spoke with the mayor of Petralia Sottana, who reminded me that the absence of a birth point in a mountain country, which will now become difficult to reach due to snow and bad weather, forces families to move to larger countries, such as Termini Imerese, in order to be able to give birth safely, thus downloading on families (on young families or parents) the expenditure for care and safety during childbirth. On the other hand, the social protection network is failing because our children are increasingly forced to live elsewhere, with the result that, apart from the absence of the public, there is also the absence of families. Ours is becoming a society without grandchildren, since we all already know that our children are going to live elsewhere to look for work. If we want to imagine a society that grows and makes children, we should think of a society in which living becomes a bet of happiness and not an attempt to resist to survive. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u19	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u20	Mr President, I would like to thank the senators and the senators very much without any problems for having wished to draw attention once again to a subject of reproductive health, the importance of which, from a health and social point of view, cannot but be confirmed here once again, even with the different positions that are clearly visible and clearly resonate in this House. Allow me to make a few brief general comments before expressing my views on motions. The National Day is aimed - these are the objectives - to increase in the population, especially in the youngest, the knowledge of their reproductive health, to provide tools to protect the fertility of men and women through preventive actions (quite known in our Italian health system, even if differently realized, and not systematically, as is expected and committed to doing this plan); the early diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, which can - as is known to us all - compromise the future of ontologically free choices in people's lives, as well as to provide the right elements of knowledge on medically assisted procreation techniques, which - as is well known - has been introduced, even with positive legislative action, in our country in recent times. Important steps in the National Fertility Plan have been read, but I hope page 17 has also been read, in which there is a very long list of technicians and scientists who have contributed to this work. I realize that a plan also requires a punctual analysis - I would say even semiotic words - but, as I think you have noticed, that Plan has been compiled on the basis of assessments, which I would like to define as technical, scientific, by a broad group of scientists with an absolutely vast, cross-cutting cultural orientation, who had to support an initiative of the Ministry by subtracting it from a debate that in this matter can be very Manichaean, in the sense of opposing legitimate assessments of an ideological type that, however, should be excluded from a technical-scientific assessment. In this sense, the World Health Organization, just a few weeks ago, adopted a resolution, within the European Regional Committee of the same Organization, with which the countries of the European region committed themselves to implementing the Action Plan - it is called that - for sexual and reproductive health on our continent. In this context and with these objectives, and in many simple aspects, aims, we can summarize and evaluate the scope of that day of 22 September, that is, an opportunity to start - it has also been started with some elements of criticism - a debate, we hope very constructive, on issues such as reproductive health and infertility, with the various actors involved: from health workers to patient associations, scientific societies, young people, couples, families, but also the media and those who want to properly take care of this matter in terms of information. The National Plan sets this very principle - and I would like to stress this because it was called up in the debate - in order to promote birth. While the development of cross-sectoral policies, obviously strong, and interinstitutional in support of parenthood is essential - and in the motions have been transcribed many agreeable initiatives, which must be taken even more in order to promote this front - health and educational policies are indispensable for the protection of reproductive health able to improve knowledge in citizens and to promote their awareness in favour of change. Prevention activities on girls and boys are good practices known in some parts of our country, which we hope can be spread in a more consistent and uniform way at national level. In this regard - and I conclude - our country is also participating at European level in a work on the so-called environmental causes that can have negative effects on these elements in terms of health. I want to add one last thought on an important topic that concerns endometriosis, reported in some of the motions. In the National Plan a specific reference is made to this pathology, to try to make a contribution in terms of knowledge: it is known that it has negative effects that can compromise the fertility of the woman. It is no coincidence that endometriosis, in the most serious forms, has been included in the new essential levels of assistance (LEA), which are in the attention of Parliament's work. Indeed, the new definition of LEAs will recognize new forms of health care and coverage for this type of disease. The same applies to the work of training and information that can be done with doctors of general medicine and through a specific initiative put in place with the National Federation of Medical Surgeons and Dentistry (FNOMCEO), without neglecting the work of strengthening the active offer of the consultors - reported in some motions - in both informative and formative terms, after the intervention of Law No 405 of 1975, which needs to be strengthened and implemented - as has been reported - with new investments and new choices, also at regional and corporate level. In this context, the Government's opinions on motions try to gather, through the commitments that are reported in them, everything that is in tune with what I wanted to describe quickly. On the other hand, with regard to the parties which have a connotation of institutional and political evaluation, albeit legitimate, but not acceptable to us, we will propose to the proposers of the motions some rewordings that, if accepted, would allow us to give a favourable opinion. I will proceed in order, trying to be as clear as possible in the proposals for reformulation. Motion No 626, first signed by Senator De Petris, may be accepted if paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9,10, 11, 12, 13, 17 and 18 are expounded in the premises. Unfortunately, in the text of the motion, these paragraphs are not indicated by numbers, but there is no other way to indicate them in this way. Having given a form to the offices that assist us in our work in this House, I hope that the rewording will be clear. I call for this part of the premises to be expunged, therefore, while, as far as the provisions are concerned, we are opposed to commitments no. I and 2, which we therefore call for to be deleted, and for the other commitments, the opinion is in favour, subject to rewording of commitments no. 16, 17, 18 and 19, in which we ask that the well-known formula be inserted, the Government is committed to assessing the possibility of the formula. As far as motion 639 is concerned, first signed by Senator Taverna, even in this case it will not escape that there are parts of the motion that we do not agree with and we therefore ask Senator Taverna to accept their rewording. In order to give a favourable opinion, we call for paragraphs 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 13, 14, 16, 18 and 19 to be taken into account. As far as commitments are concerned, the opinion is in favour, provided that it is added, in commitments no. 4 and 5, the well-known formula whereby the Government is committed to assessing the possibility of dimming. If this reformulation were accepted, we would be in favour. The opinion is totally opposed to motion 641, at the first signature of Senator Simeoni, while it is totally in favour of motion 644, at the first signature of Senator De Biasi. I am in favour, provided that the rewordings I am about to make on Senator Bonfrisco's motion No 645 are accepted. We would call for paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 18 and 19 to be taken into account and for commitments to be entered into. 1, 2 and 3, while we call for commitment No 7 to be preceded by the formula: "to assess the possibility of "-." We have tried to do a job respectful of the proposals made by the Groups, trying to have a more institutional approach, having perceived that, apart from certain positions and political and institutional judgements on certain moments of the affair, there are proposals that we could also accept in the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u21	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u24	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I will be very brief. First of all, I would like to thank the Undersecretary De Filippo for his kindness. However, emptying a motion in its fundamental points is not a good way to deal with it or to share it with the government. I realize that the majority motion, presented by Senator De Biasi, is the one that the Government can accept best. However, I note the profound contradictions between the Minister's action and Senator De Biasi's motion. I therefore invite you to make peace with each other at least and - as Senator Falanga has already reminded you - to address this issue as it really must be done. I would add that the controversy and the vibrant protest of the citizens for the strongly racist and penalising message for Italian women, which the second campaign spread, were faced by Minister Lorenzin lifting from office and dismissing the head of communication of his Dicastery. The amounts allocated for the campaign turn out to be 113,000 euros and the advertising agency that managed the campaign was chosen through a public call called 18 December 2015 and closed ten days later: a really commendable speed in a ministerial and bureaucratic activity that usually takes much more time and moves more slowly; evidently the speed was used to select an advertising agency that was so shared by the structure and by the Minister that it could not but do well and instead - as you have seen - it did very badly. That economic damage to the Italian community and to the taxes that citizens pay, we hope to be somehow cured by someone who, under his personal responsibility, responds to such a wrong action. The Minister will continue to respond to the role he cannot play, which he is unable to play, on this front as on many others. I understand very well the realpolitik of the Undersecretary De Filippo; to you I leave the majority motion together with his Minister, while to us of the opposition it remains to stigmatize once again the attitude of a government that puts its head in the sand and does not really deal with the problems. Furthermore, that a minister called into question by many Members of this House does not even have the courage to appear in this House, was just to defend his action, he already says everything.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u27	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, our Group will vote in favour of all motions, including those tabled by the majority. Mrs De Biasi, in fact, has well understood in her speech the difficulties in carrying out this advertising campaign, which had to lead to a result other than a simple motion. President, in late session speeches already three or four times I have asked you to have answers from the Minister of Health on acts of inspection union that concerned the Italian Agency of the drug (Aifa), hepatitis C and Fertility day; several issues, as Senator Falanga has well grasped in his speech, which represent our criticism of a Ministry that is actually increasing health spending when in other countries they make it decrease. Among other things, I ask Senator Maurizio Romani to sign his act 1-00603 because we share it as a Group. It is interesting and important because it speaks of all chronic diseases, which will be the subject of the next session, which could be cured, bringing an improvement in the quality of life and a saving on pharmaceutical spending. It would suffice to carry out a real control over the Aifa, and not a sponsorship check of 50,000 euros for the feast of Communion and Liberation, of 700,000 in advance of salary to the president or the managing director of Aifa. So you don't go anywhere. All the motions put forward by the Groups will have our vote in favour because we believe that bringing quality of life, acting on health, is a duty of all of us and in each motion, by majority or minority, the spirit is aimed at meeting the health of the citizens. That is why, responsibly, we will vote for them all. In conclusion, I agree with those who say that the Minister must have the courage to come here because, if he does not, it is good that he does not even belong to the Ministry of Health. [[Applause from Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u30	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we have listened to the words of Sub-Greek De Filippo and we understand his difficulties. He explained to us the government's commitment to health policies, but we understand the calmness with which he spoke. It is clear to everyone, in fact, that we are facing an incredible, to say the least, embarrassing affair for a European country in 2016. The topic under discussion today is the choice of the government of the Fertility Day campaign that surprised everyone. And I am also thinking of many of those who are in government, starting with the President of the Council. After years of cuts in public health, with millions of Italians forced to give up treatment, with an absent public welfare, support for non-existent motherhood, endless cuts in education and services, all for the benefit of the private, we found ourselves in front of the advertising campaign of Fertility day; an initiative to say the least grotesque, which is commented on by itself, as the interventions of all colleagues have explained widely. This episode, however, gives the figure of how far the Minister Lorenzin is completely far from reality, despite having been in office for two years. We wonder then in which country he has lived in these years; if he had remained here, with his eyes turned to the real country, he would have noticed that, if in Italy they do not have children, it is because public welfare does not exist. There are no serious policies to support motherhood. There are no policies for work. The social elevator is still and there is no government that pairs wanting to change course with respect to gifts to private individuals, the progressive privatization of the health system, austerity policies, cuts in services. If we want to talk about fertility from a health point of view, then let the Minister explain to us the delays and difficulties of access to medically assisted procreation techniques, after the torment that has been done by Law No 40 of 2004, that the right, of which she remains an illustrious exponent, has voted and claims with pride. We are talking about lifestyles, educational projects, many proposals that can only be implemented if there is a desire to find resources. If we want to talk about fertility from a social and demographic point of view, then we face the problems that force young people to postpone their choice to have children. If I am hired thanks to the jobs act but paid in vouchers, obviously I will not think about the hourglass flowing, because I have the problem of how to survive daily. And if talking about fertility means drawing the woman as a dying maker, then it would have been better to shut up. On the contrary, it would have been useful and urgent to talk about birth, reproductive health, conscious parenthood, termination of pregnancy to be guaranteed in the public service, refinancing of young consultors, prevention and policies for contraception but, above all, to introduce, for example, the hour of sex education in schools. And yet, we haven't talked about this. We regret to say that the total inadequacy of Minister Lorenzin has become clear to all citizens. And our beliefs have even strengthened with the second part of the campaign, which calls shameful is little; good habits to propose and bad associations to avoid. Of course, the Minister distanced herself: she didn't know, she couldn't imagine. But he also had the courage to justify himself by explaining that racism is in the eyes of the viewer, showing that he did not once again understand what the problem was. Racism will also be in the eyes of those who look, but its inadequacy is indeed before everyone's eyes. For this reason, as the Italian Left, we have addressed, and continue to address an appeal to Minister Lorenzin: to restore dignity to his role, to restore dignity to his Ministry and, above all, to resign, because that is not the place for her. Public health today needs urgent investment and public resources to guarantee that right to health that the Constitution still guarantees. He does not need a Minister who did not even feel it necessary to come and confront the Senate Assembly. Evidently, this is the full discredit of the institutions carried out by the Minister and by the whole Government. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u31	There is a representation in the Chamber of students of the State Secondary School of the first degree "Pirandello-Svevo" in Naples, to which we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u34	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, is there a bad communication? Yes, of course. A communication that also embarrassed many people? Of course I do. But is that why a minister has to resign? The Minister has raised very real problems but, as this is a Parliamentary Assembly where there are so many souls who also forget their belonging to previous governments where certain problems had not even been touched, while today they are being addressed, something we also want to say. Is it true or is it not true that one in five couples have difficulties in procreating spontaneously and that this figure is exactly twice that of twenty years ago? Is it true or is it not true that Christmas in Italy sees us as a light in Europe? Is it true or is it not true that women become mothers ever later? The average figure is more than thirty-one years. Is it true or is it not true that the number of mothers over 40 has doubled in recent years? Is it true or is it not true that all health problems involving infertility are not known by 60% of Italian citizens? Then, if these are the data, a serious Ministry sets itself goals, and Minister Lorenzin seriously placed them. And if you put them as part of a campaign about which I too, dear friend De Biasi, would prefer to speak in Italian. Fertility day is something too far from what we can understand; we talk about infertility, we talk about fertility, we talk about procreation, we talk about the desire of parents to become fathers and mothers. Let's talk about this. And then on the birthday we have problems of economic crisis. Of course, Italian society has profoundly changed over the last ten to fifteen years. It is true that social problems have increased. It is true that the work problem is dramatically present in the desire to become parents. It is true that policies in support of a parent are being put to the test, because of social obstacles and the lack of infrastructure. All this is true and it is true that we, as legislators, must put these problems to us; among other things, the examination of the bill of stability is imminent, on which we can absolutely affect. But there is another health problem and Minister Lorenzin has dealt with this very problem. Is it true or is it not true that the prevention that used to be done today is unknown? Even doctors of general medicine often and willingly do not. Once upon a time there was military service and, at least for boys, the prevention of infertility was present; today even that is no longer done. You, Mr Undersecretary, spoke of endometriosis and, therefore, of truly serious diseases. Do we know or not that 30 percent of those suffering from endometriosis are infertile? And look at the specialists talking about endometriosis ten years ago, and this pathology had not even entered national health plans. This Minister has brought her back into the National Health Plan, as she has been concerned with addressing the problems of heterologous and homologous fertilization within the LEAs. So everything is fine in life, but if you don't want to focus on a real problem, which is not just about us and today, but that concerns us, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, italianity, what we will be, then make a motion of distrust. Have the courage to show yourselves for what you are and, whitewashed tombs, stop making misinformation about the real themes: the body of the woman, the desire for motherhood and fatherhood [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] Have the courage to come out, put a motion of no confidence on this Minister and then we will find ourselves talking about the things he has done and what he has not done, about those for which he must go home and those for which, instead, he must absolutely stay. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the motion by Senator De Biasi, because, despite all the critical issues, it raises absolutely and consciously a problem that we are also raising in the Health Commission. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u37	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, I did not expect this speech from Senator Bianconi, partly because linking a serious problem such as that of birth to the Fertility Day project of Minister Lorenzin, putting the two issues together as if they were functional to each other, is really science fiction. If we want to talk about why women do not have children at a young age and talk about Europe, it must be said that mothers in Sweden have four hundred and eighty days paid for parental leave, which can be distributed during the first eight years of the child's life. All families who have the residence have a grant of 120 euros per month for children up to eighteen years. As regards the reconciliation of life and work, the days of leave to stay at home with sick children are paid and unlimited. In France, since the fourth month of pregnancy, there are 185 euros per month, as well as a prize of about 900 euros at birth. Family allocation is foreseen and EUR 130 per month until the age of 18. The reconciliation of life and work is facilitated by motherly assistants. The problem isn't that the woman gets old. Point 3.2 of the National Fertility Plan states: "The male and his sperms: two subjects to be protected" and point 3.3 reads: The woman and her oocytes: they are born and grow old together. You must take seriously the problem of the possibility of creating a family and of allowing men and women to bring a child into the world at a young age because they have a guarantee that they can maintain it, heal it and make it live in a dignified way. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Otherwise, your Fertility Plan will not tell you where you can put it because it is honestly one of the most shameful, sexist and antisocial things I have read in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Minister Lorenzin should go home for many reasons, starting with the Avastin-Lucentis case, the appropriateness and because he made us spit blood for three years before seeing approved a law on neonatal screenings that save the lives of those who make children. We make our children and, when we make them healthy, there is still no chance of finding treatable pathologies within the first 48 hours. It was thanks to the 5 Star Movement and a Commission that stripped itself of political membership that a law was passed because it was right. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We will vote in favour of the motion by Senator De Biasi today because it is correct, but, Mr Undersecretary, our demands for commitment are also correct, along with the premises. We will therefore ask for two separate votes because I cannot give up seeing the Government engaged on more than just demands, but I am not so hypocritical that I do not see the sacrosanct criticism of a minister who has shown that he is inadequate. Inappropriateness applies it to itself. When she talks about women and births, she would put herself in the head that the first thing a woman wants is probably to have a child. It's natural; it's in his own being a woman and if he doesn't, it's because many times he realizes that he can't just be a reproductive apparatus and put it into the world: you have to be a mom and a mom first and foremost evaluates the possibilities of allowing the child to live a life. This country won't let him. This government does nothing to facilitate this. Think about it next time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u40	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I had prepared a speech on the subject, but after hearing from the Parent Company, Senator Bianconi, I will go on my arm because I fully agree with the premises you have made to explain the reasons and causes for which there is a birthday in Italy. Senator Bianconi, representative of the Government, the problem, however, is that it is not enough to analyse the reasons why in Italy the birthday is higher than any other European country. Those who govern do not have the task and the duty to do the analysis, but must put forward the solutions. It is not enough, as was done, Fertility day. I do not go into the merits of the criticisms made by anyone and admitted by the Minister himself. [[Applause from Senator Bernini]] Therefore, I am of the opinion that, rather than being a Fertility day, it would be appropriate to take concrete action on the subject. According to the latest data, in Italy, our families often make us study with difficulty, we go to university and this Government, to support us in this practice, gives us 500 euros to spend in books and cinemas, which seems to me a very limited thing [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] And after graduating, we have to look for a job. The latest data on youth employment, however, do not seem to show an increase. Unfortunately, they are indisputable: there is an increase in youth unemployment. After that, when two young people are lucky enough to find a job and decide to put up a family, they ask for a mortgage, which of course banks provide only if applicants have an indefinite contract, i.e. if they give guarantees. So, they're making a 30-year mortgage, after which, maybe, they decide to have kids. But what is the position of this Government and this country on the merits of family support? It does not seem to me that it is the same as other countries mentioned here: for family support policies, on the whole, 3.6% of GDP is committed, one of the lowest levels ever in Europe. Then, if you are lucky enough to have a child, you do it at thirty-five, thirty-six or forty years because normal people behave responsibly in the matter of procreation, because they know that if you want to put children into the world, you must also give them the possibility of a perspective, of a future. This requires kindergartens, services and support for people, while there are realities, in Italy, in which kindergartens do not exist. We must therefore reduce the tax burden on the family, give real support with services, not tips, because tips don't solve the problem, they only serve to make some electoral campaign. Then there is another aspect to consider: the Minister of Health who has these good ideas, in my opinion he should have had the courage to present himself this morning to defend his position, not to send the Undersecretary to defend initiatives that are not his own. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). She's home with a fever. You can't afford this! Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). This was supposed to be a serious minister. And above all, I expect that in the next law of stability, beyond the chatter that is made, there will be adequate resources, not promotional campaigns: resources adequate to the family because what happens to the family that I have remembered, where the spouses marry at thirty if it suits them, make their children at thirty-five or thirty-six years, conclude a thirty-year loan and that then arrives at the age of sixty and, if they want to retire to dedicate themselves to the family or to the children, they must take out a new twenty-year mortgage in order to be able to retire. (at 12:27 a.m.) (Following Zuffada). If these are the proposals of this Government and this Minister, God forbid, because one thing is to speak and one thing is to propose concrete initiatives that are lacking. I hope that the next Stability Act will not be denied, because it has been said several times that the national health system would not be affected and that there would be adequate resources, but we have seen in the previous three years how the national health system has been guaranteed! I would like to see concrete initiatives, particularly in terms of taxation, for the family. That would be a serious and concrete response. Moreover, this government is addressing Europe by asking for greater flexibility, that is, to make more debts to be handed down to our children and grandchildren. If this is the interest for the family, I repeat, it would be better to change the register. For these reasons, since the motions of Senators De Petris, Taverna, Simeoni and De Biasi are focused on the health aspect of the issue and not on the economic aspect and support for the family, our vote will be an abstention. Instead, we shall vote in favour of the motion tabled by Senator Bonfrisco, which addresses this issue in two respects. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u43	DIRINDIN (PD). Mr President, the debate this morning unfortunately focused on the content and judgements that were given on last month's communication campaign. I personally believe that this is not useful. I understand that it is inevitable, but on the communication campaign all - I think I can say this - we have expressed a strongly critical opinion. On this we are absolutely aligned, as well as on the need to change the way in which communication interventions are made on the issues we are dealing with. On this occasion, too, personalisms were expressed towards those who promoted the communication campaign, who also recognized the error and withdrew the campaign (which I still consider to be negative). Well, I think it is necessary to overcome these personalisms in a balanced way and to enter into the substance of the policies that we can identify and promote for the reproductive health of men and women. This is another issue and I believe that, if the legislator can make a contribution at this time, he must give it precisely in this direction. What we have tried to emphasize, in particular in motion 644, at the first signature of Senator De Biasi, is in the first place the need not to focus only on the theme of fertility, because it is only a very small piece of everything. On the other hand, it is important to talk about the reproductive health of men and women, because policies to support it must involve the whole population and not just part of it. In this sense, we hope, appreciating the positions expressed this morning by the Undersecretary regarding certain requests and commitments addressed to the Government, that even starting from the next budget law we can pay attention to the issue and above all we trust that policies for supporting reproductive health will reorient their content with respect to choices that are fundamental. What's important? Firstly - we have already pointed out this, but I would like to remind you - that they are re-trained and adequately supported from the cultural and professional point of view, as well as from the financial point of view, the consultors. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Consultants have gone through a period of great decadence in recent years because they have been neglected by the central level, the regional level and the business level. Consultants must be the place where women and men do not feel left alone, but feel accompanied, both in the previous phase the choice to conceive a child, through information, training and support, and at the moment when they freely and consciously choose to start a pregnancy and have a child, but above all after. In fact, the problem is what do public administrations do when children are born, in their first years of life and, above all, in the face of the enormous difficulties that women encounter in modern society when they have a very small child at home? Therefore, specific action is needed to support the consultors and ensure the correct application of Law No 194, which is all too often and increasingly difficult to be adequately supported. Then we need an intervention through schools. The Secretary spoke of cross-sectoral policies and it did not seem true to me to listen to this clarification of the guidelines that we want to follow. Intersectoral policies: firstly, we must work together with schools, because young people must be trained, through education in fertility, sexuality and procreational problems. Of course, not only do schools have to play this role. The last aspect concerns the difficulties faced by a family and in particular a woman when she freely chooses - I stress freely - whether or not to start a motherhood; social and economic difficulties which in recent years are particularly serious. I understand that demands and principles are quickly being expressed on these issues, and it is much more difficult then to translate them into actions, not only concrete but above all effective. However, we continue to stress the importance of this. We are convinced that of this negative experience the Ministry will treasure to qualify the best interventions and to do so immediately, from the occasion of the next budget law. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u44	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 626.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u47	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, on the basis of the views expressed by the Secretary-General, we are asking for a split vote, dividing the premises and the first two points of the proposal and, on the other hand, all the other commitments of the mechanism, on which we accept the proposals for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u48	I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote on motion No 626 (text 2). It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the premises and the first two points of the motion for a resolution No 626 (text 2). Mr Barani (AL-A). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and points 1) and 2) of the motion No 626 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remaining points of motion 626 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 639.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u51	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, we also call for a split vote, dividing the part of the premises from the part that contains the device, and accepting the proposals for rewording on this latter part.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u52	I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote on motion No 639 (text 2). It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the premises of motion No 639 (text 2). Mr Barani (AL-A). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 639 (text 2), tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 639 (text 2), tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 641. Mr Barani (AL-A). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 641, tabled by Senator Simeoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 644. Mr Barani (AL-A). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 644, tabled by Senator De Biasi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 645.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u55	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I would like to ask for the separate vote on motion 645 by voting first on the premises and then on the arrangements, accepting the rewording proposed by the representative of the Government on the latter part.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u56	I put to the vote the request for separate votes on motion No 645 (text 2). It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 645 (text 2). Mr Barani (AL-A). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 645 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 645 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u57	I'm asking to speak for myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u59	NAPOLITANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I take the floor on a personal note in connection with the assessments that have been made in Senator Calderoli's speech at the afternoon sitting on 5 October. These assessments were recalled in the Chamber the following morning by Senator Centinario. I will immediately come to the point, regardless of the invectives of a suburb vulgarity addressed to me surprisingly - after so many years, really, I did not expect it - by the Vice President of the Senate. And in a case like this, not a single one is insulted, but the institutions. Senator Centinario has preferred to resort in a veiled defamatory way to derisory expressions for me as an elderly person. On these aspects of language and custom of the two speeches I have nothing to add. I suppose we can talk about this in the interests of our institution in the appropriate place. The political point I have reason to consider serious is the statement by Senator Calderoli, recalled to the Chamber the following morning by Senator Centinario, according to whom I would have betrayed this branch of Parliament's dignity by calling Parliament unworthy. These are allusions to the answer I gave by arm to the question of a young man who, on 1 October last, took part in the course of political formation in Rome before which I presented a lesson on political-institutional issues. Senator Calderoli would have had a duty to document himself, or at least to stick to what the press agencies, starting with the ANSA, had reported, before dropping to a similar judgment on the former President of the Republic. By reacting to purely rhetorical forms of defence in Parliament, I had responded to that young man, denouncing - I quote ANSA - "How the Parliament has been reduced" as a result of the widespread appeal for many years to the decree of urgency and to votes of confidence on maximendament and unique articles, which, at least since 2007, have upset the legislative process and mortified the Chambers. And I would add - I quote the ANSA -: All this can end with the constitutional reform submitted to the referendum for the remedies it prepares in this regard. This is the substance: to rehabilitate the role of Parliament by giving it full dignity. Of course, it would have been possible, by wishing to do so, to provide further information on my brief reply. To say, therefore, that I have called the Senate unworthy, Parliament is not only deliberately false but opposed to the actual meaning and words of my speech. As a Member for thirty-eight years, as President of the Chamber and finally as President of the Republic, I have always worked to enhance the role of Parliament and strengthen its functionality and prestige. Anyone who, due to electoral controversy in view of the referendum, tends to deny and stain my indisputable and constant behavior, fails to any rule of minimal objectivity and institutional respect. [[Applause from the PD Group, AP (NCD-UDC)]] , Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE) and AL-A and Senator Repetti).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u62	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am not a professional slanderer and I do not mean to offend anyone. I respect the institutions, but I am also a politician and therefore, when a person goes into politics, even if he is the President of the Republic but he is political, even if he is a former President of the Republic but he is a party politician, he must be available to confront and, as they say, to "give" and possibly to "take" them. There is no need for too many quotations to recall the role that Senator Napolitano played as former President of the Republic. With regard to the reform, let us remember your interventions in the Commission and in this House. He mentioned a lectio magistralis, but he forgot to mention the seat: it was not the Normale of Pisa, but the school of political formation of the Dem, which seems to me sufficiently partisan and political. I take back what has been reported in the press so that we can be as precise and precise, where we say: Among decrees and trusts, Parliament has been reduced by a rag. I would have expected to hear such a phrase from Salvini, from Grillo, but certainly not from a President of the Republic, even more when emeritus. I remind myself of Article 87 of the Constitution: who authorizes the presentation to the Chambers of government-initiative drafts of law, such as the bills of conversion of decree-laws? The Presidents of the Republic. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]] Who promulgates the laws after they have been converted with more or less confidence? The Presidents of the Republic. So, if anyone turned the rags, it's not theirs, but someone else who signed those provisions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] I repeat: voting on a single article and 1,300 paragraphs means killing Parliament. Very well, but I have good memory: this example is taken from the 2006 budget session and referred to the financial law for 2007, the President of the Council was Prodi and the President of the Republic was Napolitano. So, it's okay that the killer usually comes back to the scene of the crime, but frankly quoting such incidents seems inappropriate to me. To follow: If the institutional referendum wins, we will have the opportunity to return to making Parliament a worthy place. If I have to, through the adoption of a reform, bring back to being worthy, as a place, Parliament, it means that at this moment it is unworthy of natural consequence. On this I agree, but Parliament's indignity does not stem from the rejection of constitutional reform, but perhaps stems from the palace conspiracy of 2011, when the last government regularly elected by the citizens, with this conspiracy, was sent home. Perhaps Parliament's indignity stems from the fact that we have a Parliament that has expressed confidence in three successive Presidents of the Council, who have never been elected by the people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and FI-PdL XVII]] It is true, in fact, that the President-in-Office of the Council must not receive the direct vote of the citizens, but it is also true that the party which gives a majority or not to the current President of the Council and which gave it to those who preceded him is elected people in the centre-right who are voting on the other side today. That is unworthy, Mr President! [[Applause from Senators Bottici, Bell and Malan]] Perhaps unworthy is a Parliament that has expressed its confidence three times - and someone has let them be - for the approval of the electoral law, which has only happened with the Acerbo law and the scam law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Bottic, Bell and Tavern Senators]] It is unworthy of us to have voted, with the blackmail of the early dissolution of the legislature, on the constitutional reform in which no one believed. That constitutional reform is unworthy. [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] Unworthy is to have allowed to propose a referendary question that says one thing when the contents are different and exactly contrary. Unworthy is the electoral and media campaign of the yes, which is taking place, where from morning to evening we see only Renzi and there is no one who makes a minimum call. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Campanella.]] That is indeed the people's circonvention! Mr. President. If I have made a mistake in something, it is in having uttered a sentence made, but I assure you that I was ignoring then and I ignore today whether President Napolitano is an only child or has brothers: I was wrong in involving them; because no one can be blamed for having a brother President of the Republic. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by recalling a sentence that I made, really believing in that sentence, on the occasion of a birthday of President Napolitano. I said, "Dear President, congratulations! She is like red wine, like bitterone, which improves every year that passes. I have to believe it again, because even the best wines, with too many years, risk going in vinegar. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u65	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it is not the speeches at the end of the sitting that are the venue for a debate on the history of the Republic, but important facts have been mentioned. Personally, I have not criticized (and I do not think any of our Group's representatives have done so) that statement by President Napolitano, with whom we have been dealing for a long time - who more, who less - with often divergent opinions, in his capacity as President of the Chamber of Deputies, Minister of the Interior and President of the Republic and I believe that, if the statements made may have offended, President Napolitano has done well to defend his point of view. But there was a debate and I saw that Senator Calderoli wanted to link it to the current debate on the referendum. I will not do the same, not least because the time is short for the speeches at the end of the sitting and we will have a thousand opportunities to talk about referendums, forcings and the Constitution. But I want to say that Parliament's indignity has matured for a long time. Already Senator Calderoli reminded the Assembly and also President Napolitano of many unique things that have happened over the years. If the authentic interpretation of the senator and president Napolitano is the one that gave us just before, it must be remembered what happened in so many stages of republican life. I too have been a part of governments that have issued decrees-laws: out of charity, whoever is without sin throws the first stone! But then some governments - and President Napolitano knows this - made the decree and the vote of confidence the exclusive practice. This was done by the Monti Government - we are talking about another colleague - and at that stage by President Napolitano, as Senator Calderoli said, I did not hear any statements such as that made to the Democratic Class, a school of political formation of the young people of the PD. Just as, if I wanted to relate to the current situation, then President Napolitano contended to Parliament that he had not approved by an absolute majority, to the House, a rule on budgetary adjustment from which at that stage, in 2011, there were consequences while, the other day, President Grasso, I saw that the Senate Assembly approved budgetary adjustment by 142 votes, which are not the absolute majority. Now at the Quirinale there is no President Napolitano, but I do not know if the current President of the Republic has found the same reasons for criticism that he found, and I was the Holding Company (senator Napolitano will remember). At that stage I had the opportunity to compare myself, each in their respective roles - its prestigious and institutional, my functional - with the President of the Republic. And I also remember, Mr President of the Senate, that the Quirinale not only passes the decree-laws: as Senator Calderoli may recall, I have seen stability laws that came out of the Senate in one way and were improperly amended before they arrived in the House, in other institutional places. We have therefore discovered that in the past years the Presidency of the Republic has also had the power to amend the measures. Therefore, when we want, we can open a debate on constitutional law and the history of Italy. I believe that everyone has the right to express their thoughts: President Napolitano is a politician and can say what he wants, but we too have been witnesses of history and we have witnessed so many unworthy things that have happened in this Republic. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u67	You have the right to do so. They then asked Senators Comrade, Zeller and Zanda to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u68	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we would never have asked for the floor on end-of-session speeches, but at this point we have to do so, since we have seen that President Zanda has also asked for it immediately. I think we should all try to avoid tones that make personal references, offenses and everything else. Everyone has the right to do their own political battle and their own campaign also on the referendum; however - and I say this with pleasure to President Napolitano too - roles have been exercised, like his own as President of the Republic, which cannot be forgotten compared to what was, unfortunately, the decrease in Parliament's powers. It would therefore be very interesting - I say this with respect to Senator Napolitano - to have a serious debate, yes, and very thorough on what has happened in recent years with regard to the reduction of Parliament's powers, with respect to the use and abuse of the decree-laws. (Senator Caleo smiles). If I make Senator Caleo laugh, it's okay. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris, we're at the end of the session. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). I'm talking very seriously. If we really wanted to make a serious argument in all the debates we have had on constitutional reform, one of the issues - this yes - to be addressed seriously was precisely what happened and which in recent years was happening to our parliamentary democracy, with the decrease in Parliament's power, with the attempt to relegate it, thanks to the abuse of the decree-laws, to an ancillary role in relation to the Executive. The problem, however, is that we cannot say today - and I am very clear about this - that this reform is again giving Parliament a role, because it is exactly the opposite. I also say that, as an opposition, we have pointed out in all the discussions that there have been forces on constitutional reform and what was happening, not only as a humiliation but also as an oppression of minority rights, throughout the process of constitutional reform. This has happened on the reform and on the electoral law, with the vote of confidence and these elements cannot be silenced. Then, everyone will make his campaign, will be able to motivate as he wants yes and no, but you cannot forget everything that has happened in these two years and the role that the President of the Republic of time has had directly in making sure that this path goes on in this rugged way. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u71	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, I am speaking only to express our dismay and also, a little bit, our discomfort. From Mr Calderoli's speech we have seen an issue that is a little too big for a debate at the end of the sitting, I am referring to the prerogatives of the Head of State. Among other things, we are on a day when we are going to commemorate a former Head of State and, from this point of view, if Senator Calderoli allows me, with all the friendship I have for him, that final wine comparison was perhaps inappropriate on a day like this. But let me give you another thought. I have the impression that the debate has moved on to this fucking referendary issue. I was in the Chamber, Mr President, and you were there too: Mr Centinario drew the House's attention to the words used the day before, in a meeting in Treviso, towards some of my fellow senators, words that are far from worthy, as they are, however, worthy of whatever they are - and I am one who voted against the reform, as well as Calderoli - the statements of Senator Napolitano, like those of others. The Senate is an institution of freedom and the adjective "unworthy" must never use it, not even for personal reasons, between us. On that occasion, in Treviso, as Senator Centinario recalled, the President of the Council had frankly used terms that, if they had been effective, would have been very serious as an attack on the freedom of the 12 Members of the League. From this point of view, let's all moderate ourselves, let's all be careful. I remember that that morning President Zanda, also in order to facilitate the flow of our work, recognized the seriousness and the need to ascertain how the facts had taken place at that meeting of Treviso. Waiting then to remember today the figure of Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, with the utmost respect to the President emeritus Napolitano who took the floor for a personal fact, I would like to remind the current President of the Council, who is so agitated about the Constitution, that there is a good example: the President of the Council Alcide De Gasperi, becoming such during the work of the Constitution, did not deal with the Constitution, never sat on the benches of the Government and was a good example of discretion. I would stress this not in order to deny or limit the freedom of speech of the President-in-Office of the Council, which must be the maximum, but because, perhaps, ascertaining the facts of Treviso goes well beyond the personal fact raised this morning and the considerations that the friend made, if he still allows me, Calderoli. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u74	CASTALDI (M5S). According to the order, Senator Zanda should intervene first. BOTTICS (M5S). Apart from the fact that there is an order scattered by now, but then Senator Zanda will have the honour to conclude this discussion. Mr President, I would like to remind this House, and especially the former President of the Republic, that he is the author of all this in this story, and that therefore he cannot come out of it with a personal intervention when he personally entered the institution of Parliament, when three times he gave a mandate of government to people not wanted by the people. I remember Minister Boschi in an interview saying that the second mandate accepted by the President of the Republic was precisely because of this reform. Let us not then make these speeches which certainly do not serve to bring this Parliament back from the decadence in which you have brought it all. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Borioli (PD). The coup de grace! CARDINALI (PD). An intervention!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u77	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am shocked. We have witnessed a long speech by Vice President Calderoli who, with so many twists of words, tried to disguise the fact that he had told the fake about President Napolitano whose thought he tried to upset. It is clear to everyone that President Napolitano has always defended the dignity of Parliament and certainly does not need lessons or comments from those who, in the past, have often behaved very differently and not in accordance with the rules of style that this Parliament deserves. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Finally, President Calderoli, I must tell you that the comparison you made on wine is really a fall in style, certainly not new, but certainly not worthy of a Vice President of the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u80	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have to say quite frankly that this debate, which starts from a speech by President Napolitano, on a personal note, did not please me. President Napolitano asked for the floor because he was offended in the Chamber. He did not address this aspect of our work and only asked to be interpreted for what he said. And he did so by reading the news agencies that accurately reported his thoughts. This was followed by a debate on the functioning of Parliament, which dealt with the question of the signing powers of the President of the Republic, who addressed the issue of the electoral campaign, yes and no, the conduct of the President of the Council. Well, I want to say something general, Mr President. There are signs, indices, the decline of parliaments. There are signs from which the decline of parliaments can be deduced. One of these signs is certainly when you don't talk in tone, when you answer by talking about something else. This can be done in private conversations, it must not be done in Parliament, where we have to respond to the questions raised with specific arguments relating to them. It is a sign of decline when - I address Senator Centinario - he is heavily ironic about the age, the physical, the personal profile of one of us. That's something you don't do. This is a sign of Parliament's decline. I tell Senator Calderoli instead that you can't be Vice President in the morning and Senator, with opposite behavior, in the afternoon. Something that is not done is personal insult and, even worse, if addressed to family members to make it more violent. These things, Senator Calderoli, are not done, even in the worst and most violent political controversy. Mr President, at other times Senator Calderoli's words would have been censored. This has not happened, and this is also a sign of Parliament's decline. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u81	I'm asking to speak for myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u83	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on a personal note, although, before speaking on a personal note, I recall that one cannot be President of the Council in the morning, leader of the party in the afternoon, militant of the Democratic Party in the evening. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] And maybe go on TV and shoot zero against politics, when it's politics that feeds you, because otherwise you don't have a job and maybe you can't bring home the loaf. President Zanda, you remind your President-in-Office of the Council. I am speaking for myself simply because I would like to remind everyone that I have respected the age of the former President of the Republic, because I could - as you know me and it is my character - have made a different kind of speech. And, in the respect that I carry towards the former president Napolitano, I would like to remind everyone - and that is why I have respect and it is for this that I have used those words relative to the age, otherwise I could not justify certain sentences - that the president Napolitano on date 24 May 2016 asserted: In Italy we have the League, which has become the main expression in Italy of xenophobic positions. I think that a political person cannot say with conscience that a party has xenophobic positions, especially if it is a former President of the Republic. As a result, if I add those statements to those made against Parliament a few days ago, I have to conclude that this is all about age. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fattori.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-696.ana.u84	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 5 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.13 a.m.
