ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on organizational arrangements for the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, as well as for supervised bodies, and on initiatives for the promotion of cultural tourism, to which the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Franceschini, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. So let us turn to questions about the organizational arrangements of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, as well as the supervised bodies. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u6	DI GIORGI (PD). Minister, on 25 November 2014 the regulation of the organisation of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, the offices of the direct collaboration of the Minister and the independent body for the evaluation of performance was published and subsequently entered into force. A reform particularly expected and relevant both for the areas involved, given the long Italian tradition in the protection of the heritage, and for the media attention it has aroused. You yourself spoke on 11 December 2014 in 7th Senate Education and Culture Commission to illustrate the reorganization of the Ministry, on its first day of entry into force. The reform, inspired by the principles of spending review, addresses for the first time old and structural issues, on which we agree very much. The ratio that led to the reorganization was to fully integrate culture and tourism, to simplify the peripheral administration, to modernise the central structure, to relaunch the policies of innovation and training, to enhance the contemporary arts and architecture with particular reference to the urban outskirts, point this very well cared for, and to give greater autonomy to the Italian state museums. On the basis of these brief considerations, I would ask you, Minister, to be aware of the current state of the Ministry's reorganisation work, of the possible difficulties (which I find to be in part) arising from the lack of non-technical administrative staff (because on the technical side there have been recruitments, of which I am aware), and of the achievement of the objectives that this reform had set itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u9	GIRO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. Minister, the previous speaker called your reform a reform. Unfortunately, it is not a reform, but a regulation. And this is not a law passed in Parliament through a public confrontation between parties and between all those concerned in different ways. This is a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers, which entered into force, as Senator De Giorgi recalled, about two years ago. Therefore, we have problems because it is a regulation that has fallen from the top. I personally share it in its inspiring principles, which are unitary of the system, transparency, efficiency and, above all, responsibility, in the sense that it clarifies well who has to do what. I repeat, however, that this is not a reform born from below through a public and political confrontation and through the involvement of all the players in the field. It is a regulation and as such it must also be assessed. I would like to understand exactly what is happening in the top 20 museums that have been indicated by this regulation and whose appointments have been made by you and the Director General Soragni. For example, the Roman National Museum, which I believe has been banned, does not even know its name and brings together four museums: Palazzo Altemps, the Crypta Balbi, the Baths of Diocletian and Palazzo Massimo. I would like to know if the archaeological parks have a reference regulation. Here in Rome, the Parco dell'Appia Antica is also a regional nature park, so we must also deal, I believe, with the President of the Region and understand exactly what are the competences of the future archaeological park. Do regional secretaries coordinate with the Superintendents? And the Superintendences are isolated bodies? Do they protect? Are the directors of the museums working with the superintendents or are they just monads, islands, domains, protectors, that is, what the regulation wanted to overcome? We need to clarify all these steps because I see so many watertight compartments that don't talk and there's a lot of depression. I repeat: I strongly support this regulation but it needs to be more involved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u12	Montevecchi (M5S). Minister, on 24 March the Ministerial Decree on the procedures for selecting new officials was signed. From the calls published for recruitment to MIBACT, it appears that only 25 officials are allocated to libraries, which would decree the collateral disappearance of many facilities. The additional funds made available by the Ministry risk remaining a buffer and ineffective measure, in the absence of an organic framework for relaunching the sector. As is well known, the turnover block has caused a significant deterioration in the services provided by libraries that already survive with the use of volunteering, traineeships and civil service while many young professionals in cultural goods are forced to find a different occupation often dequalified. The situation is so serious that in protest the members of the Technical and Scientific Committee for Cultural Heritage and Institutes and Professor Giovanni Solimine of the Higher Council for Cultural and Landscape Heritage have resigned, stating that in this situation, while on the one hand the effective exercise by the State of the functions of protection on books, the same future of many major libraries in our country is irremediably compromised and strongly prejudiced the possibility for them to continue to be able to provide an adequate service to the public and to the benefit of the entire national community. In view of the above, the Minister is asked what steps he intends to take both to remedy an indisputably serious situation and to ensure the work of the Committee and the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u15	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, the restructuring and amalgamation of the Superintendences, planned with measures of reform of public administration and reduction of public expenditure followed by Decree-Law No 83 of 2014, had also implied the objective of reducing the response time and the reduction of administrative steps in the practices falling within the competence of the Superintendences themselves. It should not be overlooked that sometimes complex practices for which the expression of an opinion from different areas of the Superintendence was envisaged were not always uniform, with the consequent complexity of administrative management of the practices and, for the ordinary citizen, a misconception of public administration. It wonders whether monitoring has been carried out on the effective reduction of time limits or whether there is an intention to do so and whether, also considering some recent regulatory changes, we can actually talk about a reduction in time and simplification of procedures as far as the Superintendences' competence is concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u18	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr Minister, the sector of state public libraries is currently in a dramatic situation from the point of view of shortages in organic endowments. In 2015, the Ministerial Decree of 6 August, which redesigned the organic maps of the MIBACT, drastically reduced the organic plant of state public libraries compared to the previous one, established in 1997: for example, the National Library of Florence increased from 334 to 170 staff units, and from 91 to 38 librarians, and the Alessandrina Library of Rome from 118 to 34 units, from 36 to 5 librarians. Overall, the number of librarians has been reduced by 45 percent. In other words, in the face of a situation of suffering caused by the shortage of staff, instead of increasing the staff to adapt it to the legal forecasts, the organic plant of law has been reduced to adapt it to the situation in fact. The situation is set to worsen if we take into account the number of pensions: about 60% of the officials currently in service at the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism are over 60 years of age, with only four managers under that age. A further critical profile can be seen, of course, in the geographical distribution of organic endowments: in some southern regions there has even been a redundancy of librarian officials, while Regions such as Lazio or Tuscany are currently in difficult conditions. At this juncture, Decree-Law No. 78 of 19 June 2015 has been approved, which has taken away from the Regions and assigned to the State competence in the matter of the protection of the bibliographical heritage, while it would be urgent to implement the code of cultural goods, concluding agreements with the Regions in order to entrust to them the responsibility for the protection of books. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Petraglia. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). In this context, despite the additional funds currently provided for state libraries, it is necessary to ask whether, within the specific framework of the organic endowments of these fundamental institutions, the Minister has real confidence in the current situation, including through an estimate of the retirements of librarians in the coming years, so as to assess the possibility of launching a multiannual recruitment plan which, unlike the current competition for MIBACT officials, which provides for 500 posts only 25 reserved for librarians, resolves the current dramatic situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u21	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, my question is essentially similar to that put by Senator Di Giorgi. I would like to know from the Minister what will be the consequences and effects of the new regulation of organization of the Ministry of Heritage, Cultural Activities and Tourism, with particular reference to the so-called nodes still to be resolved and the lines of action envisaged and the purpose implemented, providing information aimed at knowing the state by art in the work of reorganization of the Ministry itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u24	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, the new scheme for the reorganization of MIBACT envisages adopting a new model of organisation of the Italian cultural heritage protection system, which no longer provides for the existence of Superintendences specifically dedicated to archaeology in the different regions, but Unique Superintendences with mixed competences distributed in the territory on an interprovincial basis. The protection procedures have been developed for decades separately in the different fields of technical competence (archaeology, architecture and arts), considering the peculiarities of each of them. Therefore, to entrust strategic decisions in this matter to managers - even if assisted by specialist officials - who do not have a precise awareness of the archaeological discipline, can entail the risk of underestimating the conservation problems, with consequent impact on the times and costs of preventive archaeology interventions. The fragmentation of the protection functions between several smaller territorial offices risks favouring an attitude that does not allow a general view of the historical problems. These new organizational guidelines devalue the technical-specialistic character of the Superintendences and reduce their territorial scope to the provincial dimension and no longer regional. We therefore ask whether the Minister intends to re-evaluate the possibility of an interregional option, with respect to the provincial dimension, given that these entities are being scaled down at the general administrative level and whether they will be adequately safeguarded, in the new organizational project put in place by MIBACT, the interest in the protection of the archaeological heritage and the cultural landscape and the continuity of administrative action, in order to avoid that in the time necessary to organize the new articulation the Italian territory, already fragile and subject to numerous interventions, has to feel irrecoverably of the transformation of the territorial articulations of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u27	LIUZZI (CoR). Madam President, Minister, it is no surprise that my speech will also focus on archaeological Superintendence: on the one hand, this is probably an annoying litany, consisting of a series of petitions in this regard; on the other hand, it shows a singular sensitivity in an all-Italian context, such as archaeology. In particular, the Franceschini reform on the organizational arrangements of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, as well as the supervised bodies, has arrived just a year away from a previous and controversial intervention of "renovation" of offices and skills, which had already caused enormous inconveniences and, often, the paralysis of institutional activities, separating the protection and enhancement, so far inseparable phases of a single process. The Superintendencies have lost the natural outlet, that of the use of the researches on the field that characterize the activities of safeguard. In particular, the abolition of the Archaeological Superintendences should be stigmatized, which, as for example that of Taranto, established a hundred and ten years ago, constitute a technical-scientific body of State research intended to carry out, by law, adequate cognitive activity preparatory to all forms of protection, conservation, use and valorization. I therefore ask Minister Franceschini how he intends to safeguard the activity and territorial specificities of the Archaeological Superintendences within the framework of the new Superintendences constituted by the territorial division and the amalgamation of competences with respect to the old bodies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Franceschini, Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u28	Madam President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their comments. I shall try to combine the issues I have been asked, many of which are linked or overlapping. It is true that what has been called reform of the Ministry takes place through a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers (as regards the first part) and a ministerial decree (as regards the second part) and not through legislative changes, but this could be done by specific rules that on two different occasions allowed the intervention on the organizational reform of the Ministry to take place through non-law rules. I do not think that reforms should only take place through legislative provisions: there are various instruments, from legislative decrees to regulations implementing legal provisions. In this case, as soon as I arrived to lead the Ministry, I was faced with the mandatory objective of reducing the executives of the Dicastery by a compulsory percentage of the first and second classes; I wondered whether to do an automatic operation, cutting off the free seats because they were not occupied by natural persons (as has happened so many times in the past) or to make a transversal and linear cut of the various tasks, or instead to use that norm to reduce the number of managers (because this happened) and at the same time try to intervene in the structure of the Ministry. We have chosen this second path and frankly it does not seem to me, Senator Giro, that it has fallen from above. On the other hand, the work done by the previous Government, namely Minister Bray, who had set up a commission chaired by Professor D'Alberti, who worked for more than a year and a half. In this case there was also a political coincidence, but even when such a political coincidence is not there, I think there is nothing more wrong with the fact that those who come to lead a Ministry ignore everything that the predecessors have done and start over. Therefore, I have not set up a new committee, but I have used that work on the basis of some innovations. In particular, moving on to the questions of Senators Di Giorgi and Zeller, the core of this operation lies in the separation in Italy between protection and valorization. In the past our museum system, unique in quality and quantity of the collections, has not been the subject of a real investment in terms of modernization and enhancement, largely because our state museums - it is good for Parliament to have full awareness of them - basically did not exist until this intervention. Evidently they existed as collections, but not legally, in the sense that they were mere offices of hierarchical dependence of the territorially competent Superintendence. This was also the case for large museums such as the Uffizi and the astronomical observers of Brera and Capodimonte, headed by an official without a statute, without budget, without any autonomy, to the superintendent's hierarchical orders. Since there is a great tradition and a considerable know-how in the field of protection in Italy, but there is no such thing as valorization, the delay is mainly due to this problem. In the reform we have therefore imagined to divide the protection from valorization, so we have imagined a new direction general museums and museums in part autonomous. I mean that the 20 largest museums, to which we are adding in this period by 2016 another 10 museums that have a higher level of autonomy, but also all the other museums, will no longer be dependent on the Superintendences, but on the general direction museums and regional museums that have the exclusive task of investing in valorization; the Superintendences, instead, will continue to take care of the protection of the territory. Therefore they do not become separate bodies or assigned to different Dicasteries. They remain within the Ministry itself and coordinated by the regional secretariat itself, but refer to two complementary but different types of work. The investment is therefore greater than in the past in the field of valorization. This process is far ahead: museums have been working for a year and a half. For the ten new museums, the subject of the second ministerial decree, the international selection is open these days. We will see how it goes; we will follow the same criterion as the first selection. They may come Italian or not; the important thing is that they are people with a basic scientific preparation (archaeologists, architects or art historians) who have also gained experience in the management of a museum, which is not the same as doing protection on the territory through a Superintendence. Already in the first step of the reform, the Superintendences of Fine Arts, Artistic and Architectural Heritage had been brought together in a single Superintendence. Until a year ago our Superintendences were divided into three sectors: archaeology, artistic goods and architectural goods, often with different territorial competences. For how it came to form in a disordered way the geographical map on the territory, in the same city you could have a good and for that good you had to turn to a Superintendence for the intervention on the wall (which had seat in a city), to another Superintendence for the picture attached to the wall (based in a second city) and to a third Superintendence for what was under the wall, with seat in a third city. This, in the functionality of the administration and in the relationship with citizens and businesses, created many problems. All the more so, now there is a risk that this fragmentation will trigger the rule of silence-consent. The second step of the reform, consistent with the first, was, after merging the two Superintendences (operation completed a year ago), to integrate them with the Archaeological Superintendence. The questions are now closed; the supervisors have been appointed by the Director-General of the new single Directorate-General and will enter operationally in office on 10 or 11 July. There will be a single Superintendence and the citizen will be able to turn to a single entity that within it - as it is foreseen in the decree - will have the responsible for archaeology, for artistic goods and architectural goods, the responsible for education and research and the responsible for demoetnoanthropology. The citizen will ask a single question and will receive a single answer and also conflicts, which are natural for the different opinions, will no longer be based in opinions different data to the citizen or the enterprise, but will be resolved within the Superintendence and in the end the opinion will be unique. The first merger worked well. This second step can give effective answers in terms of answers. At the same time we have territorially redesigned the powers of the Superintendences. We inherited a messy situation as the territorial districts formed. Tuscany had five Superintendences to the artistic goods, while Lombardy, with more than double the inhabitants, had two. We have tried to achieve a more homogeneous territorial redistribution based on the heritage and the number of inhabitants. Today there are 39 unique and two special Superintendences (Pompei and Rome). For the staff - I have been asked by several interrogators - there is a general problem that applies to all public administration. We are below the number expected by the organic plant and the average age is high. You remembered that, too. There is a need to intervene, but the turnover is subject to rules that you know very well because Parliament approved them. In last year's law of stability has been introduced by way of derogation - there is an important recognition of a role of cultural heritage - the possibility to assume - the ban is open - 500 people for the professionalism of which the Ministry was deprived for years for retirement. These are architects, archaeologists, art historians, librarians, archivists, demoetnoanthropologists. The number 500, at the time the standard was approved, was very close to the organic plant vacancies. To date, there are 500 recruitments for 770 vacancies (because in the meantime pensions continue). I come to the questions asked by Senators Montevecchi and Petraglia, regarding the criterion by which we decided to divide these 500. We have chosen the most objective criterion possible: we have seen how many vacancies were in each sector and in each we have reported the relationship that, from the general point of view, exists between the 770 vacancies and the 500 places in competition. Thus the numbers were determined, which did not satisfy, in particular, the librarians. Among these, among the first 500, 90 archaeologists out of 136 deficiencies, 130 architects out of 198 deficiencies, 95 archivists out of 146 deficiencies, 40 art historians out of 61 deficiencies, 30 promotional officials out of 50 deficiencies. From here comes the number of librarians, on which there was a protest, to which I replied that any act other than a proportional calculation would result in a just reaction. If I had decided to hire 10 extra librarians, taking away 10 art historians, wouldn't that have been a completely arbitrary choice? If anything - and I am addressing Parliament, which has this function - in the law of stability next year, since the competition, at that point, will be in the final phase, it can be expected that those 500 posts will become 1,000, in order to allow to cover all vacancies in organic plan in all sectors. I regret the resignation of the technical-scientific committee of the librarians, to whom Senators Montevecchi and Petraglia referred; I wrote to them explaining all the events and asking to withdraw the resignation, but they replied that they would not withdraw them. I am sorry, but I must guarantee, as always, the continuation of the various institutional levels that compete with the undersigned and the Ministry, so I can only proceed with the replacement. The Senators Count, Centinario and Liuzzi asked what are the advantages of the unity of the Superintendences. I think there is an advantage, both over citizens and over internal professionalism. In fact, to date, even at the level of officials and not just managers, there will be specializations of individual careers outside the role of manager. In the decree, in fact, we have provided that each Superintendence has within itself the responsibility of each sector. There will therefore be a specific professionalization, which of course we will monitor and which will allow to maintain, especially in the field of archaeology, a specialty. My concern, in fact, is not so much about protection, on which, instead, there have been fears and protests, because I think that protection will work better and I feel obliged, as Minister, to do everything possible (then the road can be right or wrong) for protection to work better. I think, however, that there is a need to maintain a specialty and know-how acquired in years of excellence of Italian archaeology. For this reason I have already signed a decree, for which I have consulted with many archaeologists, people and associations that deal with the sector, which gives birth to the Central Institute of Archaeology, on the model of other institutes, such as the Central Institute of Restoration, which will be the place where we will gather knowledge, know-how and excellence, in Italy and in the world. Italy, in fact, is the country that has the most archaeological missions in the world, of which we must be very proud: from the Italian Archaeological School of Athens to more than 150 missions around the world. We have imagined a central institute of archaeology that participates in the protection of goods, but that is also the place where to preserve the great specialty and the great tradition of Italian archaeology. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u31	DI GIORGI (PD). Minister, I am satisfied with the overall response you have given. I understand, however, that Parliament could be engaged in the coming months and that the Group of the Democratic Party, to which I belong, could move in this direction. However, I believe it is necessary to assign new people to the Ministry. In fact, a Ministry like this, for its value and its role at national level, can only see increased human resources. In my view, it is necessary, for all the implications that this approach could have - of course in conjunction with you, Minister - to try to give special attention to the question of the Ministry's staff in the next law of stability, also because we have so many young people available; indeed, they are absolutely willing to join these professions. So it becomes a duty for us to offer them opportunities. Thank you, however, for your reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u34	GIRO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am pleased with the answer received, but also a little concerned, in the sense that I do not believe that the Minister is fully aware of what is around him. In fact, having insisted, as he has done, on the separation - I quote - between the place of protection, the Superintendence, and the place of culture, the museum, is a risk, and I do not believe that this is provided for by his reform-regulation. You, Minister, insist on this separation. We are rather talking about distinction, about collaboration. You tell us about the 10 museums, the 20 museums, the 10 that will come now: this speech can be done by those who start and promote regulation, but it has been almost a year: what have these 20 directors combined? Did they have a fundraiser? Do they protect? I remind you that in the Uffizi there is Botticelli, Michelangelo, Raphael; there is the palace, there are deposits. They're also working on the protection front. Protection also means enhancement. He said Spadolini, protect by enhancing and enhancing protection: they are two sides of the same medal. If you read the Law of the Cross of 1922 and the two laws of Bottai of 1939 you would realize that the valorization - there was talk of valorization even then, we do not invent anything, you know - goes hand in hand with the protection. So, I'm convinced that yours is a good reform, but follow it well, Minister, stay on the track, be on the field, wake up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. GIRO (FI-PdL XVII). We are witnessing the administrative isolation of the Superintendences and Museums. Not to mention the regional museum poles, which are abandoned.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u37	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr Minister, unfortunately I am not satisfied with the answer I received, because although I understood that you came here and spoke to us about the method you decided to adopt, I would have expected a more detailed answer on this point, because the resignation of all the members of such an important committee caused an academic earthquake. In fact, it had never been seen the use of such strong methods to denounce the Ministry's disinterest in the value of libraries. I expected you to come in with a more detailed answer, which could also give us insights into the directives of an organic framework for relaunching the sector. On the other hand, you have spread out and placed responsibility on Parliament, hoping that Parliament itself, in the course of the next Stability Act, will be able to increase the available seats. Of course, you can't, but you could come and explain - if anything - some line of direction, some proposal (which I haven't heard). Perhaps the disinterest in the library sector is also due to the relatively short time you have devoted to your response to this point... PRESIDENT. You have to finish, Senator. Montevecchi (M5S). I'll finish. I said a short time instead of the more general issues raised by other colleagues. I am therefore not at all satisfied. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry, but we have very strict times. I'm just doing this for this, otherwise it would be very interesting to extend.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u40	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I believe that the Minister's answer is satisfactory. I come from administrative experience and I know how dear it is to citizens to have unmistakable and short-term answers. Having a single interlocutor is certainly fundamental in this reform process initiated, as is very important the rule of silence-consent. It is certainly a step forward. I believe that the contrasted rule of so-called silence - consensus (contested to the concern that would lead to the danger of the deterioration of our goods) should not be removed, because there is a general, uniform and widespread sensitivity in this regard. Therefore, I am not concerned that rapid procedures are being sought. I believe that this is the answer to be given to our citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u43	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Minister, the shortage of staff referred to in your speech has as a parameter the Ministerial Decree of 6 August 2015. However, I recall that on that occasion the organic plant had already been significantly reduced compared to 1997 and, even then, there had been a huge shortage of staff. Today libraries in Italy work very often thanks to the work of many volunteers and thanks - unfortunately - to the externalizations. It's too easy to say there was a contest. The question, Minister, is that you have cut organic plants and then re-distribution on the basis of 500 places. In conclusion, I thank you for the answer, but - of course - I am not at all satisfied, because this means opening up, once again, to the precariousness and waste of public money.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u46	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I believe that the Minister's reply has been comprehensive and I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u49	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr Minister, for the moment I am satisfied with the answer, but I would like to see what you have explained to us under the regime. For now, what you have told us is fine, because the idea of streamlining and making the administrative machinery more efficient, even with regard to the Superintendence, has always been present in our electoral programme. As a result, for now we await and follow carefully the steps that will be taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u52	LIUZZI (CoR). Minister, I am partially satisfied with the following reason. You agree with me that archaeology is a peculiarity and an all-Italian tradition. However, let us add to a number of final considerations. I am partially satisfied because your speech has given us a glimpse of the possibility of monitoring and, therefore, lighting a beacon on the final results of this reform, which we are really interested in understanding.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u53	We now come to questions on initiatives to promote cultural tourism, to which the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Franceschini, will reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u56	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Madam President, Minister, after a period of crisis, tourism is in a strong recovery in Italy. Of course, we must always think from where we start and remember, for example, with reference to the subject discussed here, that for some years there was no competition for young people at the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. After a period of crisis, tourism is now in a strong recovery. Already in the first two months of 2016 there has been a resumption of arrivals, with a further increase of 5.1 percent compared to the same period of 2015. Similarly, registered presences increased by 3.3 percent. Already in 2015 the arrivals and overnight stays had been 53,340,000, with an income of 190 million euros. Basically, these are really good data, which confirm that our country is one of the most popular destinations. But there is not only tourism on our coasts, mountains and cities of art. We know that you, Minister, wanted to enhance those 6,600 kilometers of naturalistic, religious and cultural paths with a new initiative on which I ask you for more information, since 2016 is the National Year of Paths.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u59	GIRO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. Minister, I'll be shorter and more lenient. As you well know, during 2015 the Colosseum recorded a surge in the entrances, having been detached almost 7 million tickets (6,6 million, to be exact). This is, therefore, an increase over the previous year of over one million tickets. The Colosseum is truly the epicentre of the cultural tourism of Rome, which is the capital of all Italians, from the North, passing through the Centre, towards the South. So it's the emblem of Western culture. I also have the pride to recall that the complete restoration in progress of the Colosseum - in this regard I ask you where we are - was made possible precisely by the Berlusconi Government, of which I was Undersecretary, thanks to a sponsorship of Tod's SpA, therefore at zero cost to the State. We were attacked for this, while now we are talking about art bonuses and many other initiatives; we are talking about tax advantages, fortunately, and modern patronage. I would also like to know where we are with the realization of the service center for the orientation of the visit and for the management of the more than 6 million visitors of the Colosseum, that today are forced to long and endless rows, in conditions of hospitality, hospitality and orientation to the audience truly unbecoming. So I'd like to see where we're at with the race. I would like to know if it has been banned, since it has been stopped, blocked and revised, also because the months have passed; in short, I would like to know the state of the art.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u62	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, Minister, cultural tourism develops in the places of culture. The small museums, not because of their physical size, but because of the way they understand the very concept of the museum, are an example of a privileged vehicle of cultural tourism. They are clearly different from the great museums because of their specificity, but also and above all because of their intense and closer relationship with the local communities, which ties them indissolubly to the history of the places. There are national excellences, examples of great value, such as the Museo del Bisso di Sant'Antioco, which have been almost forgotten or, at best, not recognized by local institutions. I wonder why often these examples of art, culture and tradition still alive are not sufficiently valued, starting from the very concept of a small museum, understood as a forge of culture and expression of territories and their identities, given their potential, able to attract tourists from all over the world. I would like to know why these special and privileged vehicles of culture are not sufficiently recognised with substantial investments, which are still too modest at the moment, and policies of tourism promotion. Is it possible to envisage territorial agreements with local authorities in order to promote a network, under the patronage of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, in order to encourage a greater flow of tourism in small museums?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u65	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, Minister, Decree-Law No 83 of 2014, containing urgent provisions for the protection of cultural heritage, the development of culture and the revival of tourism, is very often defined and known as art bonuses for having introduced, in an innovative way in Italy, the concept of patronage in art. It must be remembered, however, for another important aspect, that of associating culture with tourism. From this point of view, cultural tourism, an evolved tourism (also from the point of view of spending capacity), can acquire a fundamental dimension for a new phase of development of our country. It may seem rhetorical to remember how Italy is universally known for the great cultural richness that characterizes it: cultural sites such as monuments, museums, archaeological areas, places of entertainment, places of environmental value, UNESCO sites, hundreds of music festivals, concert seasons, opera, theatres, cultural initiatives of various kinds, traditions that animate the territories. This legacy represents not only the past and the present, but also the future of the country, a resource to be protected and valued, which makes us unique in the international panorama. But it is now widely known that it is not enough to possess such goods; through their conservation and their recovery the concept of valorization must be fully affirmed, also through initiatives of tourist attraction. From this point of view, the ministerial directive on walks is also of interest, which tends to expand the tourist offer spreading the knowledge of walking and cycling itineraries, a new theme for Italy, but much more widespread in other countries. In this regard, I ask whether it is conceivable that the application of art bonus can also take place for interventions in favour of cultural initiatives and what further initiatives the Ministry intends to promote, also in the light of the fact that, beyond the important economic repercussions, the dissemination of culture, art and love for beauty can contribute to the improvement of the quality of life and ultimately also prevent situations of social distress, which often lead to dramatic consequences.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u68	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Madam President, Minister, our cultural and tourist heritage is an important opportunity for our country. However, some of these potentials are not exploited to date. The digital revolution has transformed the tourism industry and the web is becoming increasingly a place of tourist information and mediation. In the international context, Italian tourism is experiencing a situation of decreasing competitiveness due to the combination of structural problems and economic factors related to the economic crisis. In the era of globalisation and the cancellation of distances, the theme of accessibility, considered both from the point of view of mobility and transport, but above all also with regard to the digital network, divides the country in two, placing us in front of an accessible Italy and an inaccessible one. Since the attitude and behaviour of travellers are increasingly social and digital, digital promotion is one of the assets of Italian tourism development. We consider that 85% of companies closed globally in 2015 were companies without an Internet site. We also consider that the document of the AGID - Strategy for digital growth 2014-2020 - proposes several actions to be put in place to solve the challenges emerged in the tourism sector, related to the technological and IT delay of the Country, including the strengthening of the Network, the development of advanced marketing tools, the promotion of telematics brands. It wonders what MIBACT intends to do in this regard to make implementation of these indications, what kind of resources it thinks to invest and with what times, since we are now almost approaching to be in the middle of the cammin of our life.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u71	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, the Culture and Tourism Plan recently approved by the CIPE allocates EUR 1 billion from the Development and Cohesion Fund 2014-2020 for the implementation of countless measures to protect and enhance cultural heritage and enhance cultural tourism. I would like to ask the Minister for further information on the contents of the aforementioned plan, illustrating the main initiatives for the promotion of cultural tourism in Italy, with particular reference to the realization of projects for the valorization of ancient paths and real thematic paths, aimed at encouraging the social, economic and civil development of the territory in an area that I consider fundamental for the sustainable growth of the Country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u74	Mr Barani (AL-A). Minister, as you well know, Italy up to the 1970s was the most visited country in the world, while now we are only in the fifth place, after France, the United States, Spain and China, with 47.7 million visitors (data from your Ministry). It is a sector that has now exceeded the billion travellers, with the middle classes of emerging countries such as China, India, Russia and Brazil pressing on the offer. Italy is however the first country in the Eurozone for the number of nights spent by non-European tourists, with 54 million nights per year and an average cost of 100 euros per day. We are behind not only on infrastructure and quality of reception, but above all in an important field such as digital. The share of tourism via the web is only 26% against a European average of 49% (about double). With the so-called decree culture and tourism you have taken an interesting initiative introducing a new type of innovative start-up that is the start-up tourism. The rule provides that companies that have as their social object the promotion of the national tourist offer through the use of technologies and the development of original software can also be considered innovative start-ups, in particular by acting through the provision of services aimed at tourism enterprises. In these two years with this initiative of the start-up tourism has it obtained positive and competitive effects at a global level? What judgment does it give and what effect has it had?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u77	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, I think that when we talk about tourism we need to know the sector, and often many of our colleagues consider themselves tourism experts only because they went on holiday in Riccione. Having said that, our country is now in sixth place, not fifth place, behind the United States, Spain, France, China and Macao, as far as business is concerned. We have more UNESCO sites than all the other countries put together, but the Louvre alone removes more tickets than all the Italian museums put together. Between 2015 and 2016 someone says that our hotels have registered more arrivals than in previous years. Let's ask ourselves why. Because of international terrorism, many tourists no longer travel to France, Belgium, Turkey, Tunisia and Egypt. As a result, our compatriots choose to stay in Italy and for this reason someone fills his mouth. Let us ask, however, why this is so. Given this, Minister, in recent months CIPE has launched the Culture and Tourism Plan, allocating one billion euros of the Development and Cohesion Fund 2014-2020 for the implementation of numerous interventions throughout the national territory, aimed at the protection of cultural heritage and to increase its usability. The plan should theoretically serve to promote the image of Italy in the world and aim at relaunching the competitiveness of our country. I say maybe we should shut down ENIT to make the most of our country. I therefore ask the Minister whether he intends to give more guidance on this plan, especially in terms of tourism promotion and whether he intends to involve the Italian tour operators, who are waiting for someone from the Ministry to finally strike a blow.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u80	LIUZZI (CoR). Minister, cultural tourism is one of the most promising markets for the economy of our country, since it directly produces income for all operators in the value-creation chain, with positive effects also in terms of employment. We walk on immense deposits of finds, ruins, archaeological, artistic and architectural finds. We move into a landscape that is a singular mix, when not defaced, natural and built. Out of metaphor: Italy as "great beauty." This type of tourism, moreover, is characterized by greater sustainability compared to the so-called "mass tourism," which negatively affects the use of the landscape, the soil and the environment. The tourism of places and cultural heritage, moreover, allows to enhance one of the most important structures of which Italy is in possession: culture understood as heritage (cultural heritage) and cultural production and material and intangible content. For these reasons, we believe it is necessary for the Government to initiate policies aimed not only at consolidating the sector in its entirety, but also at promoting policies to support an increasingly intense entry into the market of players able to increase its levels of competitiveness and reach new demand segments, such as fashion and food and wine. On behalf of the Conservatives and Reformists, I ask you to know whether the Government intends to promote, and at what time, tax measures to promote the tourism-cultural sector, including through the application of a reduced VAT rate for cultural tourism and more generally for the production of cultural content. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Franceschini, Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u81	Madam President, here too I shall try to combine the answers on issues. The data of 2015, the data of the year of Expo, are absolutely positive data, that find a confirmation and a strengthening in the first months of 2016. I'm talking about tourism data in our country. This is because, to the constant growth, that has continued also in the years of the crisis, of the international tourism in our country has also added a return of the internal tourism. All of you, moreover, have seen the data of this summer and how growth has been distributed throughout the national territory, for some behaviors related to legitimate concerns related to terrorism. An exception is represented in Rome, the great city, because terrorism is the main cause of concern for tourists who travel the world. I listened, again, to the reference to our position in the charts, recalled by Senators Fucksia, Barani and Centinario. But here we have to be very precise. Our country is fifth (apart from Macau). But how can we compare today's situation with the situation of the 1960s or 1970s? Forty years ago, when Italy was the most visited country in the world, there were 25 million international travellers, today there are one billion and 200 million. Countries that attract international tourism grow enormously, competitiveness grows: who would have said ten years ago that Dubai, in the middle of the desert, would become one of the most attractive destinations for international tourism? So I think that we should look at the absolute value more than interested in rankings, also because the turnover of our companies is not calculated with the position in the ranking but with the absolute numbers that mark a constant growth of tourism in Italy that will grow very much, especially at international level, because Italy is the first desired destination of travel in all the countries of the world. There are countries that up to five or ten years ago did not bring tourists into the global market, we think of China, and that today place millions of new tourists every month. The first desired destination of travel is Italy. So, even if in the dialectic majority-opposition the confrontation is normal, we have to pose another problem, that is how to govern the growth of tourism, because we want it to grow, but we want it to grow a certain type of tourism and we want to tell also the positive data, for example the fact that we, as Barani said, are the first European country for non-European tourism. And these numbers will grow tremendously. We must therefore develop strategies, and that is what we are trying to do with the Strategic Plan for the development of tourism in Italy that has already had two important stages in Pietrarsa. This is a very participatory mechanism: we have involved all regions, municipalities, trade associations, private individuals and the digital world to come out with a strategic plan that is ultimately shared. Then everyone will play their part, the public, the private, the State and the Region, but it must be a shared project, then written together. A meeting of the Standing Committee on Tourism will be held on 27 July. We will see whether it will be the one in which the Strategic Plan will be adopted for the next five years or whether it will be in September; then it will go to the Council of Ministers because it provides for the law. Inside that Strategic Plan we basically reason around two cornerstones, precisely because the aim is to govern growth: first of all Italy as a museum diffused because it is the first need that we have, and here I am talking about small museums, a theme that I totally share. In fact, if all foreign tourists who come to Italy, the millions of tourists who come and the millions more who will come, fortunately, they will all go to see the Rialto Bridge, the Trevi Fountain and the Uffizi, those places will not succeed. They can't do so much today, it's true that we talk about tickets and tickets because they are fragile places that can contain a number of people and not an infinite number. And the paradox is that in those same cities, or in cities a few kilometers away, not to mention the Mezzogiorno and other parts of Italy, there are wonderful places that in another country would be alone able to attract international tourism and that are not valued as they deserve. So our first goal is Italy as a popular museum. When we go to promote abroad we do not go to promote those who do not need it but the smaller cities. The same idea of the general capital of culture that is having a great success - this year I speak of Mantua - serves precisely to enhance and make known, in the international showcases, the less known places. So, the strategy of small museums, Senator Serra, goes all this way. The regional museum poles have this task exclusively: to enhance the entire system of smaller state museums, because we talk about those of our own property, and to work to build fully integrated promotion plans, at least with other public museums. For a year and a half now we have established a table that works with the ANCI because really, when a tourist arrives in a city, that the museum is of the Municipality or the State does not interest him; he would like the integrated ticketing, he would like the integrated promotion and compatible timetables. Working on the museum system, also and not only on the state system: this is the task of the museum poles. Of course, there is no need for promotion of the Uffizi, or Pompeii, or the Colosseum, which must be valued in terms of quality of services and supply. The Uffizi are closed. And it is not true, Senator Centinario, that the Louvre makes more tickets than all the Italian museums. Italy makes far more tickets than all the French museums; the only Italian museums in the state are 43 million visitors and are ten percent of the Italian museums. So if we look at the single museum, the Louvre makes more tickets than a single Italian museum and it will always be so because the Louvre is twelve times larger than the Uffizi that are at maximum capacity and are closed number, so they cannot grow as numbers of visitors. If we look at the overall figure, Italy is absolutely the first country in terms of number of visitors, even more than France. That said, this distribution work must be done: the first cornerstone is constituted by Italy as a diffuse museum and the second pillar is constituted by sustainable tourism, that is compatible with the fragility of our landscape and our cities of art, that focuses on excellence and quality and not on tourism "bite and run away," so the visitor comes, does not consume, does not bring wealth and passes distractedly, without leaving even a benefit for the cities or places he crosses. As far as the Colosseum is concerned, I believe that the entrepreneur Della Valle has done a meritorious operation: then criticism is always ideological. This is an important intervention: in this case, among other things, it is not a donation, because there was not even the art bonus, but a sponsorship intervention. Tomorrow morning it will be returned to the city, with a ceremony of inauguration, the restoration of the exterior, thanks to the financing of the enterprise. The work will continue with the intervention on the hypogeans, to which are added the public resources - equal to 18 million euros - for the restoration and reconstruction of the arena, which in my opinion constitutes a great passage of valorization of the Colosseum. As for the service centre, in these weeks the tender for the executive project is being launched, which is made necessary by the new legislation on public works. The Superintendence tells me that it will take about three years for the service centre to be operational. As far as Senator Conte's question about art bonus is concerned, I believe that this is an operation that has been expected for years: several governments have tried and we have come to realize it. It is an important success in terms of numbers, but it is more important from a pedagogical point of view, that is to convince citizens and businesses that they have to do something about their country's cultural heritage. However, it is also important from a material point of view: at a stage that is still experimental, with a rule not yet made permanent - since it has been made permanent only by the last law of stability - we have reached over 100 million euros of liberal disbursements, with about 2,500 donors. Now that the rule has been stabilized, there is still a growing interest. I therefore think that this legislation is important and that it would be nice to extend it to private individuals, but this has a cost and, therefore, we must proceed as a step. In view of the situation of budgets and public resources, it has been a great achievement to foresee such an important tax incentive. Moreover, in addition to donations, there is also another way to intervene, since we have recently amended the legislation on sponsorships (not donations): there is no longer that twisted procedure, which led to reply to those who wanted to propose a sponsorship, that for this reason should have been banned a competition. The procedure is now very simplified: there is an offer of sponsorship and then, if within thirty days there is an improvement offer, well, otherwise you accept that sponsorship. It is therefore a path parallel to that of donations and the art bonus, which can be used a lot. With regard to the so-called CIPE plan, mentioned by Senators Zeller and Centinario, this is a very important choice, as we are talking about EUR 1 billion. I have been questioned that the resources have not been allocated for small maintenance operations, but for this sector there are other resources, which have been reintroduced into the stability law of last year. My Ministry, when I arrived, had 35 million euros for the interventions on the heritage: now there is the billion euros of CIPE for the great cultural tourist attractors, according to European rules. So these are interventions that cannot be small: they must be great interventions, which also have a return from a cultural and economic point of view. Then there are the 490 million euros of the National Operational Programme (NOP) for the Regions of the Mezzogiorno and the 300 million euros - 100 million euros per year - for the maintenance operations. It seems to me that we have set in motion and that there is awareness, in a field that I believe is shared by majority and opposition, of the need for resources, for the vastness of our cultural and monumental heritage. In this context the theme of the itineraries arises. The current year is the international year of the paths: this is an important issue and this morning I presented an initiative together with representatives of four regions. I think the paths are a formidable vehicle for sustainable tourism and the enhancement of the less well-known parts of our country. And I think we have made a choice following this declaration of principle, providing for 60 million euros within the billion of the CIPE plan (destining 20 to the Via Francigena, 20 to the Ways of Francis and 20 to the Via Appia), which will serve for the structures, from the signposting to the services. This integrates with that beautiful project that we are carrying out with the State Agency and the ANAS on the cantoniere houses, as a brand that really has enormous potential, for the hospitality of support to this type of tourism, which in fact requires a certain type of hospitality. Those who undertake a religious journey, in the evening do not want to go to sleep in a five-star hotel, but want to find along the path of the reception facilities compatible with that type of tourism. In conclusion, with regard to tourism, it would be good to be able to intervene in many areas, but we have already done something, for example with the tax credit for the digitisation of accommodation structures, in order to fill the structural delay that exists, both in the public and in the private, in the digital supply of tourism, which is the sector that most of all has entered the digital world. I am thinking therefore of the digital tax credit for accommodation facilities, the tax credit for hotel restructuring, which had a boom of questions and all the promotion work that we are doing through the new National Tourism Agency (ENIT). I am talking about new ENIT because we have changed the name of the Commissioner, it has become an economic public body, we have changed its governance, all the staff have chosen to remain in the public sector, so the new governance of the ENIT is assuming through procedures of selection of people who are able to stay in the competitive world of tourism. Of course, changes are not made with the magic wand, but with fatigue and sweat. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u84	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Madam President, I am satisfied with the Minister's answers. What he said demonstrates the great commitment of him and the Government to relaunch tourism in our country and I am convinced that if the constitutional reform were to pass that, with the modification of Title V, would give the State the possibility to legislate on tourism, we would even be able to strengthen these policies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u87	GIRO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am satisfied and am glad that the Minister has converted on the way to the Colosseum. Since we have signed the convention with Gianni Letta and Silvio Berlusconi, I hope that Minister Franceschini will mention them tomorrow when the restorations of the southern and northern perspective of the Colosseum and the ambulances will be returned. It is an integral restoration, imposing, important; all the acts are signed by Silvio Berlusconi; an agreement was made with the Tod's SpA of Diego Della Valle. Let's remember that once in a while. He, Head of the PD and today Minister, and Orfini, today president of the PD then national delegate to culture, accused me of wanting to sell the Colosseum to the scarf of the Marches. These are the words used by PD. I immediately replied that I had done so because I had not found the palazzinar of Rome, because I imagined that the great builders, who are the pillar of the Roman economy, would make themselves available to restore a monument: it was not a shoe, but a monument. They accused me of wanting to cartoon the Colosseum. Was it cardboarded? No, because Diego Della Valle went to China, Brazil and was the only sponsor of the Colosseum. This was provided for in the convention, and he, who is an intelligent person, could boast of it. They thought a person would come by with a lambretta and see the Colosseum wrapped up, so they got scared. I am therefore pleased that the Minister has converted on the way to the Colosseum and I hope that a mention will be made tomorrow. I remember, in conclusion, that of the 100 million euros collected from all museums and archaeological areas, 35 come from the Colosseum, so there is too much inequality. It cashes all the Colosseum and the rest little or nothing; there is, therefore, an inequality in the collections and therefore we have to work much on these museum poles, because the museums of Nemi, Tarquinia and Palestrina are abandoned. Let's just say the way it is.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u90	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, I thank the Minister. I would be satisfied if what he said was also the reality lived in everyday life. For now I read and hear almost dreamy words. Making Italy a popular museum would be wonderful, but for now there are small and large museums closed and practically prevented from access. I am therefore partially satisfied with your reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u93	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I too am satisfied with the Minister's comments on the conceptual framework in the management of cultural tourism. I note with satisfaction, although they are known to all, also the important numbers that the Government is devoting to the sector of cultural and monumental goods in Italy. I continue to have a worm in my head, which is to walk the road of the possibility of applying the art bonus to initiatives. I know that the interlocutor should be the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance rather than the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, but I certainly believe that we share on this path and I believe that as Members we will work to extend the application of the art bonus.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u96	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Madam President, I am satisfied and confident. I really like this trinomial between culture, tourism and innovation as a strategic factor to promote the development of the country, also with a view to reducing the gap and the inequalities present. It is important to increase the attractiveness of the territories, implement IT technologies and develop entrepreneurial and managerial skills that are often lacking. It is also important to ensure that this design of interventions is coordinated and targeted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u99	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I too am satisfied with the Minister's reply. I believe that Minister Franceschini has done an excellent job in the past and I am convinced that he will also do some very important and innovative things for culture and tourism in Italy in the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u102	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, the idea of a widespread museum and a widespread culture, of spiritual paths, such as the Franciscan and Franciscan, which have nothing to envy in Santiago di Compostela, is really great. The Via Francigena passes also in my Aulla, where there is the Saint protector. Here they discovered the mortal remains of the Saint of the Via Francigena, an evangelizer born in the Middle East who founded an important Cistercian order in France. Yesterday I was with his Undersecretary Dorina Bianchi in Viterbo. Even with the valorization of places such as the thermal path, with all the scattered pools, of the Baths of the Popes - which I refer back to the Via Francigena because Pope Niccolò V who founded them was my Lunigiana landlord - you will be able to make a great masterpiece and resume that first place, which we need and which we deserve, compared to the countries that (there are only four) precede us in the ranking. Minister, we are sure that we will succeed with you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u105	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr Minister, while we had given you some credit on the first subject before, today I am not satisfied not as a senator but as a tourist operator. I am satisfied with the figure allocated by CIPE. That's why you're absolutely right. I am not satisfied with the non-tourist policies we are currently doing in Italy. I do not say that, but colleagues from the various tour operators, travel agencies and all those working in the sector. It pains me to read you four lines: Italy, while having a unique tourist heritage in the world (art, history, food, sea, mountain and city, just to mention some of the attractions), is unfortunately losing ground: the offer has not evolved, the promotion abroad is little thing, the institutions do not have a well defined promotion policy and the presence on the web is very lacking. The Belpaese has now slipped to sixth place (I was right) for receipts deriving from tourism (...), behind the United States, Spain, France, China and Macao. Madam President, Minister, unfortunately Macau is also here. I love your optimism; the problem is that our tourism sector - I repeat again - is waiting for answers and, in this case, there is no competence with regard to the world of tourism.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u108	LIUZZI (CoR). Minister, I listened carefully and with interest. You have, as always, shown a broad and comprehensive vision of the sector. This is the burden of further responsibility, in the sense that, within the Government, it must imply that this is an area on which we absolutely need to invest even more. Tourism and, in particular, cultural tourism can be a lever for development and can produce new jobs, especially for the intellectual unemployment that we are so concerned about. With regard to the detaxation that I asked for in my speech, I believe that the government should do even more if it wants to reap the benefits of overall development. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Franceschini for his helpfulness and all the interrogators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u109	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-652.ana.u110	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 5 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.16 p.m.
