ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u10	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, the draft law we are about to deal with concerns Italy's participation in international missions and it is a measure that has been examined by the Senate's Defence and Foreign Affairs Committees. I would therefore ask whether it would be possible for the Presidency to speak to ask for a Minister or a Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to be present in the Chamber. I remember that a problem arose in the Commission and we did not get the answers on the amendments tabled. The Secretary for Defence may not assume the responsibilities of the Undersecretary or the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Since there will already be a problem with the first amendment that we are going to put to the vote, I would ask, if possible, for a Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to be present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u11	Senator Marton, we can make the government aware of this and I hope that your representatives here will be able to urge a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u12	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1917-B, already approved by the House of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Cirielli and others. Durants and others; Carnations and others; Artini and others, modified by the Senate and again modified by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteurs, Senators Casini and Latorre, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Latorre.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u13	Mr President, we agreed with my colleague, Mr Casini, to make a communication rather than a report, being at the fourth reading of this measure and having therefore extensively examined, related and discussed the issue covered by the measure. As you quite rightly said in the presentation of the agenda, we will only be able to speak on that part of the measure which has been amended to the House, where three changes have been substantially made. The first change was made in paragraph 3 of Article 1, specifying in detail the United Nations resolutions on women, peace and security, after No 1325 of 2000. In this regard, I would like to say that here in the Senate, unanimously, accepting a request from the opposition groups (and in particular from the 5 Star Movement), we had considered it appropriate not to list in a specific way the different resolutions of the United Nations to which we refer, in order to allow them to be acquired implicitly as soon as possible. On the other hand, in the House it was considered to list the resolutions again in a specific way and, therefore, the related amendment was adopted with the consent of all the Groups, except that of the 5 Star Movement, which abstained on the vote of the article so modified. The other amendment to the House takes discretion from the Government in relation to the application of the military penal code of war. In the provision we had approved in the Senate we had provided for a substantial discretion, which instead the House is bound to the adoption of a special bill. The last amendment, which, in truth, in some way tended to specify the meaning of an implicit provision even in the adoption made to the Senate, is related to the entry into force of the new conformation of the Copasir. These are the three changes made to the House and these are the only three parts of the measure on which the Senate can take further action. Of course, our hope, which I believe I share with my colleague Mr Casini, is that the process of the measure will end with this reading, first of all because it is an extraordinarily important choice that aims at finally defining a definitive legal framework, which does not imply the need to adopt periodic decree-laws, which guarantees the coverage of our women and our men on mission and which defines in a complete manner the relationship between the different institutional levels in all the matter. In addition, for the umpteenth time I stress the importance of a broad consensus of Parliament on this measure. I would remind you that in the Commission, although there have been various votes on individual amendments, there has also been a very constructive attitude on the part of the opposition forces. And there was also a contribution, which was taken seriously - of course in the previous reading, when we had room for change - through the transposition of the suggestions from the opposition. Therefore, the appeal I make to colleagues from other political forces, from the parliamentary opposition groups, is to share this measure which, although not approved with particular solemnity in this last reading, is really important, gives glory to our Parliament and above all puts us in a better position to carry out our functions at the international level, which are a fundamental chapter of the story of our country. Let me also take advantage of this opportunity to address yet another expression of closeness and a greeting to our military engaged in international peace missions, which are one of the greatest reasons for our country's pride. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u14	I call the rapporteur, Senator Casini.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u15	Mr President, I turn to Mr Latorre's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u16	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the sobriety and dry tone of the report by my fellow Members Mr Latorre and Mr Casini must not take away the importance of the vote that I hope the Senate will be able to vote in favour of this measure this morning. An institutional profile long pursued in history by the republican order has led us to equip ourselves with an instrument for which the relationship between Parliament and Government in the matter of international politics is as transparent and as open as possible to the control of the Chambers, but it is not paralyzed by that wall that seemed insurmountable for almost half a century: Article 11 of the Constitution, the question of peace. Thanks to the instrument that Parliament - I hope - will adopt, we are going through this wall and we are giving our international policy the maximum instrument of control by Parliament and the speed of decision by the Commission. Our foreign policy, for many years now, has a significant, perhaps decisive, moment in the presence of our international missions. I am not saying that our foreign policy is focused and restricted exclusively to international missions, but it is clear that those Italian citizens in uniform, who represent us on the ground of international organizations or simply in the implementation of the principles of international law, are our foreign policy. They must never lack the broadest and most convinced support of Parliament, regardless of the majority and opposition in internal politics. I would like to take up two points from Mr Latorre, the first on codification. All in all it is better this way: it is better an excess of prudence and slowness in the matter of code, putting ourselves on the applicability of the code to the bill of government. Secondly, it was more than appropriate for Parliament to heal the wound of representativeness within a parliamentary body such as the Copasir, which precluded colleagues from an important group in this Senate from joining. Hence the hope that the bill can be approved as announced by the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u18	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u19	Mr President, we will also make a brief statement, especially because few measures have the history of this bill, in the sense that they are the result of a combination of legislative initiatives of majority and opposition. Each Group has succeeded in making changes and has made its contribution, thus creating a widely shared text. It is an organic measure - as has already been said - that substantially exceeds the famous rite of decree-laws that always arrive late and that - in our opinion - present the problem of leaving all our military abroad legally uncovered. This measure will no longer be able to operate in total arbitrariness, as has happened in the past when very controversial and questionable decisions have been taken, such as those for the Kosovo war. It is clear what conditions our military can use and that we will never be able to intervene in wars of aggression, but we will only be able to participate in missions established in the Atlantic Alliance, the OSCE or the European Union. The procedure seems to us correct: the President of the Council informs the President of the Republic, who could also alert the Supreme Council of Defense; then it will be the Chambers that will determine the geographical area, the objectives, the composition of the forces, our staff, the duration and the resources that, in the end, will find cover under the law of stability. We just want to make a little comment, because it remains a grey area: the opinions that the Commissions will give seem to be non-binding, because the government might also ignore them. In fact, the Government could persist in its counter-deductions and nothing is said of the case in which they were rejected again by the Commissions. We welcome this experiment, which still has an unclear and not well defined area. We have tabled two amendments which seek to protect our military more effectively when situations are such that we can no longer apply the military penal code of peace and, instead, have to resort to the military penal code of war. We would like the latter to be able to apply by a decree-law, which even facilitates the Government, to be communicated immediately to the Chambers. The relevant Commissions should give their consent immediately or otherwise not allow it. These are two amendments which have been rejected in the Commission - and we understand that - because they would involve a fifth reading, but they would improve the conditions of military personnel and allow for a greater speed of the subsequent measures that the Government would bring to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u20	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to make a few brief comments. Our Group is in favour of the international missions and the draft law under consideration, which comes back for a fourth reading, partly because, within the framework of security policies, it is appropriate to ensure a more respectful composition of Parliament and the supervisory bodies of the services. After so many other occasions, therefore, it was decided to identify in this draft law the instrument to respect a democratic principle of representation which was considered related to such events. Our favourable attitude to international missions has also been demonstrated in the recent decree-law and on this occasion. This, however, does not prevent us from pointing out - as was the case in the Joint Defence and Foreign Affairs Commissions just now - the need for parliamentary passages, which the President of the Council also suggested, with regard to the continuation of the mission in Afghanistan, which was to end years ago and was instead extended. And I am right to add, because - in our opinion - if the international military mission in Afghanistan were to cease, those territories would probably be quickly regained by the control of Islamic fundamentalists. With all the international connections, the Islamic State - which, as we have seen, has emerged in Libya - would have no difficulty, beyond the material distances, to have an ideological consonance and fanaticism with groups that had to regain those territories. It is obvious that the continuation of that mission, as has been shown at the recent international summits of NATO, will also have to be discussed in depth in Parliament with the President-in-Office of the Council. And this is a point that Senator Mauro raised in the Commission in the name of his experience as Minister of Defence in previous governments. I would also like to remind you that, in approving the missions, Italy's international commitments, the fight against all the phenomena of terrorism and fundamentalism that threaten the planet, we have strong doubts about Operation EUNAVFOR Med, which continues day by day, talking about international missions, to transport thousands of illegal immigrants to Italy. However, the third phase, of which so much is said - that is, the fight against the scafists and traffickers in Libya, with the collaboration of the Libyan Government - does not take place, because the conditions for the viability of the Libyan Government are scarce. In the package of these missions, therefore, there is also this, on which we have always raised justified concerns and, therefore, we invite the Government to reflect on the EUNAVFOR Med mission. To continue in fact in the first and second phase, with reference that is to the transport of the illegals in Italy, not being able to implement the third phase, leads to overload the Country of the presence of foreigners, of tensions on the territories, of ships that are shipped today to Sardinia and tomorrow elsewhere, with the prefectures that do not know how to face the dislocation of illegals - some of which are refugees, but others not - with all the tensions that derive from it. I therefore affirm that it remains to the acts that, in favor of the bill under consideration, the Group of Forza Italia points out that the passage of time does not induce the Government to a critical reflection and suspension of the mission. In conclusion, I would like to add that the recent NATO summit in Warsaw has also decided to send other ships in support of Operation Sophia EUNAVFOR Med. This means that there will be more ships, which will bring more illegals. The boatmen know it and they'll start more hulls. Now, the fact that NATO increases the number of ships, since there is no guarantee of the third phase to fight the hullers, is a way to help a confused and inappropriate transhumance, whose numbers are quantified as very important indeed. It is said, with reason, that they are 200,000, 300,000 or a million; and then it is said that they are not, and instead it is, since only in the last twenty days in Italy 15,000 have been brought. The number, therefore, we find it in the transport. We have a strong reservation on this matter and we believe that the government should reflect on it. I read that days ago also Piero Fassino, perhaps illuminated by the negative electoral results of Turin, in the meeting of the Democratic Party of that city said that perhaps his party underestimated the issue of immigration and even spoke of separate rankings for the allocation of housing of popular housing. If you had said so, Mr Calderoli, or I would have been accused of racial discrimination. Because Fassino said so, you might say. He, however, created a precedent and, therefore, I call on everyone to reflect on immigration policies, and on the fact that the EUNAVFOR Med mission, as it is implemented, also aggravates them, does not solve them and makes them even more complex. Therefore, our support for all international interventions and even the announced continuation of intervention in Afghanistan does not remove our reservations, which we are expressing today. "Ceterum censeo ": we therefore risk a warning, which concerned Carthage, that is, a city located on the other side of the Mediterranean. So we can say that we have always had a problem with Carthage and I would also like to remind this House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u24	Rossi Luciano (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, we are at the fourth reading of this measure and, as a result, this already requires a reflection and consideration on the critical issues, but also on the lengths that often occur on such sensitive issues, on which we should instead be much more timely. It is clear that, in this respect, we are at a time when the necessary change of system is being addressed. There is no doubt that this issue has been deepened in the Commission's work: the rapporteur, Mr Latorre, and Mr Casini, have encouraged wide-ranging discussions and participated in the substantive committees. The spirit testified was constructive and cooperative, so much so that - as President Latorre said in his speech - it arrived to evaluate and vote on opposition amendments as well. The House of Deputies then wanted to change this method, certainly creating some embarrassment, even at today's Commission meeting, but common sense made a difference. More attention must therefore be paid to our compatriots, women and men engaged abroad in theatres of absolute criticality, but also, at the same time, in missions of peace. It is a theme that sees protagonists of men and women in our country so able to respect the traditions and cultures of the territories in which they carry out their missions. And this is an element that determines an important added value also for the proximity to their stories and for the necessary information that can be collected. Having inserted the theme concerning the Copasir is extremely relevant and, therefore, our assessment is positive, because - I repeat - the theme is sensitive and certainly of interest to our country, depositary of a history, a culture and a humanity that see it as the protagonist in the global scenario and, in particular, in the theatres of greatest criticality in the world. Therefore, the assessment of the measure is positive and - as Mr Gualdani will say later - our vote will be in favour. [[Applause from Senators Comrade and Latorre.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u25	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u26	I am against Amendment 1,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u27	The Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u28	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,300. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Marton and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,300. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u29	I am against Amendments 2,300 and 2,301.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u30	The Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u31	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,300. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,300, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,301, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I recall that Articles 3 to 19 are identical to Articles 3 to 19 of the text approved by the Senate. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 20. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I recall that Articles 21 to 25 are identical to Articles 21 to 25 of the text approved by the Senate. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 26, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u32	I am against Amendment 26,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u33	The Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u34	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 26,300. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26,300, tabled by Senators Santangelo and Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 26. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u37	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, since we have been dealing with this subject for a long time, my explanation of vote will be brief and concise. The vote of the Conservative and Reformist Group on this measure is strongly in favour. Moreover, on international missions we have always declared our vote in favour, given the importance of Italy's participation in all this and the role that our troops and our committed civilians play in every theatre after the UN or NATO resolutions. It is an important and decisive role, for the capacity of our military and our civilians also in terms of humanity, which is certainly not found in other countries. An equally important fact is that this measure is the result of an open and continuous debate in Parliament, which is a good way to ensure that many things are born in Parliament and do not come from the Government. At last we have given a frame and a certainty to our military, who now know why they act and how they act, with clear rules and with well-defined military war codes. Of course, economic treatment should be reviewed, since people risk their lives every day and live in health conditions that are certainly not ideal, given the theaters in which they operate. These are things to see. Today, as has happened before, any representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is absent. As the other nations do in these missions, I believe that the military presence must be accompanied by a clear foreign policy action in these countries, in order to ensure that Italy has a decisive and important role, given the contribution it offers in terms of men, means, civilians and often human lives. That is what we hope for. We hope to be able to have a debate on this issue when a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is worthy of coming to debate and debate in Parliament. Confirming the favorable vote of the Conservatives and Reformists Group, I wish all our young people abroad good luck. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u40	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we also refer to the statements made earlier in the general debate. We will agree to this measure, which has seen substantially the contribution of the North League. We point out that there is a grey area, where it is certainly not the power of the Commissions when they differ from the will of the Government. We also stress the need to better protect our military personnel engaged in a foreign mission, by adopting, where possible, the military penal code of war, which guarantees greater effectiveness and protection against the risks to which our military are inevitably subjected. Having made these comments, which had to be said, there will also be a vote in favour of the North League. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u43	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, in view of the measure to be voted on, I am voting in favour of the People's Area and I turn over the text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Reports of today's sitting. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u44	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Gualdani.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u47	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too will be brief in order not to dread this House. I would like to stigmatize for the umpteenth time the attitude that the Government has shown in dealing with this measure. The only real reason why we are still, in the fourth reading, to have to pronounce on this measure is the fact that there is an agreement between Forza Italia and PD to increase the number of Copasir members. You have made us work unworthyly in the last two days; you have had the measure scheduled in this House even before the Commission, where there has been a farce. We do not understand why the PD allowed the House of Deputies to change parts that were well done. We had to discuss foreign affairs with the Secretary of State for Defence without the Minister for Foreign Affairs or his representative ever showing up. That is not the way to work. I also consider it unworthy that a draft law has been used to amend and circumvent another law, No. 124 of 2007, to increase the parliamentary committee for the security of the Republic by two members only at the end of its term of office. You have bypassed Law No. 124 with this provision exclusively for Forza Italia [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is unworthy: you have never seen such a thing. I would like to understand what Forza Italia will give you in exchange for this measure. I am not opposed to the fact that members of the Copasir can increase or that Forza Italia is entitled to be represented, but I completely disagree with the method: it was enough simply to make a bill to amend Law No. 124 and everything would be fine. In addition, I do not think that this amendment should be made solely because part of the Group has been dissolved; I recall that the Group was represented by the Vice-President who is now with the NCD. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This cannot be done exclusively in the interests of a single Group: this is the scandalous thing, and you use the bill missions, which were necessary, to make this scumbag. Well, you're voting for this piece of shit! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u50	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we too make a brief explanation of vote, simply to confirm all the concerns we expressed at the sitting of 9 March last, when the Senate discussed the draft law at second reading. We have strong doubts because, if the law was necessary to put an end to the criterion of the emergence of the decree-law on missions, in reality the objective has not been achieved for various reasons. The main thing that we have noted and which we have repeatedly pointed out is certainly the lack and guarantee of strong control by Parliament. But we understand that this bill also fits very well in the larger plan of this Government, namely the centralization of functions and powers in the Executive and the emptying of legislative assemblies. For us it would have been necessary a law to restore an international role to Italy and to Italian foreign policy, to give a strong coverage and a framework to our real international missions, civil missions and peace, with full reference to Article 11 of the Constitution, and not instead to missions with real bombing operations, as we have seen, among other things, with the recent decree-law missions approved a few weeks ago by the Senate. We have asked, and again our request has not been accepted, for there to be certainty about the allocation of funding. Among other things, we have always asked for an analysis of the results and objectives of the various missions and the opportunity to allocate resources. On the other hand, the choice to allocate resources to an International Mission Fund once again moves the whole decision on the distribution, then purely administrative, of the Government. For us, once again, an international opportunity has been lost precisely to recognize the role of our country that repudiates war and regulates the use of force as an element of supranationality and for purposes other than those of war. Well, we would have liked a bill on missions that would first respect Article 11 of our Constitution, because it was an opportunity to demilitarise the profile of our foreign policy and prevent Italy from participating in war missions, as unfortunately has happened and has been happening for too many years. We therefore confirm our abstention vote. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u53	Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the third examination by the House, a long legislative process has been completed which will finally enable us to overcome the age-old discipline of the urgent decree on international missions. These missions represent, as is natural, a qualifying point of our foreign policy, especially at a time of serious and high security risk throughout the Mediterranean. In recent days in the Senate we have expressed our support for yet another, perhaps last, conversion of a decree-law to refinance missions. We have done so as always as a force of responsible opposition, having esteem and gratitude to our Armed Forces that stand out for their sense of duty and high professionalism, despite the continuous reductions of expenditure that the sector has suffered so far. Now finally, after several years, perhaps the spiral of cuts to the defence sector has been interrupted, which over the years has seemed to be an ATM to draw more frequently. A change of course, however, still limited if we want the country to fulfil in an appropriate manner the countless international commitments to which it is called, while at the same time having to guarantee, through the Armed Forces, an appropriate framework of security to the country. Our positive vote on the measure, again on this occasion, does not, however, mitigate the strongly critical attitude towards the government's foreign policy work. All the more so when the awareness of being exposed, like or more than others, to the risk of bloodthirsty terrorism that continues to reap innocent victims. A serious and dramatic danger to world balances, as we did not remember from the second conflict. We follow, therefore, to consider the Italian foreign policy to be lacking, which is silent and tacit in the wake of allies committed so far to dispersing energy in imposing sanctions on Russia, also deploying thousands of NATO military to its borders, rather than involving it in the common and dramatic fight against terrorism that ignites the world. The same blindness in the fact that the Atlantic Alliance has very late understood that the real primary danger comes from the South border and not from the eastern borders, as the Italian Parliament tried many months ago to make the Secretary-General of NATO understand. Not to mention the endorsement of the disastrous Arab Springs, arms support and funding for the anti-Assad forces in Syria, including terrorist groups. In short, they would have much to make amends to President Obama, Mrs Clinton and other "statists," so to speak, Western, lacking and lacking in recent foreign policy choices. On the stabilisation of Libya, while appreciating the caution of the Italian Government, after a first muscular and bellicist approach, we would like to better understand what benefits we will derive from a Libyan Executive that at one point in its political program, President Calderoli, predicted the shari'a as the only source of the right. It is astonishing that no one in Italy or Europe has posed the problem of the detail of democracy and civil rights in the near future of that country. The only certainty, for the moment, is that from Libya, even in the presence of an almost legitimate Government, thousands of people continue to leave at the mercy of traffickers and criminal organizations who profit from their despair. And all this also thanks to the encouraging policies of the Italian governments of recent years and despite the missions of apparent contrast launched by the European Union, whose objectives have been disregarded, as our Group has repeatedly denounced. In this sense, the mission EUNAVFOR Med, born to dismantle the smuggling of migrants and for which €70 million have been allocated, has betrayed the reasons why it was born. With the same mission, Libyan coastguards and navy will be trained in the near future, but how much time will it spend to put a stop to the uncontrollable trafficking of human beings? When will the neo-premier al-Sarraj be able to control the Libyan coasts by himself? How long will the financing of terrorism be allowed through the smuggling of migrants? We are sure that Minister Pinotti will not fail to ask these questions to the Libyan Vice Premier who will be in our country in the next few hours. Allow us, therefore, some doubts about the foreign policy choices of the Italian Government, despite announcing our vote in favour of the measure under consideration. We have cried, President, in recent days the last Italian victims in the attack of Dacca, but the Italian Government in those days, with an unhappy and self-harmful choice, has suspended the supply of spare parts of F-16 aircraft to Egypt, that is to say to a decisive friendly country in Libya, the main ally in North Africa, of which we are also the second trading partner. A useless and amateuristic hostile gesture, after the withdrawal of the ambassador, towards a country daily engaged in the fight against terror that has reaped in recent days also Italian victims. The only result obtained, through a symbolic gesture - they say from the parts of the PD - was to raise the level of opposition, which will neither help to discover the guilty ones of the killing Regens, nor to demand in the right ways, firmly and far-sightedly, the truth, without imposing on that country a truth preconstituted by our emotions. However, we confirm our vote in favour of an important legislative measure on which Forza Italia has spent well in the two branches of Parliament, pleased with the timely and timely initiative of Senator Latorre, who, together with the Presidents of the two Chambers, has remedyed that authentic forcing for which an important Opposition Group, that of Forza Italia, was deprived of participating in the parliamentary control body on secret services. He is sorry that his colleagues in the 5 Star Movement still do not understand what was a democratic emergency. A very important issue, which has become with the time no longer tolerable, when our country finds itself committed to facing serious and dangerous pitfalls through the work of our armed forces and the non-secondary one of our security services. Therefore, we welcome the sensitivity of Senator Latorre and the work of Parliament which, in a delicate geopolitical juncture, is able to build a climate that offers our military engaged abroad the pleasant perception of a united country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u56	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, I will be brief in the Group of the Party of European Socialists' explanation of vote in favour of the draft law under consideration, but stressing the importance of this moment, because in the everyday life of the political debate and even perhaps with respect to some formal deficiencies that have occurred even this morning in the discussion within the Commissions, one risks forgetting that we are coming to port with a law that from five legislatures was expected and on which we were working. It was five legislatures that couldn't do it. We are approving a measure that sets the international missions within the framework of the international policy of our country as a fundamental part of this policy, consistent with the second paragraph of Article 11 of our Constitution, which sees Italy engaged in international bodies, in particular to give support and support to the United Nations in the interventions of stabilisation of crises; the missions, therefore, as part of the Italian foreign policy for the stabilisation of the crisis sectors. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have done as well as the Senate Commissions, which had already led to an excellent and comprehensive work in the penultimate draft. Some excessive specification risked to misunderstand the intentions inherent in the modifications made to the House; however we arrive in port with an absolutely important provision. This morning we celebrate something very significant: military missions are part of our country's foreign and international policy; through the missions we act to stabilise crisis situations within international bodies. I therefore announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u59	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u60	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u61	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law No 10-362-388-395-849-874-B, already approved by the Senate in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Senators Manconi and others, Casson and others, Barani, De Petris and De Cristofaro, Buccarella and others, Torrisi, and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u64	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am obliged to support Amendment No 1.4 as a result of a position that has been expressed by the rapporteurs in this House and has left us off the hook. Thanks to the intuition of President D'Ascola, we had achieved unanimity in the Commission; the word'reiterate' did not introduce it ourselves, but it was President D'Ascola who did it correctly. Some say it could be a continuous crime; no, it is the case to prevent every time anything happens from being entered in the register of investigated police forces. We are going to create a rule that must be such, of balance because in our country the only inscription determines a series of consequences from the psychological point of view, of concern on the part of the subjects. I recall the view that we had to introduce a torture offence that was balanced with regard to interests in the field; at the beginning I made an invitation to withdraw all the amendments and to leave only some of the amendments tabled by the rapporteurs. I therefore wonder why we should continue with a view that has suddenly appeared in this House, expressing our support for an amendment by our colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, who also voted in the Commission for the text that had been adopted there. I wonder, then, whether it is really necessary to continue with a logic that leads to a text that has a general balance. We voted together, not only in the Commission, but also in the previous reading. If you go to read this new text, you will find that it has something different and a greater chance of being approved. When it comes to a verifiable psychic trauma, it is clear that everything is based on the text voted by the Commission and one cannot be removed and left with another. If you are going to do such an operation, you will lead me to support Mr Gasparri's amendment, which, when you remove the reiterate, rebalances the text from another point of view. Should we continue in this debate? I also addressed the Democratic Party's leader in the Justice Commission to represent the need for clear and precise reflection. The Forza Italia Group, withdrawing all the amendments and maintaining the rapporteur's amendment on the appropriate attempt, fully agrees to vote on the text. If you want to discuss this, I am sorry, but we will have to debate every amendment to describe what we intend to achieve. [[Applause from Senator Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u67	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to take the floor only to take account of the changes which have been introduced and which we have considered right to ascertain. Senator Caliendo tells the truth and it was not possible to think otherwise. I take responsibility for having introduced that reiterate. Nevertheless, I believe it is a manifestation of humility but also of willingness to hear reasons contrary to your initial opinions and to have re-evaluated this regulatory environment. It has been re-evaluated in the light of what I had already allowed myself to say, but I think it is useful to remember. The word "reiterate" does not introduce the risk of a continuous crime (because, if the tortures are more than one, obviously the continued crime is applicable), but of a habitual crime, which is different, that is that for the typicality of the conduct it is necessary to repeat, perhaps in different times, therefore on different days, the same conduct of torture, obviously determining such a rarefaction of the norm to obtain its inapplicability. Certainly Senator Caliendo is right in saying what he says, because he reflects the truth of things; but he also reflects the truth of things that the text originally agreed on, that is, what the Senate Justice Commission and the Assembly had already voted by a very large majority, the word "reiterate" was not even there, as - I must say the truth - there is not in Amendment 1.4, which does not even record the requirement of recurrence. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] We have considered protecting the Forces of Order, as it is right to do; for this reason I thought to say to the beginning that this is a balanced rule, which takes into account the need to protect people who are the target of violent and offensive conduct, but also of course the Forces of Order, for example by accepting that amendment which wants torture to involve an initial nucleus of illice. In fact, the official who keeps himself in the perimeter of the powers and in respect of the duties connected to the function, that is to say to the service if it is in charge of a public service, has nothing to fear. The plural expression "violence and serious threats" implies that torture can never be considered to exist if there is only one act. The acts must be multiple, therefore not only one, but the recurrence would lead to that risk of believing that habitual crime, such as the abuse in the family just to make an example that grasps the idea. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). For the purposes of judgment it is no doubt. Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. I can't answer that, because I should stop and it's not possible to do that right now. The sense of this intervention is, precisely, what I had already anticipated and what for clarity, but also for expression of humility, we felt we had to clarify. I repeat that to be convinced of the accuracy of the opposite views means to follow Parliament's work and to show respect for the parliamentary institution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u70	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I believe that there is one difficult thing in Italy: to agree with all the police unions, which as you know are numerous, in supporting a thesis. Who has read the communiques of all the unions of Police has found that they have reported that with the norm in question Police, Carabinieri, Guardia of finance, Forces of the order will no longer be able to exercise their duty to defend the citizens, because the norm cited, that speaks of torture, in reality - as I have had to say the last time - defines torture serious threats that provoke a verifiable psychic trauma, but the serious threats that cause a psychic trauma are already torture. My colleague, Mr D'Ascola, also claims to expunge the word'reiterate', but I do not understand why. The Criminal Court, Section III, on 23 May 2014, with sentence No. 45648, on the offence of stalking, where the word "reiterate" is provided, stated that two episodes of stalking on the same woman by the same subject are enough to prove the offence repeated on the same person. It is clear that if we say "reiterate threats" it is not enough a threat to call it torture. But, ladies and gentlemen, do you realize that in this House it has been repeatedly said that the case of Grapes, the Magherini case and the Aldrovandi case are cases of torture? Last time I said that you are either in perfect bad faith or ignorance makes you talk. Let's put the case of Magherini yesterday: did you read what had happened in Florence? It was a person who was delirious with cocaine - written yesterday in a sentence - who for an hour had combined all kinds of cocaine, pulling a taxi driver out of the taxi and assaulting women inside the shops, until people, rightly exasperated by this violence, called the policemen who immobilized him. What did yesterday's sentence say? That you were beaten by the carabinieri? Absolutely not. That death was caused by cocaine delusion that, as is known, when the effect ends, of course (as all drug addicts have written) can cause death? Sure, they wrote this. But they gave seven months to the Carabinieri because, at a time when - as Preiti in front of Palazzo Chigi - they kept him on the ground and put the handcuffs on him, they should have predicted that he could have had a heart attack, if the cocaine had caused him a physical collapse. I do not discuss the sentence (seven months) and we will see on appeal, but here it has been said that this is a case of torture, that those three carabinieri had to take life; it was said by the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement. Manslaughterous incidents have been cited, where there may have been negligence or malpractice in intervening in defence of citizens, mistaken for arsonist attitudes. So those carabinieri who stopped Preiti in front of Palazzo Chigi, if that gentleman who shot the carabiniere and who was then immobilized had died, you think they had to have life, because that according to you is torture. And you wrote it here that it's torture. It is clear that when one thinks of torture and reads international standards, one refers to the case where a person is taken by the authorities or by a private individual and is tortured to extort confessions and make them say something he does not want to say. Of course the Regeni case is a case of torture. But when we read that some prosecutor says that the Regeni case would be like the Cucchi case, are we going crazy? Are you kidding me? What are we doing? Do we want this for the citizens who are attacked by the violent, like the one who gave the hammer to the citizens in Turin, or the one who raped a woman? But do you think when a violent man resists policemen and policemen how do they stop him? The alternative is perhaps to do as in the United States - God forbid and free from the United States police - that when a citizen is stopped, at the first move he makes, they shoot him? And they don't go to trial, because they say they stopped him, made a reaction movement and killed him. God forbid and free us from that conception of the Forces of Order. What do Italian police and policemen do when they have to stop a violent man? They have to stop him by force, risking them, ending up in the hospital or killed many times. And we introduce a rule that automatically, in all those cases, allows a complaint, including 'ndrangheta, camorra and mafia. Why do you think a 'ndranghetista, a stopped camorrista, perhaps, after a violent struggle will not immediately say that he has suffered threats from the agents and that these have caused him a serious psychic disturbance? Mr D'Ascola says that at the trial, psychiatrists and experts will determine whether or not the psychic trauma really exists; but we automatically paralyze every possibility of intervention by the Forces of Order. Prejudicially we have already established that, however and always, in the moment when happens an episode in which the stop has trauma or unfortunately, as it can happen, even for totally foreign reasons (just read the experts of the toxicologists in the case of Florence or in other cases, unfortunately, of people who come out of the delusion from cocaine and who die spontaneously, even if nobody touches them: they are recognized syndromes), dies, if the episode happens at the same time as the intervention of the Forces of the order... [[Comments from PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups. Call the president back.]] I understand the hatred for the Police and the Carabinieri that animates some Groups and some interventions, but not [[. (Live comments from the PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups]] That's what you're doing. [[Recalls of the President]] Go and read the speeches of all the police unions who, black and white, write this. When the heads of law enforcement came to the Commission, they stressed these concerns. You want to be on the side of the criminals and the Camorists. [[? (Protests from PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups)]] Yes, it is, with this rule. [[Comments from PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups.]] Somebody get up and explain to me why a threat is torture. Someone explains to me why, when you write - and we will see it with the next amendments - that even if the crime is not committed, if one instigates and the crime is not committed, it is torture. [[Comments from PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups.]] Mr President, I have already said this: we are not in 1925 in the Fascist House, where we were prevented from speaking; we are in the Italian Parliament. [[Comments from PD, Mixed-SI-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u71	Colleagues, if anyone disagrees with Senator Giovanardi's words, ask for the floor and answer on the merits.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u72	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). I understand the sense of shame of those who are about to vote on such rules because they have no arguments. Do not answer to me, but to the tens of thousands of policemen, policemen and financiers who are on the road every day and intervene putting their safety at risk and risk ruining their lives and their families. You give an answer to them, instead of giving an answer to an ideological view of things. The amendments seek, at least, to return to the balance reached in the Commission. I will not vote for this rule. Senator Caliendo says that the agreed text would vote for it, but, for the umpteenth time, a political agreement has led to a change in the text approved in the Commission in this House. The Commission has voted on one text and there is another one agreed with the 5 Star Movement in this House. But does this sound serious to you when it comes to public order? I will vote with conviction for all the amendments that will try to bring this text back to torture and not for something different that you want to insert to penalise and humiliate the Forces of Order.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u75	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to remind you of your vigilance over the respect of the Rules of Procedure because, without prejudice to the obvious freedom of speech and speech of any senator, any statement cannot turn into yet another general debate. I think that this House does not deserve this mistreatment by some Members. [[Senator Giovanardi's protests.]] [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups]] Please ensure that the Rules of Procedure are observed. Whoever intervenes, do it. He will vote on the amendment. Given that we are only at the beginning of the vote on the amendments, if we allow this to happen, I fear that our work will not benefit from it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u76	Senator Buccarella, each senator has the right to make his own explanation of vote for ten minutes. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] If the arguments are out of the question, it will be my duty to call the senator and take his word off. It is not up to me to judge the motivation we are talking about, whether it is to be shared or not. It is part of the issues we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u79	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to explain the reasons why we are voting against Amendment 1.4. Our vote is against because we believe that the central point of the issue lies in the term "reiterate". President D'Ascola's arguments regarding the qualification of the fact - and the term "reiterate" is more correctly described as a conduct - are undoubtedly acceptable. That "reiterate" is not to be interpreted as a sort of continuous crime, but as a series of acts which, as a whole, can be the criminal hypothesis. The amendment of Senators Gasparri and Malan eliminates the term "reiterate". Therefore, if we say that we are against the amendment of Senator Buccarella, who has deleted the term'reiterate', we cannot agree with amendment 1.4 which, like that of the 5 Star Movement, expunges the term'reiterate' from the provision. For us that term is essential, because we risk having forces of order intimidated. It is a crime of particular delicacy and deserves a specification. It must be well-detailed by the legislator. The conduct must be precise and precise: it cannot be left to the interpretation of the jurisprudence that will be formed on this text. For us the term "reiterate" is important, because it qualifies in a more specific way the conduct that must be sanctioned. The amendment does not provide for this deadline, and for these reasons we shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u82	Mr Buemi, rapporteur. Mr President, my fellow Members do not have it wrong: they know that I am not afraid of taking positions even a little out of conformity and belonging, but with regard to amendment 1.4, I believe that the amending action has already been taken by my colleagues Gasparri and Malan, because the concept of recurrence is not present in their text. Therefore, precisely by accepting the concerns of colleagues not to jeopardise the action of the official in relation to forceful interpretations, we have accepted Mr Di Maggio's amendment, which sets out this concept. It's a little lapalissian, because to foresee in a norm something that already exists in the current order is redundant, but we did it just to reassure the Forces of Order. Therefore, those who act in the legitimacy of the norm, under the mandate of the magistrate, even using force, because in that case it is necessary, must fear nothing. We have tried to recover the concern of a forceful interpretation by the judiciary of limiting behavior, including through an amendment, which I personally do not believe was necessary to accept, because this rule already exists in the existing law. We have done so, however, to reassure those who, every day, are called upon to address these issues, certainly of great delicacy. I would simply like to remind my colleagues who have proposed this amendment, for which we have asked them to withdraw, to reflect on the fact that this concept has been abandoned in their amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u85	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business, if you will allow me. We left the debate on this issue last week, with a dispute between the procedure and the politician in the middle. We did so, saying that, perhaps, on a subject such as this we should and could find a point of convergence, having jumped into the Commission of merit - as was confirmed earlier by President D'Ascola - an agreement that found a link between the text and the proposals of the senators of the Commission. I appeal to everyone, to the leaders of the groups and in particular to those of the majority, because I believe that there is a need for convergence and unanimity within this House on this issue. In fact, it is one of those themes for which there is a need to find the maximum support, without falling into slips that, as this session is demonstrating, do not find a solution. I would therefore like to say the following. The President of the Commission, Mr D'Ascola, admitted, or rather, confirmed - "Ammissione" is a bad expression - that, in the process of the draft law, a different wording was found in the passage from the Commission to the Assembly. Let me use a word, Mr President, which is now in the vocabulary of the Italian language and therefore I am not saying a bad word: I don't like "super cocks." At last sitting, the President of the Commission was asked why he had changed his mind. Senator Buemi, please listen to me: have at least respect for the opposition, since very often he is a philosopher in here [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The President of the Commission, therefore, has been asked more than once to explain: do not simply tell us that he was convinced by common sense, also because they know him as an extremely serious person of great intellectual freedom. I would therefore like to understand where the order came from to change what had been decided in the Commission. Tell me clearly: was it the government, Commissioner Lumia, or anyone else? Who did you take the order from? Tell us, then we'll all adjust. I therefore appeal to the Leader of the Democratic Party to be an active and prompt member - it seems to me that he is already doing so, since he is examining the amendment - to find a solution that will allow all senators to vote peacefully on a measure concerning torture; let the super cocks be lost. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u88	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business after the speech by my colleague from the 5 Star Movement, and I think it is useful and necessary to reiterate what you have already said. There is a problem of compatibility with the matter, but at the moment when this problem is resolved in this House, any senator, regardless of whether he is in the majority or in opposition at that time, must be free to express himself with his own style, which may not be mine, but - I repeat - his own. This is the core principle of a free Parliament that works. You cannot give the floor to a senator just to associate, as also has been said by those benches. I think this is something that is not good for our institution. If you allow me only one joke on the substance, what Senator Giovanardi has said is entirely questionable, except for one passage, because it is a fact that all the police unions have expressed doubts about the specific point of the measure that we are discussing. This, ladies and gentlemen, is something that should make everyone think, because if the perplexity comes from a sector, it is sectoral, while if it is generalized it means that it goes beyond the approaches that the different trade union acronyms have on the subject. Since, even very recently, we found ourselves in this House to have a point of sharing when we all applauded the work of the Forces of Order (repeat: we have done so unanimously, without any distinction of political position or occupation of the posts in the Chamber), in the face of a manifestation of unanimous perplexity we would have the obligation of an additional moment of reflection in order to try to achieve the same unanimity that, at difficult times in the country, we are able to express.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u91	Mr Manconi (PD). Mr President, senators and senators, I would like to make a first point, which I think is important. I am among the very few senators in this House who have assiduous, constant, frequent, open discussion, frank discussion and constant relationship with many police unions. Therefore, I am well aware of doubts and doubts that come from those organizations and I think that what has been said before corresponds to a tiring and often painful debate within those same organizations. The matter is in fact very delicate, sometimes incandescent, and - therefore - produces heated comparison and also acute lacerations. However, we are very far from having a unique attitude on the part of those associations that are most representative on this subject. Therefore, a joint declaration does not correspond to a unity of attitude; on the contrary. It is enough to have the patience to listen to those unions, to speak with them and to have the close confrontation I have had for many years, to understand that attitudes are extremely articulated, also on the delicate subject of the crime of torture and the different articulations of this legislation, as well as on the issues related to this or that amendment. Then I raise a question. The President, in reply to a colleague, said that everyone had time to intervene and that it was then for the President to assess the compliance of the intervention with the matter and its compatibility with what was said. I therefore ask the President to consider carefully and with due respect, which is precisely the relations existing within this House and also the attention to the style of everyone (as Senator Quagliariello requested), whether the interventions of the very nice and brilliant Senator Giovanardi are compatible with the matter, at the time when any of his speeches takes this or that amendment as a pretext to express his views on people who have been the victims of serious news events. Following his speeches, we have had, in the months, days and hours before, a detailed list of persons with regard to whom there are investigations by the judiciary in progress or judgments of the judiciary already issued or judgments still to be issued. For all these events the very nice and brilliant Senator Giovanardi expresses his opinion [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] , essentially denigrating the figure of the victims and, with an exemplary manifestation of Christian pietas, treating these victims as if they were all indiscriminately criminal [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and Mixed-SI-SEL groups]] , speaking of them as enemies of the State and like those who, at the end of the day, have sought it. This applies even to the last episode mentioned this morning, that of Riccardo Magherini, for which happened what Senator Giovanardi said, failing however to remember that for that story, happened in March 2014 in Florence, yesterday three carabinieri were sentenced for manslaughter. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups]] GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). I said it! Mr Manconi (PD). This will, of course, be re-examined. Since there are guarantees here all round and you guarantee hairy, and since I guarantee on all matters and unconditionally, I respect and approve the sentence of the judiciary, but I know that it is not a final condemnation; I therefore await the judgment of second degree and judgment in cassation. But in the meantime the fact remains that Riccardo Magherini, described in those brutal words by Senator Giovanardi, yesterday, in a court of our Republic, was considered the victim of a manslaughter by three members of the Carabinieri Arm. Three and only three, be clear. The condemnation of these three carabinieri in first instance, in my opinion, does not in any way undermine the honour of the weapon, does not in any way offend their uniform, but rather it is very useful to say that, if there are three carabinieri responsible for manslaughter against Riccardo Magherini, there are hundreds of carabinieri who are not responsible for lawlessness or manslaughter. A little balance, please, senators. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE, Mixed-SI-SEL and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u94	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first, Senator Buccarella, by censoring, is not understood by what reasons, Senator Giovanardi's speech, said that we must speak on the subject. You have already pointed out quite correctly, Mr President, that everyone, in the time available under the Rules of Procedure to explain the reasons why he shares an amendment, will use various arguments. Those used by Senator Giovanardi may or may not be shared, but they were all connected to matter. Then I say to Senator Buccarella, but with a constructive spirit, that it is only when you... [[Comments of Senator Buccarella]] Let me tell you mine.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u95	Senator Gasparri, speak to the President, who is this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u96	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). But I also wanted Senator Buccarella's permission to express my opinion, so I feel comforted in my freedom. I was saying, Senator Buccarella, that his group often says: "Citizens who listen to us out of here." It's a practice, it's a way. Parliamentary work is broadcast by radio, television and channels. I do not know how many follow them, but it is good that citizens can follow them. There are citizens, police unions and police forces with whom Senator Manconi claims to have relations. I, too, am well-known, have contacts and relationships, perhaps more welcome than those of Mr Manconi, with these organizations. You obviously have the right to have all the contacts, but you may have few shares. I do not go into the substance of the judgments and I do not want to reopen some of the issues. By the way, false things have been said. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, I remind you that you asked to speak on the order of business. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). For example, it has been said that Senator Giovanardi is very young: it is a false thing. I don't know if it's very nice and brilliant, this is questionable, but very young certainly isn't. With regard to the order of business, I would like to make a point about what Senator Falanga said earlier, who, in justifying his vote against my amendment 1.4, said that it does not contain the word "reiterate". He is right, several amendments are tabled, and I am for the word "reiterate", but I say to Senator Falanga, to myself and to the police who listen to us and who do not share this provision regarding the issue of injuries, aggressions, violence that the Florence judgment or the judgments on the facts of Genoa have been there without the measure that we are examining. So if a law enforcement officer is responsible for manslaughter, injury, or anything else, there are laws for that. It is not that without the measure under consideration you can take a person to the police station or to the police station and you can punch her: you can not do it. There are much better lawyers here than I, starting with President D'Ascola. Senator Falanga said that the word "reiterate" is missing, but I invite Senator Falanga to reflect on the second part of the amendment, where it says: The fact is not punishable if suffering or suffering is inflicted as a result of conduct or legitimate penalties linked to them or by the same causes. Why did I propose this formula again? Because you have suppressed in the Commission what the House had inserted. Let me give you an example... No, Senator Gasparri. The order of business is one thing, the merit of the amendments is another. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I'm almost done, Mr. President. Give me another 30 seconds. I want to prevent that if an exponent of the Forces of the Order goes to arrest a camorrist in the neighborhood of a city and the relatives stand in the way, the policeman, who to execute the arrest order gives him a push (and it is good, having to arrest a fugitive of the camorra), is then denounced by the relative of the camorrist as torturer. This law also helps camorra, as well as mortifying police forces. [[Applause from Senators Mandelli and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u97	I would tend to rule out the fact that this has something to do with the order of business. Colleagues, I had hoped that in a week there would be some reflection on the subject, but I see that we stayed at the same point as last week. I therefore hope for a political solution. Otherwise, I think that the Leaders should reflect on what the alternatives might be; otherwise, in September or October, we will still be talking about this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u100	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the separate vote on Amendment No 1.4, which, being composed of two periods, comes to that end. In particular, the second period re-introduces what the House had introduced with regard to protection in the event of suffering caused by or suffering as a result of conduct or legitimate sanctions linked to them or the same causes. President D'Ascola is right, saying that he is also considered in the trial...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u101	Excuse me, Senator Malan, but the proposal for a split vote does not require a statement of reasons. You propose it, then if there is acceptance by the House, well. Otherwise, we shall vote on the whole amendment. [[Senator Russo's reporting.]] I see Senator Russo suggests he's against it. I put to the vote the request for a split vote on Amendment 1.4. It's not approved. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,202.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u104	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Amendment No 1,202 refers to the subject I mentioned earlier. The House had introduced a paragraph which reads as follows: For the purposes of applying the first and second subparagraphs, suffering must be further than that resulting from the execution of legitimate private or limited rights measures. The House had approved this paragraph, but in the Commission to the Senate this was suppressed within the framework of an agreement which, as has been said several times, was reached to balance the provision. This agreement provided for the inclusion of the term "reiterate" and other elements. Then, however, the rapporteur's opinion led us to consider that we were going in the opposite direction. For this reason, at this point, since the term "reiterate" has not been inserted, it would be appropriate to re-introduce this concept, which we propose here with other words and which protects the Forces of Order with respect to the sufferings and all the other definitions contained in the text, which are, however, linked, as a consequence, to legitimate sanctions connected with them or the same causes. President D'Ascola is right in saying that, in the course of the trial, the fact that certain actions are carried out by order in the performance of a duty is assessed, and therefore the element is already present. Of course, in the course of the trial the fact is assessed, but it is very easy, sitting in Parliament or in a nice judicial office, to judge whether a policeman or a Carabiniere, in a public order action, perhaps the subject of launching objects, assaults and threats to his own safety, could have put in place those measures, which are the consequence and fulfillment of his duty, in such a way as to create a little less suffering. Or, when this policeman or carabiniere is being insulted, death threats may run away from him a word too much. 11:14 a.m. (Malan followed). However, since it acts in a certain context, we run the very high risk that, even considering the very aspect of the performance of duty and public functions, this policeman or this policeman may be condemned. And let us bear in mind that we are also talking about circumstances in which the said agent intervenes to protect the safety of others and in situations where he endangers his safety. At that point, there is a serious risk that the reasoning about who makes him do it will exceed. Who makes him face a physical attack, with the launch of objects by hostile people, if, in the immediate future, he risks his own personal safety? And we know how many policemen and policemen have died in the protection of public order. Secondly, one might ask who will make him face a trial that, at best, means months and months (if not probably years) of pillage, suspension from service with the obligation to pay the lawyer. Because that's what happens. As a result, what happens? Is there anything to do with that surgery? All right, I do, but let's say I don't run too fast to be sufficiently timely and effective in my speech. I run a little slower, I give myself a little less and maybe an innocent remains in the hands of the criminal, because the policeman or the policeman, dissuade from the rules that are passing here, all in all, does not want to be the hero who takes the sanction, because then it does not pass as a hero, but for the torturer, because the crime is called torture, it is not called excessive zeal in the protection of public order. We are talking about this and, unfortunately, as happens and not for the first time on this measure, they are confused and equated, like those to which I have referred, with that behaviour absolutely hateful, reprehensible and to be punished with severe sanctions that is the actual torture. Unfortunately, however, such vague and broad denominations are necessarily subject to the discretion of the judge. The question is not whether it is a good or a bad judge; whether we submit to his judgment definitions in which the criminal, heinous, sadistic torturer enters and, in the same case, is understood the policeman who is doing his duty and who may cause some suffering too much, because he had the heavy hand (when others - other than heavy hand - are threatening his life!), there is a serious problem and therefore the need to adopt amendment 1,202. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u107	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I rise in an explanation of vote, announcing that we are voting against Amendment 1,202, in particular with regard to point (b), which seeks to include, after the second paragraph, the clarification indicating the possibility of causing physical suffering resulting from legitimate sanctions. I do not think there are any ways of sanctioning people who are expected to do violence or to bring physical suffering to someone. I believe that this cannot be the consequence of a sanction, if anything a contingent fact, but written in this way, in my opinion, creates even more confusion than the presenter's understanding. I would also like to speak honestly on the order of business, especially those who preceded the Presidency. Perhaps it would be better to think of harmonization and the timing of certain times in order to arrive at the conclusion of the examination and the vote of this measure. It is a long-awaited measure, a text that has made the shuttle between the two rooms several times. I believe that we need to come to a point and not allow us to make statements on the order of business or in an explanation of vote which will be removed from the subject of the statement. We've heard someone accuse the 5 Star Movement Group of hating the Forces of Order before. I, who are very critical of them, do not think that we can get through that. We have been accused of voting shamefully, one way or another. I don't know if anyone vows such things with shame, but I hope they don't do it with us. So, in order to avoid - and I hope that my intervention does not lead to this - further exacerbating my feelings, I believe that mine should reasonably be regarded as an invitation to harmonise the times. I believe that the debate that took place in the three parliamentary passages, in the Chambers and in the Commissions, has been exhausted and we can get to the point where democracy is concerned, that is to say the vote: those who have the numbers to reject a measure do so and those who have the votes to approve it must be able to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u110	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, thankfully - and I also say this to the police unions - there is a shorthand report on what we are saying. I said about Florence that those responsible were sentenced to seven months and eight months, that I agree with the sentence and that there were no beatings. Five minutes later, Senator Manconi accused me of not saying the things that are on the report. Therefore, they are continuous mystifications of the reasoning carried out by those who intervene. I didn't go to Florence to affect the trial of Attorney Anselmo. It was Senator Manconi who gave press conferences in Florence. All I say is, respecting all the sentences, that when convictions for manslaughter intervene, I take note of it, but it is different when the accused are acquitted. Let's think about the Uva case, the ones who posted the photos of the subjects involved, giving them murderers, therefore addressing insults to them, to their families, to their children. Well, the murderers have been acquitted. The three custody agents of the Cucchi case have been acquitted, and again this Assembly, as well as the President of the Emilia Region, has cited them as criminals. But, then, when the police are convicted, they are guilty; when they are acquitted, they are guilty of the same, even of torture because in all this debate, dear Senator Manconi, the cases he mentioned are also cases of persons acquitted not only by the judiciary but also by the investigations carried out by the Senate with a commission of inquiry presided over by the then Senator Marino. Read what Senator Albertina Soliani's PD report says. I agree with that, but here there is an ideological overlap on the basis of which the existence of prejudice is evident. Explain to me why, after a subject spends three or four years of his life under trial and is acquitted, rather than being content because it means that he has behaved well, that he has done nothing wrong, that he has done his duty, continues to criminalise him. It is even said - let's see Professor Di Caesar's statements on the "Corriere della Sera" - that the defendants were acquitted or sentenced only for manslaughter, because there is no crime of torture. Therefore, either a subject is acquitted or he is charged with a manslaughter offence; but if there had been torture they would have given him life for an arsonous crime. These are mystifications that I do not do, but you who keep saying these things in this House. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] It is clear that a police unionist, when he hears cases where the police and the police involved have been acquitted because they had nothing to do with it and he hears that they have to end up in prison anyway, and their photos appear on the media as murderers, he starts to worry about what we are doing or are doing. The written amendments to amend the text of the measure, including this amending proposal, face an ideological and media campaign led by lawyer Anselmo. Attorney Anselmo, it was Giovanardi who said in the interviews that I won the trials in the media, didn't I win them in the courtrooms? You're forgetting that attorney Anselmo didn't say these things, I'm saying television. Why waste time in court, lawyers? He said that he influences public opinion, wrote it and boasts about it; in fact, you find it in all these trials. So, do I not have to be concerned as a parliamentarians about a justice that is publicly influenced by people who boast of building it through lies, and many times through slander? Let's think about the Uva case: four prosecutors, three before the trial, propose the acquittal because the defendants have nothing to do with it; then the forced indictment is made; then the prosecutor of the case, two months ago, again proposes the acquittal because they have nothing to do with it. They are acquitted and I still have to see written and heard in Parliament say that they are murderers and I must not be indignant about these things? Isn't there hate? Excuse me, if carabinieri and cops acquitted or convicted are always guilty, what is this? Isn't that prejudice to them? I accept the sentences, but for what is written: if we speak of negligence and imprudence, they have made a mistake; if it is a will, as with the Savi brothers, it is right that they stay in jail for seven life sentences, because they have committed arson. If, however, we confuse torture with something that has nothing to do with it, it is clear that we are making a very serious mistake.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u113	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all, I say to Senator Giovanardi - without any harm - that if he spoke a little more slowly, it would be less difficult even for the stenographer. You see, Mr President, I am very surprised at the request of Senator Orellana, who even wants the quota of the times, when it is quite clear that there is a delaying tactic of the current times, because some majority group leaders and some opposition leaders have separated themselves with the rapporteur to clearly find a square on an amendment that would otherwise be difficult to digest. It is a legitimate, correct parliamentary dynamic, but it would be better if it were done in the Commission, or at least if there were a circumstance that would allow all parties to participate in this dynamic. I believe, Mr President, that the need to restore serenity in the management of this measure is not lacking in your attention, because even the terms that stem from the debate on the amendments say that there is a risk of falling into hypocrisy every time or declarations that are at least far from reality. I therefore call for the sitting to be suspended and for the decision to be postponed and for the Heads of Group or, in any case, the Groups to be considered in such a way that we can find a framework which will allow us to return to the Chamber and proceed swiftly by defining what to do with this measure, without continuing to stop and go and - I repeat - without conciliatory solutions outside the door of the House, which keep the rest of the senators in the dark about what is happening with regard to the measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u114	Mr President, I believe that Amendment No 1,202 also deserves a split vote. I therefore call for the two parts to be voted separately, the second of which would be that relating to point (b), where it is proposed to include the paragraph which reads: The offence does not exist where physical or mental suffering results solely from legitimate sanctions, are inherent in or caused by them. Well, this second part seems to me to be shared by the whole of this House. If suffering is not caused by beatings or anything else on the part of anyone, but is the direct cause of the legitimate sanction, for example the arrest, I wonder how the exclusion of the criminal hypothesis in this case may not be shared by the Assembly. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to say that I do not appreciate who in a private conversation, in a conversation or in an institutional debate such as this speaks in harsh tones, entrusting their language also to adjectives that adhere to the characteristics of the person to whom they respond, and then what do they do? He goes away and does not wait for others to give him answers in order to his claims. I very much respect Senator Manconi, but he has respect and does not leave the Chamber when others speak, giving answers to his speech. Mr Manconi (PD). Here I am!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u115	Senator Manconi points out his presence in the center of the hemicycle, visible by all. Is there any sharing in Senator Falanga's request to vote for separate parts of Amendment 1,202?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u118	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I do not agree with you, and I would ask you to check the quorum if you want to proceed to the vote. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u119	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of the draft law No 10-362-388-395-849-874-B PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on Amendment 1,202. It's not approved. I call on Senator Gasparri and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,202. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,203.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u122	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to clarify this amendment because, as it is written, it seems to me to give rise to a sentence that makes no sense. I wonder, in fact, what does the insertion of words mean: "gravi e" after the word: "anyone". I believe that this is a mistake in writing which I think it would be good to clarify. 11.35 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u125	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw the amendment because of a miswording.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u126	Amendment 1,203 has therefore been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,300 (text 2), which is identical to Amendment No 1,204.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u129	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I regret to speak in part with Senator Manconi, since I have always shared two lines with him: the first is to believe that higher penalties are not necessary to create deterrence, the second is that I do not believe in the use of force, for the principle set out in Article 2 of the Constitution. For the dignity of the human person, the use of force, even when it is legitimate, must be limited, however, an account is to say this and an account is to introduce a crime of torture, which is quite different. When we introduce the crime of torture, if a police officer should cause injury, he will be punished for those injuries also being contemplated the crime of torture, as well as when he should cause a injury from which the manslaughter comes, he will be punished for the manslaughter also having been placed in the order the crime of torture. We must therefore realize that the House had introduced a much stronger justification than the legitimate use of force. Read it, you can all do it, because before you vote on this amendment, I would ask you to know what the consequences are. The House, where you also have an overwhelming majority, had raised the question of how to avoid the possibility that the actions of the police forces were conditioned by the fear of running into criminal proceedings: not a criminal procedure by which to be condemned, but by the fact that it is registered. The House had then written that for the purposes of the application the suffering must be further than that resulting from the execution of legitimate private or limited rights measures. I do not know if you realize that we are beyond what is proposed by the same amendment as Senator Di Maggio, which I also agree with, when he says that there is a violation of functions or abuse of the law. As far as the text approved by the House was concerned, there was a further limitation. In the Commission, the statement by President D'Ascola to insert the word "reiterate" convinced us - I repeat: all - to delete this paragraph approved by the Chamber, because the "reiterate" removed all doubts and gave the possibility that the police force was not concerned. This does not mean that, on the other hand, if there were wrong actions, they would have to be affected, judged, identified and condemned. This is the reason why the reiterate was to be placed and the last paragraph removed. Now, according to the opinions of the rapporteurs, we will most likely be voting in favour of Senator Di Maggio's amendment in order to rebalance the lack of reiterate. Do you realize that we are dealing with a matter of balance? I would therefore ask you for very strong attention: it is not a matter of corporate defence of interests, there is no political position that should not be shared. I repeat: my position starts from that of Senator Manconi, as a concept and as a decision, but where do we arrive? What's the result? I want the police force that commits a simple injury to be punished and condemned for injury; if it commits the hypotheses that are configured in this text, it must be condemned for torture. That's why, then, it's wrong to remove that reiterate. Think about it. It is not true that the insertion of the "reiterate" implies a continuous crime, it means three times, a threat and three punches. This is the "reiterate" and falls into the present case and is a criminal case. You can't play on these things. You want to get rid of him, I don't know what it's about. I am telling you honestly: I have not been able to understand the reason why to delete the word'reiterate' proposed by one of the rapporteurs, Mr D'Ascola, and voted by all of us. What's the reason? I very much appreciate the fact that not the whole Democratic Party has tabled amendments. I really appreciate the others sticking to that rule. What is the reason, then, why today I should return to a text - beware - of contradiction? In fact, the exception would be introduced so that, if the policeman has committed abuse of the powers or has caused some incorrect situations from a point of view of his duties, in that case it is not punishable. Do you realize that it was much more correct to say "reiterate"? We must not affect convictions, because those responsible must be condemned, but we must be careful not to create alarmism in the police forces, we must be careful not to create a situation of concern to be entered in the register of suspects. That is the reason why I call upon you and even Mr Di Maggio to withdraw his amendment, if it is retained, because this would mean giving a greater balance to the whole system from a technical and legal point of view. You have counselors, President Zanda, professors of criminal law: ask them if it is correct what I am saying or not. [[Senator Zanda's comments.]] President Zanda, that is not the case, because it is not the same as talking about abuse of powers in the exercise of functions because even if we do not write it, there is already in our system. I would never condemn anyone for that. Go read and inform your experts and consultants if it's correct what I said. You have criminal law professionals like Mr Cucca and others: ask what is the reason. I have not yet understood whether the logic is only that of belonging and struggle on the basis of I do not know which principle. Do we have to hit the torture? Of course I do. Do we have to condemn who commits these facts? Of course I do. Should we prevent police forces from being blocked by concern? Of course I do. There is a balance between these two statements which had been achieved in the Commission. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u132	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I will adhere strictly to the rule. After the term "reiterate" has been removed, what happens? That anyone with violence causes acute physical suffering or a verifiable psychic trauma takes thirteen years in prison; if he is an officer from five to twelve; if there is death, the penalty is life imprisonment. I return to the episode of Preiti and to the policemen who, in front of Palazzo Chigi, after Preiti shot a colleague, jumped on him, locking him on the floor on supino cuffing him behind his back. Preiti complained and shouted because the position was clearly uncomfortable. On the basis of the rule thus written and removed the term "reiterate", if the lord who shot the carabiniere had died, who intervened, according to who wrote this rule, must take life because his is torture: he is one who violently subdues a person under his control to a situation that leads him to death. Then there's Dr. Thiene, counselor, who says that it may happen that a person in that position can get to death. Then give me an answer: I say that it is a legitimate behavior that of the police that stop and block a person, a violent, a murderer, a rapist, an addict that is causing damage to the people or one that gives hammers to the people, as happened in Turin; I note instead that in all these cases, according to the written rule, it is torture. Just read it. The term "reiterate" was used to say that the carabinieri who blocked the killer potential do not fall under the hypothesis of repeated conduct, because they simply blocked it; removed the term "reiterate", whoever violently causes psychic trauma or physical suffering inflicts torture. That's what you're writing. In all cases where there will be arrests of organized crime and there will be resistance or in all cases where police and carabinieri intervene to block a person who does not want to be blocked and therefore there is a struggle, when this rule comes into force, there will be for all of them a complaint and therefore a trial of years, a movement of headquarters, a trauma for the children, a media dog, the usual media circus that will turn throughout Italy to say that they are murderers. Is there a country in the world where a standard of this kind is introduced for the police and the carabinieri? If we reread the European norm, we realize that it does not say anything like that. In fact, in the Commission we said that if Europe asks, why not immediately introduce the European standard on torture? It is very clear what the European norm says: torture is the case of the Regeni case. That's right, it's very clear that it's a case of torture. What we are introducing is not torture, it becomes a sword of Damocles on cops and carabinieri. Of course, none of those who want to approve these amendments stand up and say whether what happened in front of Palazzo Chigi is legitimate or not. Personally, I think the Carabinieri were right not to shoot the potential killer who massacred a colleague, who did well to jump on him to immobilize him; I believe that we do very badly to pass a law that criminalises those behaviors and that, in Article 1, defines them as torture. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u133	Mr President, in the course of this debate, without prejudice, of course, to the legitimate convictions of the Senators, I would just like to say on behalf of the Government that there is no indication, on our part, in the opinion in favour of accepting this amendment, that it may in some way affect not only security but also the autonomy of the Forces of Order. It is a rule which clarifies, on the basis of an interpretation already provided here by the President of the Commission D'Ascola, what is the context within which the condition of torture occurs, which cannot be assimilated to a habitual crime. I will not list here concrete examples, which obviously belong to the discussion of individual senators, but it seems equally important to point out that this crime is foreseen under particular conditions of deprivation of liberty and therefore cannot take place within circumstances that see a conflict between the Forces of Order and those who might possibly react. This is a clarification which, moreover - and this is also very important from our point of view - achieves a balance on the basis of the different formulations that were subsequently indicated by the Assemblies and the Commissions, because the text that came from the Chamber of Deputies reported the noun \'threat to the singular, without the adjective "gravi". The point of balance, to which I do not subtract and which I think is desirable and desirable for the approval of a law that has long been awaited by our country and is urged not only by European contexts but also by high Courts of our country, is represented by the cancellation of the term "reiterate" with the maintenance of the term "threats" in the plural. It ensures that the effective prosecution of those who are guilty of this crime is balanced, guaranteed for those who perform the function of public officer, in the case of the aggravating circumstance, and certainly respectful of those who have suffered the torture and have not found, as the Cassation says and not as some commentators say, the crime of torture within the Italian penal code.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u136	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Migliore, for I believe that not avoiding the debate and confrontation is an important contribution to our work, especially when there are complex debates. I turn then to Senator Orellana, who called for the so-called guillotine or the quota of the times: we are talking about sensitive and important topics. Parliament does not work piecemeal and I am opposed to those statistics, which show how many votes we have taken and how many laws we have adopted. We are not a factory, which must produce a number of decisions; we must produce quality decisions. We complain that the laws are too many and then that we do not approve enough of them. Perhaps, at times, it would be better to spend some time suppressing the laws: President Calderoli, when he was in the government, has produced in visible performances of reduction of the legislation. The debate in this House stems from the complexity of the subject and also from the fact that there has been a change on a substantial point - I am referring to the intervention of the Undersecretary Best - by the rapporteurs. This is certainly not illegal, also because there is a double reading between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate (we will then see if it changes, if it changes the Constitution, however it will remain on many subjects even if it wins the yes, which is unlikely, and it will remain if it wins the no, but this is another story). Even the move from the Commission to the House does not provide for a text that is necessarily in conformity, otherwise what would be the use of it? I am therefore not shocked that the rapporteurs change their minds and delete the term'reiterate' and that the Undersecretary gives us an explanation: this is the legislative debate. I say this to my colleagues: even if it is noon on Thursday, it is not that we have to stamp the card and produce a number of laws. This is a delicate point: we are discussing - and I say this very calmly - the possibility of police and law enforcement intervention, when the use of force by the State is legitimate and what is the limit of such legitimate use. It is clear that if I and the Undersecretary Best wanted to stop a citizen and hold him back, we would not have this option, even if a common citizen could try to keep a snatchman on the street in the blackberries of police intervention. But our possibility is very limited, if not nonexistent and this is good, otherwise everyone would settle their accounts with those who are disliked, as if it were the sheriff of the city. The police force (then the Forces of Order and also the military who supervise San Luigi dei Francesi, the Palazzo di Giustizia in Piazza Cavour in Rome and in many other places in Italy) has greater powers of use of force. Public order is the main issue and I address my colleagues, especially the Senators of the 5 Star Movement, who are the promoters of this amendment that expunges the word "reiterate" from the text and has had the favourable opinion of the rapporteurs and the PD, changing the nature of the measure dismissed by the Commission. Undersecretary Migliore, torture is precisely in the concept of the recurrence of the act: a person is detained, beating himself and making a habitual use of the violence that continues over time with multiple acts. Without going into legal, philosophical or complex ethical discussions, this is torture. The subject of torture is very questionable. Undersecretary Migliore (I have already told him on a previous occasion and I come back to repeat it here), there has been a controversy about the regime of 41- bis and she has specified the terms of her position, that it was not to abolish it; instead Senator Manconi, who spoke before, is a critical acerrimo of the prison regime of 41-bis, but I do not imagine absolutely that, for this reason, it is promoter of thesis favorable to the mafia or to ours; he supports a critical point of view so that, in his position guaranteed to 360 degrees, he thinks - several times I have read his interventions in this sense - that even the measures of particular affliction that are applied to mafias and camorristi to prevent to drive the thighs from inside the prison, can sometimes represent an excess. Some have also spoken about it in terms of torture: the partition glass, the difficulty of contact with family members, the possibility of limited physicality in the relationship, the limits to phone calls, letters and so on. Is it torture? What is it? In my opinion, it is a fair sanction that the State has imposed. In the last parliamentary term, with a proposal for a law made by me and my colleague Vizzini, then shared by the Government and the Minister of Justice, the 41-a regime was tightened up because the judiciary had indicated to us that appeals to the supervisory judge often allowed the cancellation of the 41-a measures. From this came a controversy and the majority and the center-right government proposed a measure that - I think - was shared by 90% of the Assembly. I, who have a long parliamentary experience, worked many years ago in the House of Deputies to extend the 41- bis regime which was then still in term, while it is now stable, thanks to the Berlusconi governments. Before 2001 the 41-a regime was renewed by two years in two years and as a Member I worked to make it extend. For some, that regime is also torture. In my opinion, measures of particular severity against mobsters and camorrists are a fair punishment. It is in today's newspapers the controversy about Provenzano, who died in a hospital; he was ill, but nevertheless he was applied measures of particular severity. If the judiciary has decided to confirm them until the last of the days of one of the most heinous bosses of the thighs, it will have had its reasons, which I appreciate and share. Therefore, it is necessary to be careful because from a rule on torture in the end it is possible to consider all torture. I shall return to the subject of the debate. Undersecretary Migliore, you made specifics, but why did the House of Deputies reinstate the term "reiterate"? I share the appeal made by Senator Caliendo to Senator Di Maggio: Senator Di Maggio withdraws that amendment that serves only as a fig leaf insufficient to this measure that, I know, must result from the fulfillment of international treaties. However, I want to reassure those who listen to us from outside: in Italy violence is not allowed and the trials we are discussing this morning and I will not treat, like the recent ones in Florence or others, it has certainly not taken place because today in Italy there is the free will of the holder of the legitimate use of force, which takes a person, stops and arrests her. Sometimes tragedies happen at checkpoints: if someone doesn't stop, the reaction can also lead to deadly consequences, but it doesn't always result in a condemnation. "Stop or I shoot!" is a power of those who operate at a checkpoint and who we luckily do not have. Therefore, attention to public order and demonstrations, which often resulted in violence in Italy, in the destruction of shops or private vehicles, in the fire of cars and so on. For a few months in Italy there have been no such events, while in Paris the other evening during the European final. Fortunately, Europeans have not been harmed by terrorist events, but those who could not access the Eiffel Tower megascrews have set cars on fire. Now, I do not know French legislation in detail; but when a car fires and breaks down shops the police or the carabinieri make legitimate use of force, using the baton and other public order tools (it has been discussed many times about the use of hydrants to that end). I believe that this is legitimate. This measure, written badly, risks inhibiting a legitimate use of force, because the Forces of Order, faced with the risk of being tried, sent back to trial and entered in the register of suspects (as Senator Caliendo said), are restrained. In addition, the cost of defence will also have to be paid. I would like to ask my colleagues another question: if this measure is adopted and the possibility of prosecuting the police is extended, who will pay - I say this also to Senator Di Maggio, with reference to his amendment - the legal costs of all these policemen and policemen? They'll pay for it themselves. He said Renzi will renew their contract, but it has not yet been renewed. We hope that you will renew it, in addition to 80 euros, to allow them to pay for legal expenses, which will probably increase, because it will increase the chances of denunciation for alleged torture. I made first the example of the arrest of camorristi and mafias: how many times entire neighborhoods or municipalities have risen to prevent the arrest of a fugitive of 'ndrangheta or a fugitive camorrista? I don't know how these operations went, but if they've gotten people in and out of the camorrist and dropped a push on someone, is this torture or is it a legitimate use of force to arrest the fugitive? That is why the debate is continuing. Colleagues, I would not like, starting from a fair intent, to fight torture (who is ever in favour of torture?), make a ragazzonata norm, which then prevents greater force in guaranteeing public order and the fight against the thighs. The Zanda leader of these subjects is an ancient connoisseur, because, in his many lives, he has long followed the events of the police and security forces. I wanted to talk about it with calmness and without personal polemics; otherwise we come to raise so many issues and say that someone can't talk and someone else can't say. We need to talk, first of all because this is Parliament and then because we are discussing an important bill. When there are third-party trials, you will see the consequences, if the law is done wrong. I also say this to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, who, having made the choice to suppress the word "reiterate", will have more difficulty going to their deputy mayor of Neptune. We're gonna go and show him who's defending the police. Because life is long: you can have a momentary success, but we all have the right to illustrate the positions of each. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u139	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we also speak in an explanation of vote on these amendments. The situation that has arisen is very serious, not only because of the substance of this amendment and the substance of the draft law, but above all because of a question concerning the method. It is not possible - I repeat, it is not possible - to make a preparation in the Commission, where it is discussed and reflected on the introduction of the word "reiterate" in order to balance the content of a standard. I would remind you that it was the Commission that removed the engraving that had been launched by the House and said that, for the purposes of the application of the first and second paragraphs, suffering must be further than that resulting from the execution of legitimate private or limited rights measures. The word'reiterate' was necessary, because it was still a point of balance; by eliminating it, Mr Undersecretary, the point of balance is also eliminated. Let us look at the norm itself and think: this bill and specifically this norm, as you want to introduce it, where it provides for those degrading conducts for human dignity? Where are those assumptions concerning those particular forms of maltreatment and those degrading treatment assumptions inserted? Where's the torture crime? There is no difference between a behavior of violence or serious threat, because it provides nothing but a type of event, that is to say having caused physical suffering or psychic trauma. But I repeat the question, because here it seems that the Undersecretary also says that this rule does not affect the conduct of the Police: why did the Chief of Police Alessandro Pansa in audition to the Senate say, outside of institutional moderation, that this is a rule against the Police? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and Senator Rizzotti]] He said it, I don't say it; the police unions say it. I ask you: when you go to make an arrest, you are faced with an accommodating person who is willing to be handcuffed, or when you go to put the handcuffs is it easy to come across a violent course that can also cause physical suffering? It's too easy. This change in the norm does not change the content of a forecast that we do not share, but at least the word "reiterate" was used to balance a system. On the other hand, we are now faced with hypotheses that will eventually be read by the same Forces of Order as the rules adopted by this Parliament, with the agreement of the Government, to go against their actions or that will in any case create embarrassing situations. In fact, to open criminal proceedings or disciplinary proceedings against a member of the Forces of order means to ruin it, even if the latter after obtains absolution. It is not the word'reiterate', ladies and gentlemen, that can make your conscience settle and introduce a torture offence into our system. I wonder with surprise, also from the point of view of the method: why have you created this chaos in this House, as Senator Caliendo pointed out before? We would like to have the motivation why the word "reiterate" has been deleted: if you had not eliminated it, you would probably have had a large majority. [[Applause from Senator Crosio.]] I do not understand why you have managed to make it difficult with your own hands a bill that could have a certain kind of path. I don't understand it unless I think there's an intention here. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u142	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I will also be brief because it seems quite clear to me that there is a clear attempt at obstruction. Clearly, the adoption of this rule sees a part of Parliament as unfavorable, so I do not want to help with my speeches to make the debate even more complex. I have the impression that there is a point that escapes the debate that we are making. I do not know - and I also say this to Senator Stefani - the reasons that will lead this House to make one choice rather than another. I know, however, what the reasons have led me to propose, together with my Group, Amendment No 1,300, which we are debating, which deletes the word'reiterate'. We have tabled this amendment for a single, exclusive reason: we are trying to introduce a rule in order to implement an international convention in the legal order of our country, which dates back to 1984. And we think - for this reason, I repeat, we have tabled this amendment - that clearly the guiding criterion, when applying and implementing in our legal system a rule provided for in an international convention, must be that of the maximum conformity of our text with the text of the Convention itself. We believe that the amendments made to the text in the Commission, in particular on the deadline for recurrence and subsequently on the time limit for so-called psychic trauma, seriously undermine this point. In other words, they make the text, where it was approved as the Commission did, different from that provided for in the International Convention. That is why we have tabled this amendment. We would, of course, find it very wrong if Parliament, by adopting a rule different from that laid down in the Convention, gave an all-Italian interpretation. I say to my colleagues that all the countries of the world that have applied the Convention have spoken of torture exactly in terms that were discussed by the UN even in 1984. The anomaly of this Italian discussion is truly the demonstration of why in 2016 we are still discussing something decided in 1984. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u145	Mr Manconi (PD). Mr President, Senators and Senators, I am speaking to clear the field from a possible source of misunderstanding, even a heavy one, and to make it clear. I appreciated how Senator Gasparri put his criticism to the positions I expressed on the 41-a regime. It is important to point out that, beyond my personal positions, the mandatory reference is to a report on the application of the 41- bis regime of the Commission for the Protection of Human Rights which approved it by a large majority, with the opposing votes of the party to which Senator Gasparri belongs and of the 5 Star Movement. The survey work, which lasted over two years, went through visits to the wards of all prisons where the 41-a regime was applied and a long series of hearings. In the report, most highly appreciated, with even flattering words, by lawyers such as Gherardo Colombo and Giovanni Maria Flick, never, not once, are that system and regime assimilated to torture. There is never a single formula, a single word that can produce such a misunderstanding. The investigation that we carried out and that - I repeat - has experienced a long work and a long discussion, starts from the ratio of 41- bis that has, as its sole and exclusive end, to interrupt and not in any way allow the continuation of relations between the prisoners subject to 41-a and external crime. This is the purpose, the exclusive purpose of that regime. We, therefore, have assessed the application of that system only and exclusively through this criterion and this indicator, noting how often, in the concrete application to that exclusive purpose of the 41-a regime, there are then added afflictions, unnecessary restrictions, limits imposed which, of course, are illegal because they are not covered by the norm that provides 41-a. However, I say with serenity, because there is no doubt about this, that never, at any time in that relationship, the 41- bis regime is assimilated to the murder of torture. This is to make it clear and so that our debate is not conditioned by factors that can pollute the absolute clarity and attitude of each of us. [[Applause from Senator Cirinna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u148	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, it is also useful to recall what I said at the beginning of this debate, namely that Parliament - and a Chamber like ours - should avoid, on such sensitive matters, acting with the typical attitude of football fanatics: the more authoritative our decisions will be, the less we will take sides on various oppositions and factions. Forgive me, Senator De Cristofaro, but I don't think there's even a obstructive or dilatory attempt. I believe that here - as my colleague Mrs Stefani has rightly pointed out - there is the necessary attempt to find balance points with me throughout the investigation phase within the Commission. So the different positions, each for its own part, certainly have their own legitimacy in the debate we are facing in this House. And I must acknowledge that the rapporteurs and the President of the Commission have contributed to the attempt to find a balance, which obviously leads to moments of exasperation in this House. I therefore believe that it is necessary to find some peace and common sense in the search for that essential moment that a standard such as the one we are discussing requires and needs. We must fill a gap which - as Senator De Cristofaro rightly said - is now dated to 1984 and is the identification of the crime of torture within our system. But ours is not a system that did not, already a priori, provide for all those rules that however fall into the crime of torture, because the rules for the cases of murder, threats and injuries are already provided for in our law. So, the effort to find a balance, so that there are no football typhus positions, seems to me to owe it. I would also remind my colleague, Senator Gasparri, that the amendment which the Commission has approved and which has asked me to withdraw is not so much a fig leaf, if the same amendment 1,202, which you have tabled, provides exactly the same thing that I asked for with mine. So, I don't think it's a fig leaf, but I think it's going to protect the Forces of Order, which - as has been explained very often in this House - see in this measure something that can censor their behaviour. I believe that this is not the case and that the legislator's spirit is to provide additional guarantees: this is also the view and the meaning of the amendment that I have tabled. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u151	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am voting in favour of Amendment No 1,300 (text 2) and, on the contrary, I would ask Senator De Cristofaro if I can add my signature, sharing the reasons for it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u154	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, it was easy to predict that this debate would be the subject of the exploitation of those who, probably not in perfect sincerity and intellectual honesty, want to stand in this House as defender of the Forces of Order: a respectable attitude, but perhaps less respectable, at least on the part of those who speak, when there is no logical reasoning about the rules that we are about to vote on. Then I say just one thing to colleagues who have spoken to defend the need to keep the term "reiterate" in the legal text. Let us remember that what we are hopefully about to approve - hopefully for the last time in the passage into this branch of Parliament - is a so-called common crime; it is not a crime of its own, it is not a crime of policemen and carabinieri, but fortunately - as we have always argued - it will affect anyone who will put in place those behaviors that we have tried to define as torture, in full awareness of the complexity that this entails, because any text that can be tried can always be the subject of more or less justified criticism. I would like to make an invitation to my fellow senators who express these perplexities: let us try to think of the next time - without wanting to go back in time - when those dramatic and hateful episodes will happen, such as the robberies in the villa, when the elderly Venetian entrepreneur, Lombard or Sicilian, will be kidnapped in the house, tied up, subjected to torture, perhaps to have the combination of the safe. Will you have the courage to argue that mere torture - why not repeat - does not cause that crime to exist? We do not think only of police or policemen: we think of mobsters, robbers, and all the times when the arguments of those who want to maintain the adjective "reiterate" will have to confront realities that do not concern the forces of order, but very incisive, very hateful episodes of crime. Here, I would be very curious to see a defensive thesis for a robber, perhaps even extra-Community - let's also put the charge - who kidnaps and tortures an Italian citizen, or foreigner in turn, even if he is not a policeman. Will it be necessary to foresee the recurrence of torture? Isn't it enough to cut an ear? Wouldn't a homemade waterboarding in the dining room be enough to say it's torture? Colleagues, then have some intellectual honesty and let's move on quickly. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u156	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u157	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr Migliore's Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by speaking in dissent from the Group, although I agree with everything that Senators Gasparri, Caliendo, Malan and others from the Group have said. I say one thing to my colleagues: all the institutions that do demographic investigations, Undersecretary, tell us that when citizens are asked for them in whom they trust, they answer Carabinieri, Police, Finance Guard. The Forces of Order in general have more than 90 percent of the confidence of Italian citizens. I want to say to this House, to the Senate and to the Italian Parliament that the Italians' response to the confidence they have in politics is below 10%. That is the reason for my speech. I want to be with the citizens, without if and without but, like the Forza Italia Group, on the side of the Forces of Order. The citizens tell us that they do a job for which we have to thank them every day; there are martyrs and heroes, and that is not rhetoric. But if the Chief of Police tells us that what we do isn't right; if the Forces of Order launch a desperate cry of alarm and ask the Parliament of the Republic to change what we're doing because we embarrass their work, then we have to take note of it. The word "reiterate" is very useful. Well done before Senator Gasparri - and even before, in a more technical way, Senator Caliendo - to say that the interventions that are carried out by the Forces of the Order are 90 percent of the times of emergency. And do you think that the people who go to arrest, on whom they have to act in flagrant fashion, and from whom they often have to defend themselves, will not then use this amendment - which suppresses the word "reiterate" - to accuse the Forces of the Order themselves who instead work every day, without any continuity, for the citizens? And the citizens themselves recognize this because - as I said before - the Italians' confidence in the Forces of Order is very high and is absolutely tenfold compared to the confidence they have in politics. But if the Forces of Order tell us... CARDINALI (PD). But where is the dissent? MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). ...that this intervention is not good - and I'm going to conclude - I say that I, Senator Fazzone, who had the opportunity to attend the Forces of Order strongly, because in them we believe, we refuse to think that the Senate of the Republic can vote against them, and for this reason we will not participate in the vote. [[Applause from Senator Amidei.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u160	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the way in which this debate is taking place leads me once again to ask that the sitting be suspended and that the content of the amendments be checked more calmly, and above all how they are interpreted. What Senator Buccarella said just now is clearly in contrast to the opinion expressed earlier by Senator Stefani, rather than by me, although it is the same type of amendment. It is clear that, at the time when an adverb, adjective or formula is inserted into the provision, the same, depending on how one looks at it, can be interpreted in favour or against the Forces of order, in favour or even against a criminal. I say, then, be careful, because these misunderstandings result in great injustices. I really wish that there was no senator's intention to equate the legitimate action that a guardian of the Forces of the Order with difficulty with that of a criminal who behaves as such against people who suffer the crime. It's not the same thing. We cannot equate these two elements. We can't equate the Carabiniere, the police officer, a law enforcement representative with the criminal who kidnaps you in the house. What are we talking about? I repeat, then, that if the amendment of the measure can lead to such a misunderstanding, we must stop. We know that then, in the actual application, great inequalities arise and everything is needed except to create uncertainty in the guardians of the Forces of Order and in the citizens about which side the State stands. It's time to get this over with. And I'm also addressing the government. Stop, stop, dot on the i and make sense of this measure that does not have to be an ambiguous or misunderstanding that even threatens to equate the police officer, a representative of the law enforcement forces with a criminal who is committing a crime. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u163	AUGELLO (CoR). Mr President, I would just like to announce the reasons for my vote on this amendment. I have not intervened so far, because it is clear to me that, despite the good intentions of the extensors of the measure, some effort has been made and it has come out of it a half a mess in trying to establish which is the border between the crime of torture proper and the abuse of the prerogatives of the legitimate use of violence, which is precisely the police force. You can't hear anything, though. I have always been careful to distinguish between the moments in which abuse has actually been carried out in the past by the police and the moments when speculations and exploitations have been made about the behaviour of the police forces themselves. Just to be clear, I am the one who put a question on the Magherini case, which was discussed today. You can't hear anything, though. It is clear that the rule we are discussing changes very little from the point of view of a person kidnapper who enters into a villa and sevizia the owner, causing his death, to have the number of the combination of the safe. It is clear that in that case, from the criminal point of view, that subject already gets life imprisonment, being present all possible aggravating factors (voluntary murder). And it is certainly not the crime of torture that will change the quality of life of the owner of the villa, his heirs or relatives. Conversely, if that subject, who caused the death of the owner of a villa, gives rise to a prison revolt and, during his repression, loses his life in a struggle with agents, this can cause a problem to the same agents. The border passes there and it is clear that, in the present case, the rule in question would not convince me even if it understood the term "reiterated." It is clear, however, that in any case that repeated one tended to establish one of the specific characteristics of the torture offence. It is certain that torture is not an occasional violence against a person who is not in conditions of freedom. Torture is an act of violence that must be repeated, having generally a precise purpose: at least reduce in a state of psychological and psychic prostration the person who at that moment is not in conditions of freedom and, as a maximum, obtain some information from that same person. It is therefore clear that there should be an abysmal difference in the law between an act which constitutes an abuse of the legitimate exercise of violence and one which constitutes actual torture. Therefore, let me say that the word "reiterate" was already a small patch in color in a story that, in the whole articulated, cannot fix the border. That is why the police are considering you with great concern. And it is the reason why I, despite paying great attention to the need to sanction the abuses put in place (especially in some particularly difficult historical years of this country) by the police forces, I cannot deny the evidence of being in front of a text that basically - in a completely changed historical context - closes the stable where the oxen have escaped; and above all closes it badly, because objectively creates a series of huge problems on the professional risks in the conduct of the judicial police activity in our country. From this point of view, I even believe that the Members who, in the Commission, agreed on the possibility of introducing a solution to the problem under the term'reiterate' were all too cautious, because I do not think that it would have set any boundaries. In this case, much more simply, two acts of violence that constitute an abuse of legitimate prerogatives, but are acts of violence, become a crime of torture, and this is objectively unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u166	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business in order to make a proposal and, if you like, to appeal to this House. Given the conditions of our work and the fact that it is actually about an hour before the end of the sitting, I would like to take up again with strength and constructive spirit the invitation from Senator Candiani to make a suspension of the work which is in some way also a real and effective search for a solution, given that today's debate has certainly been long but rich and has taken place on the substance. I believe that all political forces have a duty to try to reach the widest possible majority on this point. Of course, there is no certainty that this can happen, but I also believe that it calls for us to move forward and do it soon, if they are legitimized by an effective search for consensus solutions, given the matter, they may perhaps have more strength to resume our work. I would therefore ask the majority forces and the occasional majority that would form on this amendment (in fact, it seems to me that there are deep concerns in the even in the forces that usually vote in favour of the government) to pay attention to the specific issue and to have access to a suspension of the work that is actually an invitation to the search for a shared solution. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u169	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I believe that Parliament - and the Senate, of course - has a debt to Italian society and the international order and that this debt must be honoured: it is the debt to finally introduce the crime of torture into our system, with twenty years of delay. I therefore believe, quite frankly, that the requests to postpone the decision cannot be accepted. I believe that we must all bear in mind the conditions under which we have finally come to discuss this measure. I must tell you that this morning, but also earlier this morning, I have been tempted several times to ask the presidency of the Senate to convene a meeting of the Conference of Leaders, because I think that our discussions are always profitable, that of course we need to confront each other, but that it is also necessary for our debate to have a result in a vote. We arrived at this morning's sitting after having already widely used much of our time, even in previous sessions. We are now discussing a specific issue and, if you will allow me, with all due respect for the various views that have been expressed, the debate in this House has so far not facilitated the clarity and intelligence of the problem we are talking about. In fact, by conversing with many of my colleagues, I noticed - and I apologise to the friends I spoke to - that the matter under discussion was not clear. And it was not clear why - I repeat, as I have said before - the debate in this House is difficult, it is very complicated. The debate in this House, which mixes political positions with substantive positions, makes it even more difficult to deal with matters which are already in themselves. It is clear that if we are twenty years late in introducing a crime against which we also have an international obligation, having signed a Convention, there are profound reasons. In fact, two rights are at stake, which are equally fundamental to society. It is, of course, the right of the State to enforce, even by force, the law. It is a fundamental right, without which democracies cannot survive. But there is another equally important right at stake, a right which is a principle of civilisation: the use of instruments that can be defined as torture - and it seems to me that the formula that has been proposed, which we are now debating, is properly defined - is punished. There is a huge difference between the legitimate use of force and torture, and that is the point. We are with the Forces of Order, we defend them and - as has rightly been mentioned - we applaud them for the sacrifice, which often leads them to lose their lives in the course of their work. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). But...? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). But...? ZANDA (PD). But we want our state to use force legitimately. The definition formula proposed to us (and proposed to us by the Commission in the draft law) provides that "Whoever, with violence" - then I will speak of "reiterate" - "or serious threats," or acting with cruelty, causes acute physical suffering or a verifiable psychic trauma to a person deprived of personal freedom or entrusted to his custody, power (...)." And I emphasize that. We are talking about "violence", "serious threats", "acting with cruelty", "causes (...) physical suffering" to a person who is deprived of personal freedom. You understand that in a democracy this is still unacceptable. This formula has had a life, a story. The Commission has been examining it for more than two years, without remembering when it examined it in previous legislation. The term "reiterate" has appeared and disappeared. In a first phase, the Commission approved a version in which the expression "reiterate violence" did not appear. I believe that he had decided well on that occasion - and I say this in order to eliminate any possibility that my statement should be interpreted politically - when the Commission was chaired by Senator Palma. The term "reiterate" did not appear in the version approved during the presidency of Senator Palma. That was the right solution, and why? The rule reads: "Everyone, with violence or serious threats and not with violence or serious threat." The plural makes the term "reiterate" absolutely useless. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In the same formulation of the norm - you know that in the laws words must be measured and it is harmful to add useless - it was absolutely useless to add the word "reiterate" to it. I believe that we have discussed this a great deal. We have all intervened and we must all know and be clear that we are not talking about the legitimate use of force by the Forces of Order, because we are asking for this. We want the law to be respected by trying not to use force. But if necessary, then the force must legitimately be used, but torture, violence or unnecessary threat must not be used. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] We don't want that. I therefore ask the House, because I believe it would be a sign of awareness on our part, of voting. We have been arguing for a long time; we have debated. We are still firm on the definition of the measure. We are in a very delicate phase of the legislature, because we are ending the summer session. We have some very important measures to consider. Frankly, I think that the importance of the subject, the deepening of the matter and the awareness that all senators now have of the problem make it necessary to vote. I have to tell you: help the House. And I say that very sincerely. I don't like the time quota instrument. [[Comments from M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] But he likes the use of obstruction much less, because it is much worse than quota. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u172	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, we in the AL-A Group support the premises of Senator Zanda. There is no doubt that the measure and, in particular, this issue are extremely sensitive. Senator Zanda, I agree that the necessary protection of the citizens, to which you referred, must undoubtedly be balanced in a correct and balanced manner with the regulatory coverage of the necessary operation of the guardians of the order. I must say that she has made some evocative and interesting considerations: she has solved the question of the term "reiterate" (i.e. she justified its elimination), with the use of the nouns "threats" and "violence" in the plural. Of course, Mr Zanda, it is undoubtedly evocative to ask what is needed to add the word "reiterate" if threats and violence are already foreseen in the plural, meaning that there should be more threats and more violence. President Zanda also added an interesting consideration for the truth, saying that the term is useless and wondering why, in our legislative activity, we should not eliminate all useless words. But I wonder, Mr Zanda, but if the term "reiterate" is so useless, why does it apply so much to wanting to eliminate it? [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] If the plural use of the words "threats" and "violences" is a criminal case only when there are more threatening and violent conducts, I wonder why we should remove this term. Our legal system is full of sometimes useless words, which very often create difficulties in interpreting the judiciary and the judicial bodies: one more or one less... President Zanda, although you say that there is no political significance in a majority, that this morning, on this issue, is being carried out between the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement, this will be evaluated by the public opinion. A measure will come out of this House which, for that reason, we shall not vote on, Mr Zanda. And in a moment we will also be right about the deletion of the term "gravi". In this connection too, amendments have been tabled to delete this word. It was removed by the Justice Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, because at the Senate, at first reading, we drafted and drafted the norm without the word "reiterate". It is true, then, what President Zanda says about this, but we also predicted the expression "serious threats". When the text of the provision approved by the House of Deputies arrived, I experienced a moment of confusion: I did not understand whether this measure came from an institutional body of Parliament or from a coiffeur, because the corrective activity of the measure dismissed by the Senate seemed to me more as shammers than as legal practitioners. Dear President Zanda, in order to strengthen that balance between the two positions that we need to calibrate, we ask that there be a greater incidence and a greater qualification of the crime of torture, because this is the result of the calibration that - in our opinion - is necessary between the protection of the rights of the citizen, to which so much President Manconi often refers, and the protection of the operation of the Forces of Order. If this is useless, as President Zanda says, I wonder why today he refuses, for something useless, the support of my Group in this House, which has not been lacking at any other time and which would not be lacking even today. But we are not willing to realize that dark, dark, unpleasant and hateful understanding of accepting when they serve and not accepting and not liking when they do not serve. This is getting tired of us, we're tired of this way of doing it. It is for this reason that, by sharing the arguments of Senator Quagliariello, I feel like saying, dear gentlemen, that it is not true that there is no political value as well. Consider, because tomorrow our statements and comments from the press will allow public opinion to imagine what is perhaps true: a different majority in this Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from Senator Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u175	THE COURT (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak only to confirm that I welcome the proposal for the rewording of Amendment 1,205, tabled by the rapporteurs at the last sitting, which, like Amendment 1,204, is intended to expunge the word'reiterate'. In this way, if the amendment were adopted, like amendments 1,204 and 1,300 (text 2), paragraph 1 of Article 613-bis of the Criminal Code would read: "Everyone with serious violence or This would be the same wording adopted by this Assembly, almost unanimously (234 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and no votes against) at its first reading at its meeting on 5 March 2014.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u178	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are talking about violence, torture and threats, and I do not accept the threats of those who want and demand the quota of time. I am not in favour of those who threaten this House by saying 'or do as we say, or ask for the quota for the work'. President Zanda, the reason is simple. During the last few years of parliamentary work, we have become somewhat accustomed to the usual loopholes of quota, trust and all the other parliamentary techniques that you will use to prevent this House from speaking and expressing its views. We are not here because every time the parliamentary debate goes beyond the time you have foreseen, the Conference of Leaders is convened, where you make your proposals, intervene and prevent us from negotiating, speaking and making clear also to those outside the positions of the various parliamentary groups and individual Members. I listened carefully to the intervention of the Democratic Party Leader. I see a debate taking place in this House between those who are in favour and who are on the side of the Forces who work daily to maintain public order in the country and who - on the other hand - the Forces of Order constantly want to humiliate them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] I'm sorry, President Zanda, but this government and this majority are not working for law enforcement. If that were the case, in fact, there would not be a different union of law enforcement and police forces every week in front of Montecitorio to protest and to say that the government must go home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I am sorry, but, despite your immense work, as you say, those who today represent public order and are called to protect it are not happy with you. He is not happy with the work you are doing and dozens are writing to us that what is happening in this House is scandalous towards all the men and women of the police forces who, today and today, are jumping deadly to maintain public order in this country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] So we do not want to punish the Forces of Order, we do not want to limit the Forces of Order, we do not want to hear that from now on the Forces of Order can no longer do what they want. We don't want to hear it, because the law enforcement forces are maintaining public order in this country, ladies and gentlemen. Consequently, being on the side of the Forces of Order at this moment means being on the side of those who demand public order, of those who ask for a different society than the one you are carrying out, compared to the crap of this country. Just read the papers or listen to television to see what's going on. At this point, President Zanda, I invite you not to ask for quotas, but to ask this Government - which I do not even think knows what we are talking about - to ask the question of trust. Ask for trust, so at least that's where we end up. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , and so at least outside, once again, they will see by whom this majority is composed. This is a majority now variable on the arguments, in which the one sitting on my right outside speaks well and inside it rockets badly. And finally the citizens will also see what colleagues do to our right. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Comments of Senator Cappelletti.]] Shut up!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u180	You have the right to do so. Senator Centinario, let Senator Giovanardi speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u181	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, President Zanda referred to the 1984 New York Convention. I shall read: For the purposes of this Convention, the term "torture" means any act by which severe physical or mental pain or suffering is intentionally inflicted on a person, in order in particular to obtain from him or a third person information or confession, to punish him or her for an act which he or a third person has committed or is suspected of having committed, to intimidate her or to put pressure on her or to intimidate or to put pressure on a third person, or for any other reason based on any form of discrimination. I would like to know what this text has to do with, which effectively designates what torture is... (Senator Comaroli animatedly discusses with Senator Montevecchi).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u182	Senator Comaroli, return to your place. (Senator Centinario approaches the benches of the M5S Group and animates discussions with the Senators of the same Group. Senators Quaestors De Poli and Malan intervene). Senators Quaestors should help to maintain order; it seems to me instead that where they are there is disorder. Senator Malan, you're the equivalent of a force of order, so if you do, use force. Please, Senator Giovanardi, distract us.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u183	I would like to point out that the New York Convention says things totally different from those of this bill. If the New York Convention were immediately transposed by the Italian Parliament, it would be fine for me, because it explains what torture is and what is called torture: extorting confessions, extorting information, discrimination against the person. This is absolutely far from the text we are discussing. Covering with an international convention to introduce completely different concepts is not intellectual honesty, because - I repeat - it would be enough to introduce the New York Convention into our system and we would have solved the problem of our delays. But I say more to Senator Manconi. I have to tell you this, because when we discuss it, we need intellectual honesty. You accused me of not remembering that the Carabinieri of Florence were convicted. I have here the shorthand report produced during the sitting: after recalling that the offended person was in the grip of cocaine, that he had combined in all colors, that the citizens called the carabinieri, that the latter intervened and were acquitted by the accusation of beatings, I added that they kept him on the ground, put the cuffs on him, they should have predicted that he could have had a heart attack and that they took seven months of conviction for manslaughter. I said I wasn't discussing the seven-month sentence and we'd see the appeal. Dear Senator Manconi, I expect you to acknowledge my intellectual honesty, since you said that Senator Giovanardi did not remember that they were condemned. They were sentenced to seven months for manslaughter, because they didn't expect that keeping that gentleman in that position could cause a certain consequence, since he was high on cocaine. That said, let's cut to the chase. For me, those carabinieri have claims, while the judge has sentenced them for manslaughter, and I accept that; but half of this House is torture, because it has been a week since Presidents of the Region and colleagues in this House that that episode of the three carabinieri is torture, so they should go to life imprisonment. Look at the difference between a Convention - to which the debate is recalled for two hours - that torture is when you take a person and inflict pain or severe suffering to extort confessions or information, or to force him to say things that accuse someone else (this is the International Convention) and a debate in which we discuss instead legitimate police and police interventions called by citizens to intervene in difficult situations, where it can happen - alas - that sometimes they are acquitted because they have done nothing, and other times that it is manslaughter because there has been negligence. All the discussion of the political forces in this House is to designate as torture to be punished with life imprisonment this intervention of police and policemen, where there is no trace of the torture mentioned in the International Convention. President Zanda, this is what we are talking about. Then explain to me where the International Convention applies to the written rules in the Commission. Tell me why we do not transpose the text of the New York Convention on Torture into our order: it would be fine for me, because it affects true torture, as Mr Augello said, and not different things that have nothing to do with torture. It is clear that there is a prejudice to the Forces of Order as large as a house, because they want to criminalize manslaughter, not arson. Here we talk about attitudes, in all the cases we have mentioned (which are the cases of school that are repeatedly mentioned also by Senator Manconi), to the limit of negligence and impriety, not of arson crimes that can be condemned until life. So that leaves this incredible knot. If this rule passes, it will suffice for a judge to go and see the parliamentary work to find that the majority who wanted to approve this measure defined as torture a case that the judiciary itself had indicated as manslaughter (and continued to insist on guilt and criminalization even when the agents had been acquitted). The names of these fully acquitted agents continue to be reported, who had no responsibility, as torturers and as murderers: go and see on social networks. And these things find a sounding board in Parliament. We are talking about torture and we want to introduce the crime of torture, while you are working on an ideological case that criminalizes policemen and policemen when they intervene to do their duty. Then they can make mistakes: it can happen that in a physical struggle, when there is to intervene by force, they can also make mistakes. If they're wrong, they'll be convicted of manslaughter. They're gonna get convicted. AIROLA (M5S). Stop! GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). But from this to making them look like criminals in a preventive way, it means that there really is a prevention against the Forces of Order.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u186	AIROLA (M5S). You want us dead!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u187	Colleagues, the only thing that is certain here is that I know and apply the Rules of Procedure. Senator Giovanardi spoke in an explanation of vote, then spoke the Undersecretary Migliore, and one Senator per Group for ten minutes can speak. I believe that President Zanda wants to speak on the order of business at the moment. ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business for a material clarification. The text that we are dealing with, that is, the first article that defines the crime, does not provide for a specific crime for the Forces of Order... AIROLA (M5S). You're doing this on purpose! VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. What do you want? ZANDA (PD). ...but it is addressed to anyone who tortures, is part of the Forces of Order or is any citizen. So there is no point in Mr Giovanardi continuing to talk about the Forces of Order. Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). You're talking about law enforcement! ZANDA (PD). The Forces of Order, if necessary, in the event of an act corresponding to this case, will see an assault applied, as provided for in our law every time the Forces of Order commit a crime that is punished for all citizens. So the article you're talking about isn't about law enforcement. It's a general offense that applies to everyone. If you read the article, if you didn't! [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u189	Senator Caliendo, the possibility that I have granted with respect to the intervention of Senator Giovanardi has already been used by his neighbor, Senator Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u190	So, what are you asking for? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have heard Senator Lo Giudice accept the rapporteur's proposal on his amendment, which is equivalent to giving an opinion in favour of amendment 1,204, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other members of the 5 Star Movement. Perhaps the rapporteurs are ashamed to acknowledge that they have delivered an opinion in favour of an amendment of the 5 Star Movement. [[Senator Buemi's comments.]] The first question is that you have adapted to Amendment 1,204. Then there is the second question raised by Senator Zanda, who had already made, on the order of business, a divisive intervention, certainly not aimed at calming the waters. On the one hand, he explained the reason for the abolition of the term "reiterate" and, on the other hand, also ventilated the threat of recourse to the quota of the times. Finally, he explains that the case referred to in the first paragraph concerns anyone and that the charge of the second paragraph is addressed to the official. But would you please read the text? The case under the first subparagraph shall apply to the official in the performance of his duties. Therefore, in order to assess the relevant behaviour of the public official for the purposes of the charge, account should be taken of what is described in the first subparagraph. That's why it was necessary to insert the term "reiterate".
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u193	AUGELLO (CoR). Mr President, I would just like to point out that, with regard to the economics of the work we are doing in this House, we should ensure that the speeches on the order of business are indeed such. President Zanda, a person I consider, has not made an intervention on the order of business. Not only that: he first made an intervention in which, basically, he allowed to understand that the times could be contingency, but that this would be displeased (also this intervention, among other things, is not really on the order of business), after which he made a second intervention of merit. Objectively, I don't think anyone can do that. I would just like to draw your attention from this point of view. In addition, it was a matter of substance and even of no importance, because the question he raised was so clear that we had all discussed it in the course of the debate. I remember, among others, the speeches of Senator Buccarella and myself. It is known to all that this law is not only applied to the Forces of Order. It is also known to all that things are put in such a way that it will be applied only to the Forces of Order. [[Applause from Senators Quagliariello and Rizzotti.]] That is the salient point of the matter. On this point we have now faced each other and I do not think it is appropriate to make exceptions, albeit valuable and deserving. Otherwise, apart from the fact that we would no longer get out of here, we would not understand the meaning of an intervention on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u194	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,300 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, identical to amendments 1,204, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators, and 1,205 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lo Giudice and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u197	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask you to note that in the previous vote my vote was intended to be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u198	The Presidency takes note of this. As a result of the previous vote, amendment 1,206 is precluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,207, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, up to the words "Article 61." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,208 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.209.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u201	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, of course, I note that the adoption of the amendment which deleted the word'reiterate' from the text has taken the view that the International Convention of New York has been completely distorted. So this measure has nothing to do with what the Convention requires us to do. It has nothing to do with torture as it has been indicated internationally. We are introducing in our order a sword of Damocles in front of all the policemen and policemen who certainly - not that I want to give them a suggestion - will have some nice problems when, in defense of 60 million Italian citizens who are in difficulty and call them to help them, they will know that, by the will of this Parliament and this majority, their intervention, if something fortuitous and unwanted happens, can lead them to life imprisonment or in any case to a trial that lasts years, with the usual circuit of people who travel around Italy to criminalize them and to make press conferences, with all the lawyers Anselmo and what we have seen in action in these years, to lead to a preventive criminalization of the Forces of the order every time they intervene. I am sorry because - I come back to this - it was enough to introduce the international standard into our system and we had already solved the problem. We all knew that was the torture. We all know - even in the collective imagination - what a torture is: when a person, to whom freedom is taken away, is placed there and is subjected to physical and psychological pressures of every kind, with water, inducing sensations of drowning, leaving it in the dark; all those things that continuously cause a physical or psychic debilitation. Here we came instead to the threat or to the slap, because during a struggle it is enough that one twice an agent tell a delinquent, stop or stop you, stop or throw you in jail, stop or ruin you and we have qualified this behavior as torture. So it is written: we have qualified this behavior as torture. You wrote this, regardless of the outcome. Then, of course (you said), there is the trial and there will be the psychologist or psychiatrist in front of the mob boss who will declare: When they arrested me and dragged me to jail, they strangled me and abused me; now I see double, I have an evil in my head, I have syndromes and I feel terrible. The boss will then file a complaint because he suffered severe psychic trauma. And what will happen in front of this complaint? The cops will end up in the investigation register, and then they'll go on trial and they'll be called an expert who will have to determine whether or not the psychic trauma actually occurred. And this is the torture of the New York Convention? And this is what happens in the Third World countries, where they take people, kidnap them, keep them for days and are subjected to the most terrible heinousness and suffering? Is this comparable to what we have been talking about? Now I'm not doing all the chanting of names again, but you're the one who did it. It is you, at all levels, including your regional presidents, who bring out these names like a chant and criminalize the police for merely manslaughter that you will turn into the crime of torture. This amendment, at least, proposes replacing the word "gravi" with "gravi" with "gravi and repeated", because - as my fellow Members have rightly pointed out - from the Diaz to the other cases the convictions were there: we have the beatings, we have the manslaughter, we have a whole series of behaviors that are, rightly or unjustly - depending on the point of view, also on the person and public opinion - subject to criminal sanctions. But in addition to this, here is added a case that leads to life imprisonment. For the hundredth time I ask the question, but I will also take it out, to public opinion, collecting consensus: the carabinieri who in front of Palazzo Chigi stopped what tried to kill a colleague are heroes or are potential murderers? Reply from the Senate of the Republic: If when the Carabinieri put the cuffs on the attacker, Preiti, this man had a heart attack, they would have gone to trial and the sentence would have been life imprisonment, because they would have caused his death, keeping him in that position violently, just as it was manslaughter in other cases. But here you turned him into a life sentence; so: heroes or criminals? In the coming episodes in which police and police will have to intervene, for public order or to arrest a camorrista or, as my colleague Gasparri recalled, when they go to pick up a fugitive in some neighborhoods of some southern cities, what will they do if they are attacked? Will they not intervene and leave him there because they should intervene by force? By acting by force, the force will have to use it and if there is a struggle they will have to block it by force. If they block it by force, what happens? And if the struggle lasts half an hour because it will last, it will beat, it will beat, and it will take three, five or six cops to stop it, will they all go on trial because they have caused injury? Do you know what happens to those who have been acquitted? For four years they had to change their homes, have had to move with the family, suffer economic pressure that ruined them; their photos were posted on the sites by giving them murderers. They also had to protect their children from the fact that they were accused at school of being children of murderers. Then of course, they were acquitted, but does it help to be acquitted? Absolutely not, because those who accused them continue to accuse them as if nothing had happened, as if the trial had never happened. This is the hellish circuit where you put the police forces. I don't know who Senator Manconi's union friends are. I have seen the SIULP, the SAP, the COISP, the FIASP, the union of officials, five or six of the major police unions that group 90% of agents, write terrible things about this measure. I do not know him, President of a Commission, with which police union he is talking to, because those with whom I have spoken are all majoritarians, center-right and center-left: they represent the whole great area of police forces, from officers to officials. I do not know if you have had the opportunity to read what they have written, which then coincides with what the former chief of police Pansa said, namely that with these rules they will no longer be able to do their job, their duty to protect citizens. As I said at the beginning, first we protect the citizens who are attacked by crime, then the Forces of order that must intervene putting their lives at risk, then rightly also the criminals: the people who commit crimes must be protected, but in this order. On the contrary, we cannot change the order for which criminals must first be protected, then possibly citizens and then perhaps the Forces of Order. That sounds really surreal to me. I would like to see such a debate in the United States Congress; what would happen if someone talked about the United States police like that and not when he shoots. I said it before: it's absolutely out of place; the Italian policemen and policemen live, who rather get killed in order not to kill someone; because they use weapons only when they are pulled around their necks, many times too late. For those who go to the parties of the police and the carabinieri it is very sad to hear the reel of drums and see the widows, the children of the police and the carabinieri killed, to see the Head of State and the Minister of the Interior moving. Go and see in what situations they have died and how they have been killed. Luckily, in our culture, police and carabinieri, if they're just not pulled by the neck, they don't use weapons. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]] But just because they don't use weapons, they must also face a confrontation with those who have to stop. Today they will know that instead of having the protection of Parliament, you will approve a bill that will certainly create an automatism, because if from their intervention someone has suffered a injury or the dead will have escaped, it will automatically trigger the accusation of torture, with these consequences. Be assured that with this rule there will be committees, committees and other social expressions that will automatically start with the complaint. Automatically the famous lawyer will arrive, go to the family and say: "I'll take care of it, there's a million euros to take; however, we go to trial, something happens." This is the chronicle, Giovanardi does not say, Anselmo says, and I would have liked someone to have something to say about a lawyer who writes and boasts - of course having many customers, because he is good - that he is able, conditioning the media, television, radio, and TG3, to win the trials. Do you realize how far we've come? One boasts of winning against the Forces of Order not in the courtrooms, but in the media that upset the facts and give it a totally untrue interpretation. I repeat that I accept the sentences. It's not that I don't accept them: I can share them or not, but I accept them. It is the other part that, when the sentences end with absolution, does not accept them and continues to say that policemen and police are still murderers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u204	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask you for clarification. We have just voted on an amendment by Senator Cappelletti repealing the word'reiterate'. I am aware that what we are going to vote on now is another amendment that replaces the word: "gravi" with the words: "gravie" and "gravie" with the words: "gravie." The word "reiterate" is added again but in this case after the conjunction "e" and I believe that this is why the amendment has been made admissible. However, I wonder if it was not appropriate to vote on Amendment No 1,209 first, so that Senator Cappelletti's vote would be taken later, and I would like to make the following point: 'Reiterate', since this is re-introduction of something for which the House has already voted. I would therefore ask the Presidency to state its reasons and whether it is not appropriate to consider Amendment 1,209 to be excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u205	First, the deleterious and then the replacement amendments are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u206	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u208	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak on Amendment No 1,209, whether the text contains the words:'very serious and repeated', or whether, according to Senator Marton's observation, only the word'very serious' (I have not quite understood the matter). In any case, I am speaking in support of Amendment No 1,209, which is either intact or possibly mutilated, because the word'very serious' also provides an additional element in the event of probable judgements. I would like to say that by voting on these amendments we want to reiterate what is happening in absolutely linear, transparent and democratic terms. Someone this morning has shown disaffection for some speeches; colleagues, you are hurting, because there is a time for debate and there is a time for voting, so I think it is right to weigh the words and evaluate everything. I am very bitter about the vote just now, but I consider it a matter of clarity: the word "reiterate" has been deleted and the pretext has also been used to say that I did not use it in the amendment at my signature, but that text had also been written by providing for a second part which clarified very explicitly the limitation of the application of these rules to those who made legitimate use of force. The amendments should therefore be understood in their entirety; the word "reiterate" could also be removed and other criteria added to avoid a presumption of guilt against those who make legitimate use of force. However, this morning's debate and the vote just now have introduced an element of clarity, ladies and gentlemen. Put it as you wish, but on the amendment of the 5 Star Movement, the PD, other Left Groups and - I must record it with regret - also some senators of the party of the Minister of the Interior of this country, which every day has to do with the police forces and the unions, have shared the repeal of the word "reiterate". [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] I regret that, because I would have wished for other choices and I do not say so in a polemic or instrumental way. However, this was a moment of clarity. I am a supporter of bipolar democracy; we are now a little tripolar, but at this stage there was a bipolar moment when the positions of the 5 Star Movement and the Democratic Party coincided and, on the other hand, there were other realities that defended another principle. We are not, however, the torture party against the anti-torture party. Don't even play this game: we want anti-torture, international conventions. It has been explained with punctuality by Senators Caliendo and Giovanardi, the amendments of Senator Stefani are clear, as are the positions expressed in recent days by Senator Palma, with the competence of person who lived part of his life immersed in the sources of law and their application. In short, we made it clear that the text had to be voted on in different ways. We also saw a debate between you. In fact, Senator Esposito, some no TAV - those who use crossbows and marbles against police forces - may say that they have been tortured as soon as they have been strangled or tied, which I hope will not happen, because those who do not want the TAV can participate in the procession, can also do a sit in or interrupt for two hours a construction site, if you want it; I understand the reasons of the democratic dialectic, but pull bolts with crossbows (I have seen in the forests ancestral scenes) is not something that you can face with a wave of e-mail. They will say: "They tortured us!" and I know that many colleagues from the politically hostile side - but certainly not enemy, we are opponents - do not share this choice. We fear, in fact, surreptitious interpretation, instrumental application. I turn to those who listen to us out of here: let's think about legal fees. Colleagues of the New Right Centre, you express the Minister of the Interior: let us make an agenda or something in Parliament to see if we can contribute to the legal expenses of members of the Order Forces. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]] If they are convicted they will pay them, because if they have committed an act of torture, violence or injury, they have been wrong. Moreover, even in the absence of this measure, there have been many excluded from the service, even high leaders of the State Police, after the events of Genoa. In this country, therefore, there is law, even in the absence of this law. There are, then, discussions going on. I have seen that a police union is prevented from remembering the events of the G8 of 2001; some can remember them and those who have been attacked cannot remember them. [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi and Rizzotti.]] And if a police union, the COISP, makes a demonstration I imagine that it will make a speech, an intervention, will not go with the Molotovs and marbles in Piazza Alimonda, where the quaestor tells him that it does not have to go (so I take the opportunity to solidarity with one of the various unions). I think that supporting this amendment and the others (among other things, the measure would not be concluded today, so we can also weigh the reasons for that amendment better at the next sitting) would have been an act of wisdom. It is true, as I said before, that what has been decided in the Commission can be changed in this House (if not, what we are doing here), but when change is important and delicate perhaps a moment of reflection would be useful. We know that the Justice Commission is always the bearer of doubts, because it is the Commission that deals with very sensitive issues, which concern criminal law: these are important issues and fundamental issues and it is therefore no coincidence that they require additional discussion. I shall therefore vote in favour of Amendment No 1,209 and the other amendments and will speak on them. You say you'll make the quota. Senator Zanda, that statement in cauda venenum could also save it: we know that you can make quota. You put your trust in everything, even the electoral law that you don't like anymore, let alone wonder! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] Now you must first withdraw trust. Now there is the cow in the hallway (I liked that expression of Bersani) and we are the cows; moreover, you have Cows, which is a friend and colleague, so everyone has its cattle. I give cattle to ourselves, because I think that cow in the hallway is us. [[Laughter.]] No, don't laugh, Crosio, that it's us: Bersani said, that he's a creative person in the images. This one of the police is also a big cow, it's a bull in the hallway. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] You turned on a piece of the country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut and Senators Giovanardi and Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u209	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u211	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to remind this House of the concept of gravity. What is gravity? Gravity is an objective component of the conduct and, as such, is ponderable from the outside. Therefore, eliminating this objective component of the crime, which must be evaluated from the outside, means essentially entrusting to the subjective dimension all the foreseeable consequences in the matter of legal certainty. The requirement of gravity - and I remind the Secretary-General in particular - is a concept already widely present and well-known in our criminal system. Consider, for example, the serious threats referred to in the second paragraph of Article 612 of the Criminal Code. It is therefore important to note this crime of those characters that can be pondered from the outside. The first attempt, which came from the House, to eliminate the word "grave" seems to me to have already been an operation - I repeat - not treated and governed by a legal operator, but rather by other operators, with all respect for the different professions. Today, Senator Lo Giudice seems to have adapted his amendment to that presented by Senator Cappelletti. For the truth, even this cleverness to reform its own amendment denotes an intellectual and political dishonesty, because one does not even have the courage to say that he withdraws his own amendment and votes on Senator Cappelletti's amendment. He would've been more honest. The concern to which President Zanda referred in his speech must be avoided. It has no political value. Since it has no political significance, we do not have the courage to say that the amendment is withdrawn and that Senator Cappelletti's amendment is supported. Gentlemen, these games are fine, I understand them and, perhaps, I am also willing to practice them, but not on such a sensitive issue as the crime we are imagining today. I agree with what President Zanda said. We have been in debt for 20 years for a measure on this issue. Bonds are fulfilled, they are paid, but not with counterfeit coins. President Zanda, the bonds are fulfilled with real coins and today we, in this Senate, are fulfilling an obligation, to which we have been unfulfilled for twenty years, paying with a false law. And it is because it does not respond to the conventions that have led to our alleged failure. For these reasons, I too support the amendment because the word "grave" even becomes very serious. In this way the objective element, external to the norm and ponderable, which binds the body of the judiciary to affirm the responsibility of a policeman or other subject who, with extreme violence, causes suffering or trauma, is more strongly identified. Rather than strengthening this element, at first in the House they eliminated it, I do not know on the basis of what reasoning. We have chosen to eliminate something that is already present in our criminal system. For what reason? It is said that these are useless words, more or less. If all words are useless, we approve only the title of the law and delete the words of the text, so they are all useless and in this way we fulfil the obligation deriving from the international conventions. In that case, I would vote in favour of such a measure. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u212	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,209, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.210, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, up to the words "Article 61." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,211 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,212.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u213	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u215	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). It seemed to me that we had finished the work, to move on to the late-session speeches. If we continue, I would like to speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is 1.30 p.m. and the debate has been very heavy. If we intend to bring the sitting to an early stage in order to allow the meeting of the standing committees, and no one is against it, I have no problem with that. Therefore, if everyone agrees, I propose that we conclude the vote on this amendment and then move on to the speeches at the end of the sitting. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Would you like to speak to Senator Caliendo in my place? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, you can't ask me to anticipate the end of the session and then talk to you. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as the last vote, I shall not be inflicting torture. That should be said. This amendment goes back to the term'reiterate': it is acceptable and we have been talking all morning about this term.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u216	Senator Gasparri, I also say this in response to Senator Marton, in this case the word "reiterate" is not re-introduced, because in the original version of the text this adjective referred to violence and serious threats. By placing this adjective as requested by Senator Stefani's amendment 1,212, it refers only to threats and is therefore different from the text voted previously.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u219	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I believe, however, that, even if partially, the term "reiterate" is a useful thing and therefore I will reject the position in favour of amendment 1,212. Therefore, considering that this is the last vote of the sitting, I do not insist on any further arguments, which I reserve for other occasions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u220	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u222	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, Amendment No 1,212, which has as its first signatory Senator Stefani and who is in the vote, is an amendment of great intelligence, if I may say so, and is appreciated by me, not as a senator, but as a modest operator of the law. Senator Stefani has made a distinction between threats and violence, predicting that violence may not be serious, but threats should be. The distinction is intelligent, because while violence is something that can happen with ease even from the outside, threats must be repeated and one threat cannot suffice. That's why I believe that Senator Stefani's surgery was to be welcomed and could have become a praise, a point of mediation. Senator Stefani intelligently proposes to introduce the term "reinstated" with reference to threats, excluding it with reference to violence. Therefore, not even accepting this mediation means having - let me say so - an attitude of arrogance, arrogance and threat, which is not appropriate in a political force in the Senate. We always vote, regardless of the rest, on the basis of our beliefs as to the goodness or not of the measure under consideration. In this we distinguish ourselves, in the sense that we vote for what we share and do not vote for what we do not share. Senator Stefani, thank you for this amendment and I am sorry, believe, that I appreciated it, it was not appreciated by others. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u223	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,212 tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,213 has been withdrawn. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u224	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u226	Mr Warra (PD). Mr President, on 23 September 2015, together with Senator Manconi, following an attempt to commit suicide by a prisoner in Modena Prison, who had filed for house arrest months earlier in the light of his health conditions without getting an answer, I asked the Minister for Justice to know if he had any idea of the serious situation in which the surveillance office in Modena had been operating since June 2014 and, in this case, what actions he intended to take to remedy it. No answer. In the meantime, the situation has worsened. On 13 and 14 July, the Regional Coordination of the Criminal Chambers of Emilia-Romagna chose to abstain from the hearings and from every judicial authority and today held an assembly in Modena. The extremely serious and unsustainable situation in which the surveillance court in Bologna has been in too long, on which Modena also depends, was also denounced yesterday by the Regional Guarantor of persons deprived of personal freedom, Desi Bruno. Also yesterday, in a letter sent to the ANSA, the prisoners of Modena prison stressed the serious consequences on their daily lives of this situation. Analoga letter had been sent by the internees of the prison house of Castelfranco Emilia, in September last year, to the Ministry of Justice. Also in September 2015 the volunteers of the Sant'Anna district house and of the Castelfranco Emilia working house explained, in a letter to the newspapers, that torture is for the prisoners and internees of these penitentiaries not being able to obtain answers from the magistrate of surveillance on very important issues, such as the permission for a reintegration path (for example, a job outside), for the entry into a community or for an alternative to the detention; not to mention the permission of a few hours after years of imprisonment, or the recognition of the discount that the law provides and that would allow to see the date of the end of the sentence, or the authorization to go out to volunteer or a work of public utility, as - once again - the law provides. It is precisely with the words of the volunteers, that I make mine, that I want to conclude the surgery. That of the magistrate of surveillance is, for Modena, a problem that has not been inequipped for too long to not leave a deep mark in the credibility of the institutions, those very institutions that have the task of bringing, through the penalty, the people who with their crime have put themselves out of the law, to respect and trust them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-660.ana.u227	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.39 p.m.
