ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, after checking the quorum. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u10	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, at the sitting of 19 December 2013 and at a session of February 2014 there was talk of an affair that concerned my person and some colleagues, contesting some facts, also asked - but this may happen - for my resignation. I made a speech in which I explained in detail the circumstances of a judicial affair which concerned me and the House was pleased to listen with great respect and attention to my explanation concerning a judicial inquiry which was then brought to trial. I must acknowledge that in these two years no colleague - and I would like to thank the members of the Senate for this - has used that affair for controversial considerations. Yet, every day the controversy here is not lacking. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Members for the respect shown on this matter and also to demand, if you will allow me, that they have told the Senate Assembly the truth that day, because in the courthouse yesterday it was recognized with a sentence of acquittal the non-absence of the fact. I'd like this to remain in the record. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u11	We're glad, Senator Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u12	The next item is communications by the President, pursuant to Rule 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2287: "Discipline of cinema, audiovisual and entertainment and delegations to the Government for regulatory reform in the field of cultural activities" is linked to the public finance maneuver. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion given - after hearing the Government - by the 5th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, in relation to the aforementioned draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u13	The Economic Planning Commission, budget, examined the bill in title, pursuant to and for the effects of article 126-a, paragraph 2-a of the Regulation, and after hearing the representative of the Government, notes that the deadline of 31 January indicated by article 7, paragraph 2, letter f), of law n. 196 of 2009, for the presentation of the measures related to the maneuver of public finance, has not been respected, as the bill in title is submitted to the presidency of the Senate on 16 March last, but that the said term, however, on the basis of numerous precedents, can be considered of a authorising nature. It also notes that the provisions of the bill are, as a whole, functional to the improvement of the efficiency of the cinema, audiovisual and entertainment sector, as well as to the reordering of the legislation on cultural activities, in accordance with the Update Note and the 2015 Document of Economics and Finance, and that they appear, moreover, to conform to the content proper of the connected to the maneuver of public finance, as enshrined in article 10, paragraph 6, of the Law of Accounting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u14	Taking into account the opinion expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission, examined the related bill No. 2287, pursuant to Article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, taken note of the position of the Government, I inform you that the text of the measure in question does not contain provisions unrelated to its object, as defined by the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u15	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00482 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mattesini and other senators, 1-00508, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, 1-00509, presented by Senator Blundo and other senators, 1-00521, presented by Senator Romani Maurizio and other senators, and 1-00552, presented by Senator Panizza and other senators, on the international abduction of minors. I call Senator Mattesini to explain motion 482 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u16	Madam President, the situation of children who have been kidnapped at international level is not yet exploded to the attention of the public or the media, but not even of politics and institutions. By the way, there are no precise numbers on this phenomenon. The representative of the Ministry of Justice, at a hearing in the Bicameral Committee on Childhood and Adolescence, spoke of about 400 cases to be resolved, while parents' associations talk of about 1,000 children being taken away in the last two or three years. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u17	I beg colleagues to stop at the center of the office to take their seats.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u18	Go ahead, Senator. MATTESINI (PD). What is certain is that the phenomenon is growing, also because of the increase of relations between people of different nationalities; unions often characterized by a high conflict also due to the socio-cultural and religious differences that lead, in the most extreme cases, to the subtraction of the child by one of the two parents. In the past few weeks and months I participated in meetings and conferences in which many parents were present, whose children were taken away. I listened to their words of pain - a pain that I would call chilling - with which they told the odyssey lived in an attempt to have news of the son, and even to be able to speak to him. They are people who are often confronted with bureaucratic delays, with a right that almost always stops at the borders of their own State; people who have also had an executive judgment, but who cannot be implemented. I would say that they are also exhausted people economically, because in the search for the child they invest everything: time, resources and often leave their jobs. In this respect, I would like to stress, with respect to what was called for in the motion, a first major achievement. One of the requests made was to establish legal aid, and in this sense I would point out that in the Senate Act 2228, which is an act of fulfillment of the obligations arising from membership of the European Union, and specifically in Article 7, access to legal aid is provided for all applications submitted under Chapter III of the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction. And this is indeed an important result and we hope that the Act will be adopted quickly. International child abduction is a very sensitive issue to be addressed in many respects: from a legal, social and cultural point of view. It is a subject that calls all of us to responsibility, Parliament and Government. And let us not forget that it is a theme that involves, but also upsets, the lives of adults, but above all that of children: children and girls suddenly uprooted from their daily lives, from their family and friends. It is a subject that needs to take into account the principles widely protected by international conventions, starting with that of the Hague. I refer to the right to have stable and lasting emotional relations with both parents even after separation and divorce, as well as the right to preserve their identity, including nationality, name and family relationships, as well as the right to be protected against illegal transfers abroad. To date, the only instrument used is the Hague Convention, ratified by 93 countries. It is the only binding international legal instrument that can be used for cases of international subtraction, but also for regulating the right of visit with countries not belonging to the European Union. It should be said, however, that the procedures provided for in this Convention do not find identical and uniform application in all Member States, since implementation depends on individual transposition legislation. In fact, this conventional instrument is in itself weak for three specific points: for the unsustainable times of the judicial process (meaning three degrees of judgment); for the frequent instrumental interpretations of Article 13 of the Convention by the courts of the country to which the minor is taken. In fact, Article 13 provides for exceptions to the return of the child taken, such as - for example - when exposed to dangerous situations. This exception is the most widely used, since there is no obligation to detail or demonstrate the alleged intolerable and dangerous situations. With regard to the third point, there is no ratification of the Hague of many countries of Islamic religion and several of the Far East. To date there are too many cases of jurisprudential contrast between countries that feed the disputes between parents and produce further damage to the development of that minor already put to the test by the subtraction and, therefore, by the breaking of their bonds. In fact, even when there are judgments of the courts, there are serious difficulties in having them executed and this on the part of both the Italian courts and those of the countries in which minors are detained. In fact, despite the Hague Convention establishing the jurisdiction of the judge of the country in which the child resides, there are really too many difficulties in executing the approved judgments. As a result of these difficulties, the motion before our examination proposes certain decisions on which the Government is called for action: on the first, in view of the difficulty of application and the great difficulty of enforcing the judgments, bilateral treaties are proposed promoted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, both with the States party to the Convention but also with the others, because we believe that the slimness of the agreements between two countries only determines a criterion of reciprocity to the full benefit of a rapid solution of the individual cases, in the best interests of the child. It is also proposed that action be taken at European and international level to ensure that sanctions are imposed on countries failing to comply with the obligations arising from the Convention and that appropriate diplomatic and political measures are also studied and implemented in order to induce those States to adopt a more collaborative approach. This choice, however, needs Europe to speak with one voice, so the Italian Government is urged to put the question of starting political action at European level in order to achieve a single family law at European level. Another crucial question on which we ask the commitment of the Government is the need to speed up and simplify administrative and judicial procedures, also through a greater institutional link, since the multiplicity of institutional competences lengthens the times and the time makes the difference when a child disappears, when you track him and when you can reconnect with him. Today we have three ministries responsible for this matter: foreign affairs, justice and internal affairs. We know that the Ministry of Justice, which intervenes through the Central Authority established in the Department of Juvenile Justice, is active in cases involving countries in which the Hague Convention is in force, while the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has jurisdiction in cases which have not been implemented through the Hague Convention and in cases involving States not party to the Brussels Convention. Moreover, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cases of subtraction, can provide, through its consulates, assistance to the Italian parent and child and, where appropriate, support the procedures initiated by lawyers. In fact, the consul general serves as a judge to protect for Italian minors resident in the territory of his jurisdiction. One of the commitments required with this motion is to send to all Italian embassies in the world a protocol of understanding on the initiatives to be taken in case of subtraction, such as the accompaniment of the parent who tries to exercise his right of visit because, to date, there is a completely different attitude from embassy to embassy. The last Ministry responsible is that of the interior, which must guard the borders and the airports in order to avoid the subtraction. This activity is also made more complicated, together with the others, because in Italy our law does not provide for a specific crime of child abduction. While in most Western countries such a case exists and is considered a serious social alarm offence, in Italy it is regulated by Article 574- bis of the penal code, i.e. within the code section inherent in crimes against the family and not, as it should, as a crime against the person and personal freedom. In fact, the protected legal good is not the freedom of the child, but the sole power of the other parent, and also the prediction of four years as the maximum edittale of the penalty determines the inapplicability of the main and most effective means of protection and search of the people. I am talking about telephone and environmental interceptions, but also protective and protective measures. There are therefore three ministries involved and it is clear that this multiplicity of competences extends the process. That is why the heart of the proposal is to set up an interministerial committee with special Commissioners in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Many parents and many children live a broken life right now. And those parents, in defining their parenting relationship, told us they had a dead but alive son somewhere in the world. I think that on this issue, which does not really concern tens of thousands of people, but is a growing phenomenon and which nevertheless breaks the lives of too many people, we have a duty to commit ourselves not only and not so much to the approval of motions but to follow up the implementation of what they require. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u19	I call the Divine Senator to explain motion No. 508.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u20	Madam President, before explaining very briefly motion No 508, at the first signature of Senator Stefani, I would like to point out that the entire Group of the North League is today at the Court of Cassation to file a referralary request, which explains the absence of colleagues at this time. I have listened to the illustration of the motion by the senator who preceded me and I can say that we all agree on an issue that is becoming increasingly important and heavy and is widening its borders since it began: I am referring to the question of the abduction of the minor children that takes place in the family. After separations, divorces and so on, disputes are born and minors are in a dispute that does not belong to them, as the same should have the right to relate openly and broadly to both parents. We need to assess the context in which such situations take place. These are issues that arise mostly in mixed marriages and, in general, in marriages where the two spouses have different stories, cultures and religions and which suffer a fracture when one of them decides to give a certain cultural approach to his child, clearly without the consent of the other spouse. We have recorded that there are about a thousand Italians who have suffered these tragedies, and mostly the countries involved are those African or North African, and in particular Egypt and Tunisia. According to the North League the tarlo can be perceived, in the sense that in mixed marriage it is very difficult to live together cultures really distant, provided that there is no irony agreement between the two parents. Making your children live in this country means adopting all the rules and guarantees that the Western system offers. If at some point one of the two spouses decides differently, the problems arise that we try today to bring to the government as a warning, because regulations, international conventions and government actions serve to give answers. Let me now turn to what the North League motion asks the government. Basically, as my previous colleague has explained, it is a question of identifying first of all what is the legal good that we want to protect, which is the right of the child. Unfortunately, we continue to talk about the right of parents, but at the moment we must understand that the child's right must be put at the centre. And at this point, in order to assert it, we must introduce in our legal system a new article of the penal code that governs a new case: abduction or detention also abroad of minor persons. And, precisely to give maximum effectiveness, it is necessary that this by introducing article in the code is also processable of office. If there are not only cultural and selfish intentions with regard to the child who has been taken, but also for profit, we also ask that the penalties be stricter than those provided for in Article 630 of the Criminal Code, and that the mitigating measures provided for in Articles 62 and 62-bis of the Criminal Code cannot be applied in this case. We also submit to the Government the need to set up a pool of expert magistrates, to be supported by the national anti-mafia and anti-terrorism prosecutors, to ensure effective coordination for the repression of all violations that always see victims of minors, as well as the possibility that in these cases the victims of such crimes can be admitted to legal aid. These are the few things, but effective, that asks the North League to fight these events. PRESIDENT I call Senator Bianconi to explain motion No 509.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u21	Madam President, I honestly do not know whether there are 400 or 1,000 invisible children (I hope that the Undersecretary can enlighten us in this, giving us more precise numbers), but even if we were to talk about only one motion in our examination they would have the full dignity to enter this House and ask colleagues and the Government to assume responsibility. We are talking about children who are illegally taken away from their families and taken abroad or even children who from abroad are illegally brought here to Italy and taken away from their families of origin. This phenomenon, unfortunately known for a long time, but by governments poorly included in their agendas as an area of intervention - I will then make some reference - concerns especially those family areas that break, and usually happens in multicultural nuclei that have different origins, culture and religion, and that often use different legal systems. Here too the great delicacy and difficulty in bringing back the phenomenon that affects these children to a perimeter of total protection. I was talking about invisible children, because they are suddenly taken away from their family, their usual home and taken abroad. It is at this point that the great ordeal begins for parents. As Mrs Mattesini explained very well before, suddenly these children, taken - I repeat - illegally, no longer have any reference points and become invisible even for the state administrations. Why did I say before the phenomenon is known and has ancient roots? We have a large number of conventions that dealt with it worldwide: the 1980 Hague Convention, the Council of the European Union, the Luxembourg European Convention, the Strasbourg European Convention, the 1989 New York UN Convention, and of course the 1950 European Convention on Human Rights. However, the phenomenon is still not limited at all to the present day. What happens in Italy? There are several powers: the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also shared by the embassies, i.e. those deeply entrenched in the world that represent our State and which often and willingly find themselves having to act as a buffer between the interests of the child and the family member to whom he has been illegally taken and the State in which the embassy resides. I am very happy that all the groups in this House have tabled motions, which are more or less the same as the requests, Madam President, because it is time to tackle this problem globally, in all its facets. What does our Group actually ask for? I would like to open a parenthesis on an experience that I have experienced myself. When we in this Parliament dealt with the problem of missing persons - also in this case the competences were of several ministries - the most natural thing that we had to ask for and put on the field is that one should take responsibility for being a coordinator. If a parent who asks to be heard must wander between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and write e-mails to the embassy of belonging, as well as squandering its resources will never find the ban of the skein. We therefore ask that, between the task forces of the three Ministries, a man, a manager, a Minister, a Undersecretary, an official be the point of connection between the three Ministries and the embassies of reference and, above all, the responsible and welcoming interface for those desperate parents. We also ask that in Italy the tightening up of Article 574-a be really effective and that this be a crime: it is a crime against humanity; it is a crime committed against minors who have no guilt and no possibility of being protected and self-esteem. So the larger, the more responsible and our government must be able to protect them. We ask to help those family members with an ad hoc fund and, if there is no fund, we think together to create it (or reimagin it, if it already exists) in the next law of stability. We call for the bilateral relations which The Hague required and which it has implemented to be even more stringent and not elusive, particularly with certain States which have not even assumed their responsibilities, but also with those which have assumed them. We then make a request to the embassies. There are great embassies and consulates, while others are a little less. We therefore call for uniform lines of behavior for all embassies, with regard to the acceptance of the requests of these parents, but also for concrete buffer responses, as I said before. Finally, we step up controls at our borders. When a parent comes out of the Italian perimeter with a child, we try to understand exactly whether it is totally lawful or whether he is hiding an illegal. We ask for more attention to those who control passports and the exit from Italy of minors accompanied by only one person. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u22	I call Senator Pelino, to explain motion No 521.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to point out that the phenomenon of international child abductions is constantly increasing and, as time goes on, it is becoming increasingly serious and worrying. It has been put to the attention many times, but it still fails to find an adequate and satisfactory solution. This phenomenon is due to several factors, such as the increasing number of cohabitations and marriages between people of different nationalities, which are also the result of the increase in migratory flows of recent decades. At the base there are very often contrasts due to different customs and customs, religious differences, which lead to extreme solutions by one of the two parents with the subtraction of the son to transfer him with him to his country of origin. It is good to clarify how international child abduction means the case where a child who has habitual residence in a given State has been carried out in another State, without the consent of the person who exercises parental responsibility and, therefore, also the right to determine the child's habitual place of residence. In addition, the detention of the child in a State other than that of habitual residence is also treated as removal without the consent of the parent or of another custody holder. We are talking about a real kidnapping of a person, to which is added the fact that the victim of this act is a minor, with all the implications that derive to it from his situation of reduced defense precisely given the minor age. The effects are devastating not only because of the serenity of the child taken away, but also because they cause enormous worries and suffering to the parent who sees his child taken away. What must be protected is precisely the right for children to have stable and lasting relationships with both parents - in the case of separations or divorces - in order to ensure that they can grow peacefully and with the affection of the father and mother to whom the right of parenthood is recognized. There are a number of legal instruments for the protection of minors at international level, although these are not yet in force in all States. The 1980 Hague Convention, ratified by the Italian law under Law No 64 of 1994, to which 93 countries have joined so far, aims to return the child to the State of habitual residence. At present, the Convention is the only international legal instrument that can be used to safeguard the interests of the child. However, it should be noted that there is no uniformity in the application of the procedures laid down in the Convention in all States, the implementation of which depends on the individual internal rules. The Convention is valid only for Contracting Countries (European and non-European). As regards the operational implementation of the Convention, it is entrusted to the so-called central authorities of each Contracting State, which are responsible for pursuing the Convention's forecasts and for cooperating with each other in order to ensure its implementation. In Italy, the role of central authority is entrusted to the Ministry of Justice, Department of Juvenile Justice, within which the office II - conventional central authorities was established. It is precisely the location of the child illegally transferred or detained, in order to ensure that voluntary delivery takes place or to facilitate a friendly settlement; the exchange of information on the child's social situation; the initiation of judicial or administrative procedures, aimed at the return of the child or, in case, to allow the right of visit; the organisation of the preparation, at administrative level, of the necessary measures to ensure the return of the child in safe conditions. At international level, we can also mention further legal instruments to protect the child who has been stolen. There is precisely Regulation No 2201 of the Council of the European Union of 27 November 2003, also called the Brussels II-a Regulation, which aims to establish a common European area on family law. The above regulation complements the Hague Convention on the Abduction of Minors and provides for the jurisdiction of the court of the country where the minor resided before the subtraction and the enforceability of the decisions issued by the competent court with the standard certificate, i.e. the European Enforcement Order. It also regulates the subject of the 1989 UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Law No 176 of 1991. Article 3 highlights the principle of the child's greater interest; Article 8, aimed at preserving the identity of the child, including his or her nationality, name and family relationships; Articles 9 and 10, referring to personal and direct relations with both parents; and Article 11 for the protection of the child against illegal transfers abroad. This Convention, together with its optional protocols, is the most comprehensive instrument for the protection of children's rights. Further legal instruments are the 1980 Luxembourg European Convention and the 1996 Strasbourg Convention, as well as the 1950 European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which has been ratified by all the Member States of the European Union and whose Article 8, on the right to respect for private and family life, has been used on several occasions in disputes for minor disputes. In the face of such a broad international regulatory framework, the phenomenon of international child abductions has not yet found a decisive solution. In Italy we can note a lack of protection offered by Article 574- bis of the penal code, due to the location of the same norm among the crimes against the family and not against the person or individual freedom. Similarly, a maximum of four years' imprisonment for the crime of child abduction is provided for. Moreover, as noted over the years, even in the face of the considerable commitment of the Department of Juvenile Justice, the instrument has proved to be insufficient in resolving in a favourable way the numerous cases of child abduction that have been dragging for years. The Forza Italia Group expresses the need for a crisis unit to be set up at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation or a body at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to examine and evaluate the complaints of children illegally taken or detained abroad and to prepare, in agreement with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, the necessary actions to facilitate the return to Italy of the child taken. We see the need for a new operational instrument that is able to relate more effectively to the governments of foreign states in order to solve definitively the problems related to child abductions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u24	I call Senator Blundo to explain motion 535.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very questionable parliamentary custom to consider such important policy instruments as motions as marginal acts. Motions are inserted and removed in a calendar of assembly work directed towards what the Government and the majority consider to be the priority of the country, without considering what they really are, as on this occasion. The motion that I am preparing to present today, which will be discussed in conjunction with the motions tabled by the other parliamentary groups, concerns children, as well as their right to protection and not to be deprived of one or both living parents and not dangerous for their mental or physical safety. After having seen it on the calendar several times and then removed, today we finally address the issue of the international abduction of minors. This is a growing phenomenon, because marriages and unions between people from different countries and cultures are increasing. However, there are no six-monthly reports on the number of missing persons that allow us to photograph the situation as a whole and with the precision it deserves. A few days ago, the six-monthly report was published after a lack of years. Considering the data published in August last year, there would be 610 minors whose tracks have been lost, while there were 341 in the previous year cases of children taken by a parent or other relative. The various institutional entities competent in our country in this matter seem to be negatively conditioned, in the effectiveness and speed of their preventive action, by a reductive and purely case-by-case approach of the problem. This orientation should instead give way to a completely different method, recognizing that in the case of a child who was taken - even one - the greatest attention must be given in order to bring him back as soon as possible to his country and home. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I understand that a joint motion must be agreed, but the speeches made by the Members have been heard. The lesson has already been given to us by Ecuador. I am referring to the duty to pay attention even to a missing child. There is little coordination between the Italian institutions for the crimes of international child abduction. There are competences recognized at the head of the Department of Juvenile Justice of the Ministry of Justice, the Directorate-General for Italians abroad and the migration policies of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Italian embassies in the world and, last but not least, the Commission for International Adoptions and the Guarantor for Childhood and Adolescence. In addition to the fragmentation and diversification of competences between the various bodies mentioned above, the real weak link in the matter of child abduction is represented in our country by legislation. The current article 574- bis of the penal code offers, in fact, ineffective protection in these cases because it inserts the crime of child abduction among the cases of crimes against the family and not against the person or individual freedom, as it is in fact, because a minor does not voluntarily choose to interrupt relations with a parent and the parental environment consisting of grandparents, uncles and cousins, to whom he is affectively linked. From the punitive point of view of this abuse, the identification in four years of the maximum penalty imposed on anyone who subtracts the child from the parent undertaking parental responsibility turns out to be insufficient and not disheartening for those who intend to put in place similar deprecable actions and, above all, prevents the use of some effective means of proof such as environmental and telephone interceptions, which are very useful in these cases. This framework is further affected by the lack of effectiveness of the international agreements still in force in this area. I am thinking, first of all, of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child of 20 November 1989, ratified in our law by Law No 176 of 1991, which lays down fundamental principles for the protection of the right of the child to preserve identity, nationality and family relations, as well as to maintain personal and direct relations with both parents and to be protected against illegal transfers abroad. Then there is the 1980 Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction and introduced into our law by Law No 64 of 1994, which has as its main objective the return of the child to the State of habitual residence. However, the Convention itself does not appear to be properly applied. Having taken these premises and coming to the analysis of the substance of the text, with this motion at my first signature, the Government wants to commit itself to ensure greater organizational coordination of the various institutional entities competent in the matter of international child abduction both in the perspective of prevention and in that of the greater investigative, financial and psychological support to the persons involved; to support, as far as competence is concerned, appropriate legislative initiatives, aimed at strengthening the sanctioning framework in the matter of international child abduction, as well as to strengthen the case of crime also through the inclusion of the same in the context of crimes against the person and personal freedom; to promote, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of bilateral agreements with the signatory States and not signatories of the Hague Convention, introduced in our law as I had previously said, in order to favor, in the exclusive interest of the child, the rapid solution of each case of international removal and to allow the return of the minor to the State of habitual residence. The motion also wants to commit the Government to adopt a strategy at European and international level for the definition of concrete sanctions against those countries that do not fulfil the obligations deriving from the Conventions, causing physical and psychological harm especially for minors, and to elaborate and direct to the Italian diplomatic representations in the world detailed acts of political direction, in which a time limit of two weeks is fixed, within which embassies or consulates must send a response to the Italian courts that have ordered the return of the minor to the country of origin. Ladies and gentlemen, virtuous examples of this are already present in Italy, but unfortunately they count on the fingers of one hand. One of these is found in the Province of Vicenza, where, thanks to the collaborative spirit established between the chief prosecutor Cappelleri and the judicial police, more than 80% of the cases have been solved, which unfortunately does not happen in other Italian realities, where this percentage is around 15-20 percent. I hope that the Government will faithfully accept these commitments, without putting before the primary and exclusive interest of children any other kind of interest that is completely foreign to the urgent, transparent and necessary need to give concrete answers to parents who are victims of international child abductions. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u26	I call Senator Maurizio Romani to explain motion No. 548.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u27	Madam President, we are starting from the fact that only in 2015 there were 243 cases of international child abduction in Italy and this trend is growing sharply. Each year more than 310,000 new couples of different nationalities marry and another 140,000 marriages end with separations or divorces. When we speak of the international abduction of minors, we refer in fact to the case in which, following the breakdown of a mixed parental relationship, one of the two parents decides to return to the country of origin, bringing with it the offspring. This is a traumatic event for those who suffer it, an intrafamily violence that disturbs every possible balance and generates important damage in the process of growth and formation of the personality of the child or the adolescent. The discipline of international child abduction is based on the 1980 Hague Convention, ratified by 93 countries, and then by the Brussels II-A Regulation. These regulations have been integrated with the figure of the Ombudsman of the European Parliament and I would like to dwell on this. It is a poor figure from a purely administrative point of view and, above all, based on a mere fictio iuris: in practice, the office of the Ombudsman of the European Parliament operates to date without its legal basis. Few are aware of the genesis of this role, which was born even in 1987, at the initiative of the then President of the European Parliament, Lord Plumb, to offer assistance to the so-called mothers of Algiers, those French mothers whose children, born as a result of mixed marriage, had been taken away in Algeria. Over time, the Ombudsman's office has acted de facto as a window open to the public of separate parents, but without ever having a legal basis, nor a solid administrative structure. This has greatly impoverished its competences despite the enormous potential both on the profile of the legislative contribution and on assistance to children. This service, despite its enormous potential, is absolutely inadequate as it is structured, especially because it has converted into an accessory to Parliament's Parliamentary duties, without any continuity and administrative structure and therefore without any guarantee for the citizens, despite the sensitivity of the cases dealt with. The other point is that there is a need for better coordination between the two key figures in the whole matter: the central authorities on the one hand and the same office as the Ombudsman of the European Parliament. In fact, this office provides parents with assistance in seeking an alternative way to legal action, which is potentially detrimental to the interests of the child. This should be done (in fact, it would) through conciliation or an alternative resolution to resolve this dispute. In addition, it could play an important diplomatic role in coordinating these procedures, which you have all said are complex, between the authority and the Member States involved. It is the central authority that collects complaints from the various stakeholders, and it is precisely from this that the European Ombudsman's office obtains many of the information that is useful to carry out its task. This same office has difficulties in communicating with parents, as well as major delays in procedural investigations. I therefore hope, above all, that the operators will pay more attention precisely to the timing, given that the interests at stake are very high and it is very difficult for them to be compensated in a pecuniary form as any civil damage. Our task is therefore to focus on prevention. We must require the Commission to draw up a vade-mecum valid for all Member States and translated into all the languages of the European Union, where we talk about shared foster care, the international abduction of children, but where we also talk about the rights and duties of parents and, above all, the rights of children. Of course, this information will not solve all the cases but it will be useful to light some light bulbs, to raise some doubts and therefore, perhaps, some problems can also be avoided. As usual, it is better to prevent than to fight. Another problem is the lack of information among professionals, particularly among the younger ones. The client must be guided in the choices of those who practice the profession, with criteria obviously legal, and not ethical, since often that client that we have sat in front of has not clear the interest of the minor. The preventive function of the lawyer is to heal what I call a brain dysfunction, that attitude that often leads the parent to want at all costs to remove the offspring from the former partner and take it with him to another place. Attitude that, in most cases, is totally in good faith. Even when this is not there, it is difficult for the bad faith to direct itself against the offspring; it is much more common for obstinateness through legal forms, towards the other spouse. There is like a revenge; a wound and an offense that I must heal by punishing the other mate. It is also important a list of behaviors that the lawyer can advise to his client in order to prevent any unpleasant and unpleasant cases of international abduction of the child. First, you can ask the judge of the court to order the police station to revoke the permit to expatriate. The consular representation of another State may be informed of its disagreement with respect to the granting of the visa. In the case of a minor who must go abroad on vacation, a commitment to return (e.g. in Italy) to the consular authority of the country in question can be demanded. You may ask to ban expatriation without the consent of both parents. It may be asked to have the other parent's country recognize the measure prohibiting expatriation or to contain periods of permanence for specific problems. Let us all remember, in the end, that children have passed in the last few years from being, rather than a mere object of subtraction, object of protection, until they become true and proper owners of rights; here is the need to listen during the proceedings, aimed at achieving the so-called best interest of the child. These judicial disputes are not disputed by a house, a ring, a bank account, but by a boy, sometimes a child. Therefore, it is discussed as if they were objects of exchange, but they are forced, despite them, to live in a twofold suffering: on the one hand, the loss of the other parent and the need to live in a situation of semi-clandestineness; on the other hand, a permanent conflict between the desire to recompose this family nucleus - or at least to reunite with the distant parent - and the need to learn to live with one's own "capitrator," which always remains a parent. Even when these cases are resolved at the legal level, there are enormous difficulties in enforcing judgments both in the Italian countries and in the countries where minors are detained. Therefore, the appeal is about the certainty of the enforceability of judgments and a strengthening of the powers of prosecutors, which to date, for example, cannot require telephone or environmental interceptions for these cases. We are confronted with legal systems far from our own, with different laws and procedures, and often with the unpreparedness of our lawyers in dealing with cases that are regulated by a single rule, the 1980 Hague Convention. This is a further reason for reaffirming the importance of another figure, that of the national mediator, so that it is a point of reference for citizens and parents who face such difficulties. An expert figure, listening, who can bring these demands and concerns back to international mediators and who represents families at the negotiating tables where these disputes can be overcome. This requires the establishment of a harmonious and homogeneous European legal area. The lack of legislative uniformity, not only in the area of international child abduction, is therefore considered by the Members of the European Parliament themselves a serious lack in the political and institutional life of the Continent. This is our task today as legislators: to fill these gaps in the legal framework. There is no uniform and complete rule in jurisdiction to cover all situations. In fact, in our motion we ask: to promote and strengthen the sanctioning framework by raising the maximum edittal penalty provided for in Article 574-a. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). We also call for the promotion and strengthening, within the Community, of the figure of the Ombudsman of the European Parliament and for the establishment of that of the national Ombudsman and the conclusion of new bilateral agreements; for the establishment and support of a fund dedicated to legal aid. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u28	We greet the students and students of the High School "Antonio Rosmini" in Rovereto, in the province of Trento. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I too take this opportunity to greet the students of Rosmini high school in Rovereto, not only because they come from my land but also because they have been carrying out an important project of active citizenship for years, which fortunately involves many of our schools. My previous colleagues have reiterated many of the data on minor migrants who have disappeared after their arrival in Europe, which are alarming. According to the 2015 report of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, in the first six months of 2015, with the landings, 13,320 unaccompanied minors arrived in Italy and of these 5,114 are irreperible, disappeared. The risk that these minors will end up in illegal circuits, provide labour for organized crime or be exploited for various kinds of illicit trafficking is not to be underestimated. This thesis is also supported by the many national and international associations or organizations that deal with issues related to childhood and adolescence. Europol, the European Security Agency, argues that missing children have been kidnapped by a criminal structure to initiate them into prostitution or slavery. In fact, in Germany and Hungary, again according to this agency, many criminals have been arrested in connection with human trafficking, which would now focus on the hundreds of thousands of desperate people who have arrived in Europe. According to the humanitarian organization Save the children, in 2015 26,000 unaccompanied children arrived on the continent and, after their identification in the country of arrival, many of them disappeared. They are the Invisible, they do not have a face or a name, but they are very young, they are all under eighteen years old, an age when their peers go to school, do their homework, play ball with friends or swim in the pool. Instead, they are victims of abuse and abuse. These are the words of the President of the Parliament's Committee on Children and Adolescence. Moreover, the survey of the weekly "l'Espresso" has aroused much indignation, taken up by various media and dealt with in many television broadcasts, on the fate of minors who find shelter at Termini station in Rome, with many of them who, in order to survive, end up prostitutes. Fortunately, we must say, of the many minors who came to our country, not everyone would have been in the hands of criminals, as some were entrusted to members of their family, but we do not know where they are. The fate of unaccompanied minors is therefore becoming one of the problematic aspects of the immigration crisis and Italy seems to be the country that controls the movements of immigrants less, also because many of the refugees have an interest in losing their tracks. Their aim, in fact, is to move to the North, in places such as Sweden, which grants asylum to children immediately after identifying them, or to Great Britain, which has just decided to accommodate more children from war zones. That of children is an emergency in the emergency and while aware of the economic difficulties there is the need for a targeted effort precisely for the protection of the very young. The government cannot ignore the fact that the disappearance of 5,000 minors is a very serious issue and must, as a matter of urgency, put in place an organic and adequately funded policy. In my motion, which has also been signed by many colleagues whom I thank, I asked the Government for some commitments, among which some urgent initiatives in order to track down children, but above all the commitment to start an investigation in order to identify any criminal organizations that act on Italian territory for the exploitation of minors. Even with the other motions many commitments were asked. I am convinced that the subject is really very complex but it is also very topical and dramatic, so I hope that the Government, beyond individual commitments, will take this issue to heart and find a way to intervene. We have often talked in this House about the problem of migrants, and even in the course of the debate following President Renzi's last report before the European Council I have had the opportunity to reiterate that the Dublin Agreement needs to be revised, that the recognition of political refugee status needs to be streamlined and speeded up. These are certainly very great problems that Europe is struggling to deal with. However, I believe that above all on the emergency of minors and children we should put an extraordinary initiative in place and I hope that the Government will be able to seize this call and find with us the way to meet this drama in the drama. [[Applause from Senator Fasiolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u30	I declare the debate open. Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the international abduction of a child is a particularly sensitive issue because it is a land where human rights and relations intersect, causing a conflict of interests at stake which is extremely difficult to implement. The motion that we are debating today, and which I have not hesitated to sign, clearly sets out the legal framework and the regulatory gaps in the discipline, which must be filled in the best interests of the child. International child abduction occurs when one of the parents voluntarily decides, unilaterally and without the other's consent, to subtract the child with the intention of hiding him abroad and to keep him with him permanently. Another case in which the child is taken away is that in which the child himself is prevented from returning to the normal state of residence after a transfer took place on legitimate grounds, as in the case of a vacation, at the end of which the parent who took the child with him prevents his return to the country of habitual residence. It is evident that such episodes can cause trauma to minors who are faced with the detachment from one of the two parents and, at the same time, the detachment from the context of life in which the child was inserted. The Convention on the Rights of the Child signed in New York on 20 November 1989, ratified by Italy by Law No 176 of 27 May 1991, states that the child is entitled to maintain a stable relationship with both parents. Article 9 of the Convention also lays down the right of the child, separated from both parents or one of them, to maintain regular personal relations and direct contact with both parents, unless this is contrary to the child's own interests. This principle has been taken up in the Italian law, by Law No. 54 of 2006, and also the Court of Cassation has specified that what most finds is the interest of the minor not to be arbitrarily removed from his living environment. The focus of the issue is therefore the interest of the child, who is the only one who has to emerge among all, and it is the only aspect that should be taken into account in the practical application of the legislation. The child's right to bigenitality, provided for in our law, which prevents a parent from depriving the child of the other parent and the child's right not to be eradicated from the centre of his or her affections and interests, where the same has grown and has always lived, must both be protected. The uprooting of the child from his own environment is in fact an act of violence that can cause a serious prejudice to the psychophysical well-being of the child. In cases of subtraction, as in all decisions relating to children, the best interest of the child in cultivating a constant and joint relationship with both parents and in preserving the environment in which the child has integrated and cultivates the most significant relationships must therefore be safeguarded. Where the child, habitually resident in a Member State, is illegally led or detained in another EU Member State by the other parent, the procedure for the return of the child provided for in the provisions of the Hague Convention on Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction shall apply. As clearly noted within the text of the motion, at the first signature of Senator Mattesini, on which we are today to discuss, there are three main critical issues of the legislation currently in force and applicable: firstly, the length of the judicial process; secondly, the frequent instrumental interpretations of the exceptions to the repatriation of the child taken as there is no obligation to detail and demonstrate the alleged intolerable or dangerous situations for which the repatriation of the child would be denied; finally, there is no ratification of almost all countries of Islamic religion and countries of the Far East, which have a culture, tradition, mentality and conception of the position of women and minors very different from ours. The multi-ethnic evolution of civil society, the new migratory flows and the less solid family relationships make the phenomenon more and more frequent; it is enough to think that the total number of cases in 2015 amounts to 211 and therefore it is increasingly urgent to have legislation whose application is rapid and effective and whose provisions are placed to protect the exclusive interest of the child, who is, in such cases, the most vulnerable. I therefore believe that the legislative proposals listed in the motion should be taken into account and implemented, in particular: the establishment of a fund dedicated to legal aid for victims of abduction; the establishment of new bilateral treaties with acceding States and non-members of the Hague Convention; and the introduction of sanctions against countries which do not comply with the obligations arising from the conventions and the intensification of border controls, so that minors are not taken away. I would also like to pay attention to the opportunity to give more powers to embassies and, in particular, to the embassies themselves of means and resources that enable them to manage their relations with foreign authorities as quickly and correctly as possible, providing parents who go to the country where the child has been brought all the assistance necessary to deal with the situation. In particular, a kind of preferential legal procedure should be created for the management of these cases, i.e. coordination between structures, leading to rapid feedback; ad hoc figures should be created as a legal task force that can be temporarily deployed in embassies to deal with particularly urgent or serious cases. In fact, in most diplomatic offices there are no figures of legal experts. Children disputed in family disputes become protagonists of scenarios of conflict and mutual hatred between parents and, in cases of illegal cross-border transfer, are suddenly deprived of their relationship with one of the two parents and eradicated from their social, school and geographical environment. He is denied the right to bigenitality and the right to maintain stable and lasting relationships with both parents. To avoid this it is necessary to take action and implement all regulatory reforms aimed at placing the interest and the good of the child at the centre of them, in order to reduce as much trauma and irreversible damage as possible in the growth and development of the child. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u32	Senator Silvestro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too am speaking on the first-signed motion by Mr Mattesini to support the content of this motion and to make some further analysis and evaluation. The international subtraction of minors can be defined as a social emergency that is characterized by the strong emotional impact, not only for the parent who suffers the subtraction of the child, but also for the children involved, who, in addition to the trauma of being removed from the place of residence, are placed in an emotional situation of strong stress generated by interparent conflict. Unfortunately, this phenomenon is growing more and more, also and probably because of the increase of binational marriages that involve the union and, sometimes, the clash of different cultures. According to data presented in the 13th Half-Year Report on Missing Persons in 2015, by the Special Commissioner of the Government, the number of missing minors still to be traced is 15.117 out of a total of 29.234 missing persons: an increase of 3,170 compared to 31 December 2014. According to the humanitarian organization Save the children in 2015 arrived on the Continent 26,000 unaccompanied children and after their identification in the country of arrival many of them disappeared. The alarming picture highlighted by these data obliges us to investigate, through a careful analysis of the phenomenon, the causes of the failure of the current regulatory framework to protect children's rights. Indeed, while international and national legislation places the best interests of the child at the centre, on the other hand, the steady increase in the phenomenon shows that the current legal framework is ultimately ineffective. In the first instance, this is certainly due to the absence of binding international standards, which leave the applicability of the rules to the spontaneous transposition of individual States. I am talking about the 1989 UN Convention, which has not been immediately perceptive and therefore cannot be the source of any appeal in the country agreed. I am talking about the 1980 Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction, which is the only binding international legal instrument that can be used for cases of subtraction or for regulating the right of visit with countries outside the European Union. However, the procedures envisaged are not identical and uniform in all Member States, depending on the implementation in practice on the individual national transposition legislation. And I am speaking - as has already been mentioned - of the Luxembourg Convention of 1980, which is also a convention which is rather weak and which leaves a wide margin of discretion to the court of the defendant State. It is therefore clear that, in order to stem this phenomenon, it is necessary to act for the sharing of procedures, reaching the establishment of a European legal area that is harmonious and homogeneous and promoting the definition of a single European family law. In the same way, it is important to act at European and international level to ensure that sanctions are imposed on countries that fail to comply with the obligations arising from the conventions and that appropriate diplomatic and political measures are studied and implemented in order to induce those States to be more cooperative in the exclusive interest of the children involved. This should be accompanied by a firm promotion action, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, aimed at concluding bilateral agreements with the signatory States and not signatories to the Hague Convention, so as to facilitate, in the sole interest of the child, the rapid solution of each case of international subtraction. The ineffectiveness of the supranational regulatory environment corresponds to an eighty weakness of our legal system, which is entirely concerned with the case under Article 574-a of the Criminal Code, which, however, does not seem to guarantee sufficient protection, because the protected legal good in this case is not the freedom of the child and his self-determination, but the responsibility of the other parent, while it would be more appropriate to include this crime among the crimes against personality or individual freedom. It should also be noted that the sanction that we currently use does not allow either the voluntary arrest in flagency or the detention. To this must be added a reflection in terms of competence and the application of the law, because the subtraction of the child is carried out between citizens of different nationalities, which, through this behaviour, create a conflict of application of the jurisdiction and the legislation of reference. In these cases, there are rules of international law, but they are mainly aimed at defining which court is competent to apply its right to the child. I see the weather is fading. I will leave the text of my speech to be appended to the report of the sitting. I come to the conclusion, referring to the fragmentation of institutional competences, which in Italy are assigned, according to their respective competences, to the Ministry of Justice, to the Directorate-General for Italians abroad of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and to Italian embassies in the world. This fragmentation does not produce positive results. In fact, it is necessary - and therefore I absolutely support what is provided for in the motion at first signature of Senator Mattesini - to ensure greater organizational coordination of the various competent institutional entities and the elaboration and dissemination, to all Italian embassies in the world, of a protocol of understanding on the initiatives to be undertaken in case of subtraction of an Italian minor. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u34	The Presidency authorizes you to attach the text of your speech, Senator Silvestro. The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask her to give her an opinion on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u35	Madam President, in the light of what I have heard, the fact that the debate on this subject has met with the sensitivity of almost all the groups present in the Senate and, above all, the fact that the points on which the senators have spoken are largely shared, having gathered the willingness to work on a joint motion, I would ask you to postpone the debate to another sitting, in order to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u36	If there are no objections, we accept the Government representative's proposal. I would therefore like to refer to the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u37	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00379 by Senator Di Biagio and other senators, 1-00435 by Senator Divina and other senators, 1-00436 by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, 1-00443 by Senator Lucidi and other senators, 1-00468 by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, and 1-00472 by Senator Mattesini and other senators, on the protection of children's rights in territories controlled by ISIS and Boko Haram. I call Senator Di Biagio to explain motion 379.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say that today's motions - which have finally come to this House's attention - are an important sign of the institutions' awareness of the tragic and complex facts denounced, despite the repeated and sometimes inevitable delays in calendarisation. The subject remains delicate, painful and uncomfortable in some ways. But today, with the motion at my first signature and with the others filed in these months, we want to reserve the right importance for this, not having so far found the right attention in the agendas of the Executive, overwhelmed by the priorities of a very different nature. But today we are here because in territories not so far from our homes we are consuming the barbarity par excellence, the one that has as victims the minors, and before this human degeneration a state that qualifies itself as modern, democratic and of law, cannot stand and watch, limiting itself to demonstrations mostly rhetorical of condemnation. This motion is the daughter of his time: it has been about thirteen months since his publication and the presentation of the report of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child. At the time, let's talk about February 2015, the scenario we had before was dramatic. But the shameful situation that conditions childhood in the new and old areas of crisis has suffered a significant deterioration, with the terrible surge of migratory flows that has been consumed in recent months and the heartbreaking image - alas even exploited - of small Aylan on the Turkish coasts is perhaps the expression par excellence, as a metaphor of a failure not only of strategy but also of culture. The culture of respect and law, on which modern Europe was founded, begins to show its flaws. This motion also wants to deal with this. The fact that this treatment takes place a few days after Easter and the massacre of Lahore in Pakistan takes on an even stronger symbolic value. Let us remember this together: less than two weeks ago, 72 people, especially women and children of the Christian minority, were killed in a suicide attack in a public park. In the attack, claimed by the Taliban of the Jamatul Ahrar group, the suicide bombers would explode near swings at the central point of the park. The disturbing symbol of religious extremism next to an innocent game on a festive day must be the image around which we have the moral obligation to shake our consciences and alter the instruments of resistance to an objectively changed conflictual scenario. These dramas, in some respects officialized at the time of the aforementioned UN report, were violently revealed to the international community and the fact that the denunciation is followed by silence confirms the substantial failure of the international system. As some other subsequent motion has pointed out, there has been a resolution by the European Parliament, which in fact remains a dead letter. The theme of child abuse is increasingly being crushed under the weight of the alleged greater importance of other issues in the Mediterranean area. Obviously this confirms that in the face of such serious tragedies, daughters of deviant ideologies, the attention of the international community risks being conditioned by the balance linked to the area of interest. What is happening in the areas of crisis represents a new frontier of Islamic terrorism, before which we seem to have no adequate means of control and struggle and whose systematic persecution of Christian minorities is one of the most atrocious facets. According to the World watch list 2016, published last January by the international NGO Open Doors, 2015 was the bloodiest year on the side of the persecution of Christians. The number of Christians killed in the world by reason of their religious belongings has increased by 63 percent. There's a real holocaust going on, and no one seems to want to talk about it. The main victims of this tragedy are mainly children, systematically killed, tortured and tortured by ISIS militiamen or extremist groups active in the various areas of crisis, in some cases because the children do not want to abjure themselves to convert to Islam, as evidenced by the tragic events of Nineveh, Iraq, December 2014. The escalation of cruelty, strategic and organized, in recent months is proof of the weakness of a narcotic West. How can we not remember, here, the words of Pope Francis about our insensitive and drugged conscience? This radicalization of abomination seems deliberately to focus on children, who are an expression of the future and hope of the nations and carries with them a meaning that cannot be labeled as a conflict of civilizations. It is something more complex: ideology becomes the driving force behind a state neo-formation that gathers new followers, drawing in full hands from the general discontent within which the new generations are placed in the areas of crisis and showing themselves as the only interlocutor, active and decisive, in areas where political, ethnic and border confusion is the only certainty. In this scenario the exasperation of violence, in its most atrocious and incomprehensible forms, represents an instrument of communication itself, through which to send the West a clear message of capacity, determination and strength. Involving children - be they victims of attacks, sex slaves or baby soldiers - is the greatest expression of this strategic plan, because touching children touch the deepest cords of the social and historical consciousness of democratic countries. The migrant emergency is the port point, among other things, of the absence of a European strategy. It is precisely from this reflection that it is clear that the scenario within which the motion under consideration has been adopted has changed. As I said, the scenario has worsened especially in terms of urgency in the protection of child abuse. All this requires a revision of the approach and instruments of intervention in general, but in particular of the protection of minors, especially if one of the most delicate reflections of the tragedy of terrorism is the influx of unaccompanied minors into Europe, which is one of the most sensitive aspects of the emergency of migratory flows. According to Eurostat data, in 2014 the unaccompanied minors landed on the Italian coast were 7.831 and in the first two months of 2015, of the 7.883 migrants who crossed the Mediterranean one in ten is less. The phenomenon of the extraordinary flow of unaccompanied minors on national territory cannot be separated from the treatment of the tragedy of childhood in the areas of crisis, since it is its natural evolution. We should also take this into account in a possible joint motion to be reached following today's discussion. At the moment, the priority of the international community should therefore be a renewed strategy to combat terrorism that starts from different instruments that can adapt to the evolution of the strategies of communication and implementation of the terrorist plan by the most ferocious groups and that, at the same time, is oriented to the stabilization not only political, but also social of the sensitive territories theater of the bloody action of these groups. There is no discussion here about whether or not to intervene militarily. I want this to be clear, otherwise the whole debate would be reduced to the usual case between interventionists and non- interveners. We stand far beyond the geopolitical diatribes and the disintegration of borders, having to place ourselves in a perspective of indispensable protection of the rights of children and children, who cannot be sacrificed on the altar of any other priority. The most serious risk is that of the inexorable degradation of the very roots of our system, with the inevitable consequence of a victory of barbarity over the evolution of human rights. With the motion - and those tabled by my colleagues, who are basically similar in terms of highlighted elements and urgent requests - we ask for a clear position from the Government, which is a spokesperson in the appropriate forum for decisive steps and valid initiatives. Firstly, we call for the attention of international partners, in the appropriate fora, of the seriousness of what has occurred to the detriment of minors in the territories controlled by the Islamic caliphate of ISIS and in the areas under the control of Boko Haram in Nigeria, as well as in all areas where fundamentalist drifts of terrorist matrix are detected. It calls for intervention strategies to combat the degeneration and barbarism put in place by the jihadist groups to the detriment, above all, of children; to give impetus, at European and international level, also through the active involvement of international organisations, to initiatives aimed at deepening what has been denounced by the UN and the creation of channels of help and support for children in the areas affected by the violence. A final reflection deserves to be made: childhood violated in its sacredness and profaned with dramatic and exasperated gestures, with the sole aim of spreading terror and bending a territory to a Diktat, imposes a lifting of consciences and a moral obligation on those countries that still have the ambition to proclaim themselves democratic that goes far beyond the simple and fruitless proclamations of indignation but that can identify itself in a valid and shared strategy. Italy, because of its geographical-logistic connotations that expose it as a land of port and transit of terrorists - as the current situation is highlighting - cannot afford to linger further and, in contrast, it needs to stand up as spokesperson for a firm and resolute initiative through which to give form and implementation to principles that are unavoidable and inalienable around which we have built our democracy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Divine Senator to explain motion 435.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u39	Madam President, we are starting from something that has literally disconcerted us. I refer to the report by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child. The report examines and defines the dramatic condition in which children and minors live in the occupied territories both in the so-called Islamic State and in northern Nigeria. I would like to remind you that the situation that describes the report dates back to February 2015. These are the only data we have available and we can think that the situation today is far worse. The Committee describes this as a huge tragedy involving thousands of minors in the areas of Iraq and Syria and, above all, children belonging to minority groups such as Christians, Yazidis and Shiites. The report indeed denounces many cases of mass execution supported by recent findings in territories reoccupied by allied forces to the Syrian and Iraqi Government. Common graves have been found testifying to genocide and mass executions. The relationship continues with denouncing beheadings, crucifixions of children and burials of living children, things that make the skin cling to reading. All these barbarism are not little known; indeed, the so-called Islamic State has published a handbook, freely accessible on the Internet, which illustrates everything that is happening in those territories. Nigeria's situation is not very different: the barbarism perpetrated against the weak, defenceless and minors at the hands of the militiamen of Boko Haram, a terrorist group of kanuri ethnic groups, which operates mostly in northern Nigeria, and which recently had a connection and affiliated to the so-called Islamic State, similar to which it has equipped itself with modern communication systems, through which to transmit its businesses, through the multimedia channel Al Urwa al Wuthqa. Boko Haram has promoted countless suicide attacks, always involving minors, mostly girls, forced with threats to be exploded, despite them, in the most crowded places. The international community has not responded to what is happening. We have been limited to mere manifestations of indignation or a little more. We have seen - alas - the videos of the executions carried out by the caliphate, especially to the detriment of foreign citizens, in which the international community does not seem to have adequate instruments of control or struggle. We believe it would be useful to make a clear separation and to prevent the action of these terrorist groups from being able - as it seems - even to benefit from the support of some sovereign state. We must ensure that the regional powers of the Middle East can be able to exert pressure towards the so-called Islamic State, its partners and its allies. Similarly, it will have to work with northern Nigeria and the North States, which are able to exert some conditioning, reducing as much as possible the operational capacity of Boko Haram. Consequently, the priority of the international community must be to define a common strategy for combating terrorism, in parallel with a political stabilisation of those territories: one thing obviously also requires the other. Therefore, with this motion we ask the Government first of all to draw the attention of all international partners to what is happening and is being perpetrated to the detriment of minors in those territories, by Boko Haram in northern Nigeria, or by the so-called Islamic caliphate. We also call for us to operate in the most meaningful way possible by exercising a moral suasion towards the governments closest to these countries, so that they may influence the behaviour of these two organizations. We also ask to give impetus to initiatives that lead to the ascertainment of the facts - we know something, but not yet everything - by activating all the tools of help and support of children in those territories. We would also like the Government to have more appropriate tools to identify those responsible for these crimes against children, including the possibility of referral to the International Criminal Court. Then we have a moral obligation to Christians living in those areas. We also need - in our opinion - to consider the possibility of including in our law the crime of attempted genocide, in the event of indiscriminate massacre of minors belonging to religious minorities, to be able to be challenged to persons detained in Italian territory, suspected of having participated in massacres committed also abroad, of which people under eighteen have been killed, deliberately killed because of their belonging to a confessional minority. This is the minimum obligation we have, to give support to Christians vexed and martyred in countries where they are - alas - minority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u40	I call Senator Liuzzi to explain motion No 436.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u41	Madam President, there is an acronym that is now up to date, for the denunciation of the large number of violence, abuse and abuse perpetrated on children or with children from all over the world as their protagonists. And today it is more known than it has been so far in the world. I am referring to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (CRC), which stands for Convention on the Rights of the Child. In February 2015, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child released new information on some brutal practices that the so-called Islamic State (ISIS) implements against children. This report shows that Iraqi children are kidnapped and subsequently sold as sex slaves and others are crucified or even burned alive. Other children are used as suicide bombers, especially children with disabilities, or are used as human shields at the target sites of the United States attacks. This has now reached significant levels. In all this there is such a degree of aberration, a shocking state of dismay for liberal, democratic cultures, based on respect for principles, human dignity and human solidarity. It is the whole West, Madam President, that is invested with its full wealth of electoral sensitivity and civil conquests. It is a shock for our centuries-old certainties and for the maintenance of the law that over the centuries has made itself a guarantee for the weak, for the small and for the marginalized. Individual freedoms that are indispensable, inalienable, always to be defended and valorized daily. It must be done for us and for all the peoples of the Planet; to do so and continue to do so as a right to freedom for our children and for all the children and children of the world. Returning to Iraq, Iraqi militias fighting ISIS also use minors as soldiers. The cruelty now commonly perpetrated by ISIS does not only distinguish the behaviour and actions of the jihadists of the so-called caliphate, but they are also characterizing other terrorist groups and organizations, such as Boko Haram in Nigeria, responsible for heinous crimes against the weakest people and, therefore, even children. Terrorist radicalisation finds its drive, as well as extreme religious fundamentalism, also in the grabbing of power above all economic in areas rich in natural resources, but very poor in the redistribution of wealth and irreverent in the quality of life of those populations. The motion that we Conservatives and Reformists submit to the attention of this Assembly commits the Government: to call on European and international partners to fully respect the International Convention on the Rights of the Child signed by all UN member countries excluding Somalia, South Sudan and the United States; to invite, at the next European Council, all member countries to the creation of a European Committee on the Supervision of the Full Respect of the Rights of the Child; to involve non-profit associations operating in the territories in order to create channels of aid and intervention to try to stem this phenomenon that offends human dignity. Finally, in the field of diplomatic initiatives on a broad spectrum and international relations, it commits the Government to invite countries where companies also operate in the territories afflicted by terrorist organizations to promote, similarly to Italy, the same initiatives of protection. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Lucidi to explain motion No 443.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will present motion No 443 and I would like to stress that this illustrative speech has been prepared by an activist of our Movement, Cristian, whom I thank for his commitment and the passion he has put in writing these pages. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] History will judge the moral, concrete and political commitment of this Government for what happens in armed conflicts in Asia, Africa, South America, and a few hundred kilometers from us, in the Middle East, and also in neighbouring Ukraine. We can paraphrase the question of the Patriarch of Christians of Baghdad Louis Raphael Sako, who asks - addressed to the United States and the UN - where are the Americans who invaded Iraq, changed the regime and announced that they would bring human rights, democracy and freedom; where is freedom; where is democracy. And he says that now we must maintain this great project and allow all the citizens of Iraq to live dignifiedly. In the Syrian area and in the areas between Iraq and Turkey in particular, the dramatic condition of civilians sees in its weakest section, consisting mainly of women and children, the deprivation of all forms of law: women are imposed rules of submission and segregation; they are punished in the event of violations with stonings or hangings. The girls, already from the age of thirteen, must follow all the dictates imposed on women. Moreover, the forced marriages of the latter with ISIS fighters are on the increase, or are sold as sex slaves, thus repeatedly suffering heavy sexual and psychological abuse. Children are even crucified, buried alive, abused and used even for war purposes and are often used in the first rows of fighting and, frequently, transformed into children-bombs: a scenario that defines dramatic is little. The UN Convention provides that the Committee on the Rights of the Child is to examine the progress made by the States Parties in the implementation of the obligations arising from the Treaty. The UN Committee can and must ask the States Parties for any additional information on the application of the Convention, although it is aware that there can be no quick solutions for what appears to be a generational challenge, which must be countered with political will, economic resources and a willingness to challenge the ideas and attitudes that are driving the expansion of this phenomenon. We must not allow this Government's passive observation to make Italy an accomplice. The caliphate continues to expand showing that it has understood the lesson of the so-called Arab Spring, making its own those avant-garde communication techniques such as the use of social channels, videos and promotional magazines. In this wake of media terrorism, the Nigerian group Boko Haram, who uses a multimedia channel through which images and videos of minors employed in military training practices are shown. The UN reports highlight a clearly critical and worrying humanitarian situation and the protection of human rights. Children, Christians, Muslim brothers, the environment, art and history, even when they appear to be harmless, are seen and treated with the aim of eliminating any nuance of human, religious, cultural and artistic dignity other than that brought by Islamic militias. All this translates into crimes against humanity, such as the reduction in slavery, rape and sexual violence or of any other nature, the exploitation in every possible way and the limitation of all those freedoms, intellectual and material, undeniable for man and now recognized by the international community for years. The UN Committee urges, for example - and urges the Iraqi State - to maintain international obligations based on the duty of protecting human rights within the country at all times and to take urgent measures to stop violence against civilians and children. In addition, it calls for the establishment of a section on the protection and protection of minors beyond the High Commissioner for Human Rights in Iraq. It highlights, among other things, the importance of swiftly and without delay implementing strict laws against extreme gender discrimination that affect women from the earliest stages of their lives, exposing them frequently to domestic violence, sexual and psychological abuse. The UN Committee urges the State to take all necessary measures to save them and ensure those responsible for justice, as well as to provide assistance to children who are freed or saved from slavery or kidnapping. Compared to the European Parliament's resolution of 12 February 2015, I recall a series of stimulus actions to partner countries that deal with various aspects that will also be part of our requests for commitment to the Government: for example, a tough stance against the abuses committed by ISIS against children, keeping humanitarian actions separate from military and anti-terrorism actions, trying to respect international humanitarian law as much as possible. Member States are asked to address urgently the serious situation of women and girls in Iraq and Syria, where they suffer heavy abuse, which would require adequate medical and psychological assistance as well as financial assistance. International humanitarian agencies active in Iraq and Syria, including UN agencies, are invited to increase the provision of medical and advisory services, including psychological care and care, as well as access to education. Finally, the request by the Human Rights Council to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to send a mission to Iraq as a matter of urgency to investigate the abuses and violations of international human rights law committed by ISIS and associated terrorist groups is supported. Addressing a child protection policy in those places also means addressing the interests of so-called Western citizens, who are indirectly benefiting from the action of multinational companies which, for example, in Nigeria profit from the extraction of raw materials. 80% of Nigeria's income depends on Niger's delta and oil royalty. This huge flow of money, combined with the practice of private armies in defense of the interests of the companies, has triggered violence at all levels and minors are the first, but not the only victims of this undue interference. It should therefore be recognised that there is a western responsibility for the obligation to act in the protection of the environment, resources and therefore of men, women and children, given the absence of specific policies for the protection of minors, women or the elderly in areas of war. This context must involve the Government, through international organizations that must involve moderate Muslim friends, which we recall to be 1,600 million, to promote in Europe the conclusions drawn from the UN through the full implementation of the aforementioned resolutions and reports, aimed also at international organisations, to develop strategies of intervention that go beyond the armed intervention to counter the jihadist groups in their actions to the detriment of children and women, especially as regards their characteristic of youth recruitment through the specific use of media and social networks, to involve international partners in the implementation of a code of conduct, for multinational companies investing in countries with unstable democratic institutions (just like Nigeria), which also provides constant information on the activities carried out, with particular attention to local groups that carry out surveillance tasks for structures and installations. Furthermore, the Government undertakes to initiate a policy of cooperation with the Nigerian Government and the UN aimed at improving the health conditions and access to schooling, especially for children, through a constant increase in royalty intended for this purpose and collected by the cooperating countries in the percentage of projects for the peace and protection of minors, to verify whether through the Red Cross and the International Red Crescent or Caritas it is possible to facilitate in cases of orphans under the age of three years, even with minor and amending disabilities for health reasons, international adoption in the courts for minors to connect the applications for adoption of Italians, thus avoiding further violence and giving them a family. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u43	We greet the students of the Istituto scuola "Leonardo da Vinci" in Belluno. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause]] We also greet the students and students of the Institute of Higher Education "Filippo Juvara" in Syracuse. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u44	Madam President, this is the subject of the motions put forward by my previous colleagues and on which we are obliged to keep a constant reflector on. Mr Lucidi is right: in one part of the world violence, cruelty, acts against human rights universally recognised not only by our domestic constitutions, but also by the European Union, of which we are an integral part, and by the United Nations Organization, which has ensured that the world goes, through a path of common peace, towards another dimension of non-war, after the end of the Second World War, thanks to a mechanism of joint protection, inviolable and insurmountable, of fundamental human rights. Human rights that, in an ever-widening portion of the world, are constantly violated; a portion of the world that is now systematically inhibited. We must take account of the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a part of the world that we can no longer associate with and know why it is in the hands of an Islamist fundamentalism and a terrorist exorcism that prevents us from thinking of it as a part of the world characterized by basic presuppositions of civil democratic coexistence. On whom and what mainly affects this democratic suffering, this vulnus to democracy? It impacts on the weakest categories, which are in the hands of terrorism, which, starting from the African continent - and we have seen it, alas, through dramatic episodes that there is no need to remember because unfortunately they are printed as a film in the minds of all of us - penetrate Europe, in the Western world, in Brussels, in Paris, in Madrid. We have, alas, a cahier de doléances and a category of suffering, disasters, terrorist crimes, which tend to be constantly increasing. All this unfortunately has a starting point: the cancer of Islamist terrorism, the ISIS, or Daesh that you say you want, that, like all cancers and viral diseases that spread very quickly throughout the world, takes on different faces and aspects. What we have examined, and the previous speakers have mentioned, has a particularly disturbing and dangerous aspect, and it is Boko Haram, a terrorist movement, of Islamist religious fundamentalism, but also with a vocation and a project of an economic political character, which operates in Nigeria, through the agglomeration of Sunni movements, Salafists, Wahabites who, starting from an apparent common religious denominator, aspire to the conquest of the Western world. Unfortunately, we saw him, because, alas, one of the cutthroats we found among the associates of the Brussels bomber, Salah Abdeslam, was just a Nigerian from Boko Haram. What interests us, which my party wants to represent in this motion, to which we would like to give national, European and global parliamentary antibodies, is the unworthy and unworthy exploitation, by pornography of pain, of the weakest category of all, that of children, of minors. We know that there are training camps in Syria and Iraq where Daesh has become, as I said before, a cancer or a viral disease. I would not know which of the two pathologies to indicate as more appropriate, because they are both attached to a force that wants to destroy the world through the vague reflection of widespread and circulating violence, through absolutely unthinkable and unpredictable categories such as children and women, who often, despite them too, are used (the famous doves) stuffed with explosive material, forced to murder to enter into slavery within these criminal organizations. You know that children aged six to ten are forced to shoot, to kill, to be enslaved in this way by the criminal organizations themselves. They are forced to fill themselves with explosive material and to carry out suicide attacks, at best they are forced to be used as informants, they are trained and they themselves become still underage trainers. Precisely because the child psyche is used and exploited, they become the most ruthless and incommunicable killers. All this unfortunately characterizes a system that has seen in Boko Haram and Niger one of the most urgent points. Fortunately for some time now - and this we must point out with a more sign, as a point of success of the international contrast to terrorism in Africa, where it is born and has its external reflections towards the West and Europe - the contrast of the Nigerian national army against Boko Haram and the support of international organizations and militias that have allowed to contain this phenomenon have meant that the recognized boss of Boko Haram, Abubakar Shekau, on March 26 last, admitted his defeat, in this way recognizing a retreat of the terrorist organization of Boko Haram. But it is precisely in these moments, as usually happens when armies begin to retreat and withdraw, in the final part of bloody wars (as it has been, as it is and as unfortunately will be the war of Boko Haram terrorism in Nigeria and the world), that these forces become more dangerous: when they withdraw, they weaken and suffer strong shocks. 11:37 a.m. (BERNINI followed). It is for this reason that we strongly ask, especially for the protection of minors and children, that they are so strongly scarred in these contexts, that the international community not only does not go back, but puts in place positive and proactive actions. Many times we invoke the United Nations Organization and the Committee on the Protection of Childhood and Adolescence, as my previous colleagues have done; declarations of intent, system promotions are fine, but now as never before, now that a movement like Boko Haram has been struck, which represents a dramaticly negative example of international Islamist terrorism, precisely at this moment that we have weakened them we must inflict the final and definitive blow on them. This can happen through the toolbox that Europe provides, not only with the possibility to intervene through the darkening of the Internet sites, but also through the containment or at least the transparent rendering of the flow of funding that arrives (the famous money transfer on the contrary) in our countries precisely to finance international terrorism on site, here where it becomes more dangerous. All this must be made traceable, visible, contrasted and content also through computer tools that we are able to contain, control and censor (colleagues, when necessary we must also use this expression). Of course, we are asking - and we have already done so with other motions - for international intelligence operations to be undertaken to identify the perpetrators of these heinous crimes and once again to create triangulations, international multilateral tables in which Europe, the United Nations and African States sit, helping to counter Islamic fundamentalism, organizing positive actions to protect children and adolescents, not only through voluntary activities, but also through legislative actions to be reflected on individual national regulations, which guarantee the protection of children sacrificed by the system of international terrorism. Mr President, since my time is up, I would say that I can stop here, of course by referring to the text of our motion, which has been handed over, as it were, to the offices of the Presidency. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u45	I call Senator Mattesini to explain motion 472 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u46	Mr President, the war in Syria has been going on all over the country for five years now. The conflict with the self-proclaimed Islamic State, in various areas of northeast Syria and Iraq, seriously exacerbates the situation, resulting in repeated movement of population between the two borders and to Iraqi Kurdistan. Half of the Syrian population has abandoned their homes: refugees are estimated at about 4 million, while internally displaced people are about 8 million. The United Nations Humanitarian Affairs Office estimates that the number of people in need of assistance is increasing and corresponds to more than 12 million people, one third of whom live in areas that are difficult to reach from international aid. We are faced with one of the most serious humanitarian crises in the world, with over 5 million children and adolescents involved. And Syrian refugee children in neighbouring countries are joined by Iraqi children who are victims of the conflict in Iraq. Among other things, the various international relations, from the report of the United Nations Commission on the Rights of the Child of February 2015 to the annual report on the situation of minors in war zones, presented by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, confirm that the current conflicts are characterized by a total disinterest in the protection of civilians in general, with a particular violence against children. In fact, the conflicting parties have repeatedly violated international humanitarian law and have committed other serious violations and abuses of human rights. In this context, the drama that is found to live the minors in the scenarios of war has really assumed proportions that we can call apocalyptic, so much so that with increasing frequency are denounced cases of mass execution of children, with beheading, crucifixion, up to the burial of living children. This is a situation that calls chilling, to say the least. Added to all this is the drama of child soldiers, trained to fight since childhood, often used as human shields or as kamikaze, or engaged in the manufacture of explosive devices, to reach the practice of sexual slavery, which affects women and children. Added to the Syrian drama are the dramatic updates of the attacks of the Boko Haram terrorist group, active in northern Nigeria and responsible for atrocious violence against civilians and suicide attacks put into practice using more and more children, mostly girls. Just remember the massacre carried out at the beginning of last year, in January 2015, with the estimate produced by Amnesty International, which speaks of about 2,000 victims. And massacres like those continue in 2016. In addition to the data from previous colleagues, there is the huge number of refugees. We are talking about about 5 million refugees, of course in neighbouring countries and a substantial part also in Italy; it is a number certainly destined to increase in a full-bodied way in 2016: it is one of the largest populations of refugees from a single conflict that has occurred in recent years. We can say that we are faced with the greatest exodus of our era, which unfortunately involves children in large numbers. Coming to us, the estimates of Save the Children say that 40% of migrants arrived in Greece in February this year are smaller. The other element we need to take into account is that the Ministry's data show that unaccompanied minors who arrived in Italy at 31 December 2015 amounted to about 11.920, an increase of 13 percent compared to 2014. In addition to this large number of unaccompanied children, the figure for missing children is significant and worrying: 6,150 missing children from the host communities. The European intelligence agency, Europol, has also denounced the disappearance of at least ten unaccompanied minors after their arrival in Europe and the fear, perhaps even the certainty, is that a large part of them has fallen into the hands of criminal organisations and human traffickers. We are therefore talking about sexual exploitation, undeclared work, even organ trading. We have taken into account this rapid description of the situation (on which other colleagues have spoken for a long time) and we have tabled a motion which, recognizing the important work that the Government is doing, commits the Government to continue to support, both in Europe and internationally, including through international organisations, strong strategic action, including through the use of humanitarian corridors. The theme, in fact, is to bring international relief, but also to allow people to get out of those countries and get in safety. This, of course, in favour of the entire civilian population, but - I repeat - the data on minors tell us that there must be, as the international conventions call for, special attention to children who, both for the violence suffered and for their small age, are the most affected. At the same time, we call for the protection of minors and for this to be at the heart of every European response to the refugee crisis. This is also to strengthen and support the action of the Government so that, with respect to the role of Europe in the reception of migrants, it keeps the central point firm starting from children. We also call on the Government to continue to encourage efforts beyond SPRAR. There is, in fact, an important commitment, relating to the reception of minors who land on the Italian coast and who in any case come from us, to strengthen the SPRAR, but, always in this area, the Government also wants to commit itself to resorting to family care. Certainly there is a theme of community and reception, but we believe that this is an important point, because the family trust is the instrument through which our country aims, in addition to guaranteeing the refuge to unaccompanied minors and who are fleeing from the horrors of the conflict, also to allow the break of those ties with the jihadist environments, as well as the associated forms of recruitment. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u47	I declare the debate open. Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank all my colleagues, but especially Senator Mattesini, who has so precisely illustrated the tragedy that these populations and especially children are experiencing. I will not dwell on this, but I will try to focus the attention of the representative of the Government present in this House and of my speech on what we can do and what we are doing. I would like to focus my speech on this, urging, once again, as Senator Mattesini has just said, our Government's intervention on the preparation of humanitarian corridors for civilian populations torn apart by the atrocities of ongoing conflicts in the territories occupied by ISIS and Boko Haram. Just under a month ago one of the most established Italian historians, Marco Impagliazzo, wrote for "Avvenire" a truly enlightening editorial. The article was titled "Don't redo the curtain." Impagliazzo warned the Old Continent that the best answer, or at least one of the possible ones, to the crisis of refugees and refugees could be found in nationalist policies of perching and closing. In summary, the admonition, recalling Winston Churchill's famous words, referred to the idea of not giving in to the temptations and populist pushes aimed at responding to the increasing criticalities with Europe of walls and barriers, barbed wires and ruthless controls. The objective was to remember that there are political forces that are pushing for the creation of a new iron curtain that risks being dropped again on Europe, leaving out all those ideals and objectives that are the fulcrum of the principles and rights on which the democratic system of our country and of the entire European community is founded: peace, legality and solidarity. So far Italy has proved to be a welcoming and supportive country towards those who had and need help and assistance, first and foremost those of our Regions most exposed to migratory flows. Having said that, however, we can certainly not leave out the dramatic numbers, just said, with which we confront each other every day and which dramatically bring us back to the reality of over 3,500 men, women and children (there are over 800 of them) drowned in the Mediterranean Sea in 2015. In recent days - we remember - we have approved in the Senate the law establishing the National Day in memory of the victims of immigration. The law contains two priorities: to preserve and renew the memory of victims and - above all - within schools and in reference to younger generations, to form public opinion to solidarity with migrants and respect for human dignity and the value of each individual's life. In short, we need to work together with the whole community to create a reality of integration and acceptance. If the cornerstones of our reception system are therefore based on basic concepts such as inclusiveness and integration, solidarity and hope, acceptance and equality, the right to life and health, then it is necessary to activate and support every useful initiative to give national and international institutions that humanitarian distress without which our national and community identity is emptied of all meaning. The pilot project supported by the Community of Saint Egidio, the Federation of Evangelical Churches in Italy and the Waldensian Table, which last March allowed 97 Syrian refugees to arrive in Italy from Lebanon, was a concrete symbol of how to intervene preventively, save lives and avoid the so-called journeys of death. The good news, in a tragic era for migrations like the one we are experiencing, is that by the end of April, that is in a few days, 150 more will arrive in Italy through the path, supported by the Executive, safe and human of the humanitarian corridors, real possible meeting point between institutions and civil society and tangible instrument of integration. So far the experience of the humanitarian corridors has been self-financed by Italian organisations, to which I applaud the action taken and I hope that other European countries can be infected in this experience. This is an experience in which, first and foremost, all Italian institutions and our civil society must believe to export a model that can represent a turning point in the matter of solidarity, as Minister Paolo Gentiloni also reminded us a few days ago. Within this welcoming perspective, I would like to take this opportunity to recall the initiative of the organization Doctors without Frontiers that, in collaboration with the Association for Legal Studies on Immigration and the Association Medici against Torture, has opened in Rome, after the offices of Cairo and Athens, a rehabilitation center for migrants victims of torture and inhuman, cruel and degrading treatments. It is these signs that we need, palpable symbols of humanity and solidarity that flourish in our communities, perhaps far from the spotlight. On World Day of Migrants and Refugees Pope Francis reminded us how looking at these people does not mean focusing on the condition of regularity or irregularities, but - above all - seeing the human side of lives that must be respected and protected in their most intimate dignity. Solidarity and understanding are then the cornerstones on which Italian and European society, from an institutional and social point of view, can share. From this point of view, much passes by the strength and force with which to support projects, such as humanitarian corridors, unitedly. I conclude by pointing out that they really represent a concrete sign for peace and life, a symbol of hope and charity - let me add - against hatred and biech fundamentalist violence, a true whisper of humanity possible and absolutely necessary. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u49	Senator Elena Ferrara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and representatives of the Government, with conviction I have signed the first-signed motion Mattesini, whom I thank, because I believe that the activation of humanitarian corridors for minors and women fleeing from countries in war is no longer postponed. We can no longer tolerate the systematic violations of human rights in the territories occupied by ISIS and Boko Haram, constantly denounced on several fronts and which I myself had represented in the Assembly, in February 2014, dealing with numbers and given the conditions of Syrian children. In those territories there are women belonging to ethnic and religious minorities who are kidnapped, raped and sold as slaves, children forcibly taken from their families to be indoctrinated to war or used as human shields, girls who suffer unspeakable destinies. These are alarming situations, which we constantly monitor throughout the Commission's human rights. According to UNICEF there are 5,600,000 Syrian children still present in their country of origin, devastated by a war that has lasted since 2011; while another 2 million have fled to neighbouring countries. Children alone account for 36% of migrants on the run. The data confirm, once again, that the only option is to face long journeys in search of peace and a normal life. It is an obligatory choice, which has particularly dramatic implications. Only in 2015 were 700 minors who lost their lives in the waters of the Mediterranean, on the voyages of hope; 80 of them fled from the war in Syria. On October 3, 2013, they died in a single tragic episode, which took place in front of the shores of Lampedusa. And we did well to remember it, setting up a memorial day. The photo of Aylan, which we have already mentioned, has become a symbol of a desperate exodus, a powerful icon, able to move the consciences of most of Europe on the theme of reception. Now, however, we must not and cannot allow that same photographic shot to become the manifesto of our impotence. Only a few days ago Amnesty International reported that the Turkish authorities have been illegally repatriating thousands of Syrian refugees since January. These are men, women (also pregnant) and children. These are serious news, which emerged on the eve of the first expulsions provided for by the EU-Ankara Agreement, which entered into force last Monday and on which the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the main NGOs have expressed many concerns both for the lack of protection against migrants and for the detention of asylum seekers. The agreement, which was also at the center of the last hearing in the Human Rights Commission yesterday of the Association for Legal Studies on Immigration, which has revealed a series of critical issues: first of all the concrete risk that in Greece - a country that has just amended the legislation on asylum applications - a mechanism for summary assessment of applications will be implemented, leading to a rapid declaration of inadmissibility and, therefore, to a series of forced transfers. It is a drama in the drama that calls on Italy to express itself on the content of the agreement and we parliamentarians are at the forefront of these responsibilities. These situations deserve the utmost attention, but above all concrete answers. Compared to other European realities, our country, even with the critical issues we know, has shown the will to welcome, thanks to the vast network of services offered by the institutions, organizations and associations that operate on the territories. But it's not enough. According to the latest report on the reception of migrants and refugees in Italy, released last October by the Viminale, the unaccompanied foreign minors received on the national territory were 14.378, 5.434 of which however are unavailable. These figures draw an unacceptable reality, which must be fought immediately by creating humanitarian corridors, so that at least children can no longer be in the hands of human traffickers and organized crime. Mrs Padua recalled that, as a genuine pioneer, the Community of Saint Egidio, through a project dedicated to women, children, the elderly and the disabled, has already led 97 Syrian refugees to Italy and is preparing to receive 150 more by April. Trafficking in human beings, one of the issues at the heart of our commitment to the Human Rights Commission, which in February dismissed the latest report on the Identification and Ejection Centres, also affects very closely women fleeing from the areas where Boko Haram is raging. It is thought that, according to a report of the International Organization for Migration (IOM), in the last three years almost 7,000 Nigerian women have landed in Italy, 5,000 of which only in 2015. Among these are about a thousand minors. These are young and very young people who, in most cases, do not even know the risks they face leaving their lands, deceived by false prospects. Tearing away these bodies and souls from criminal organizations means offering them a secure welcome to give them a real hope of a better life. It should be stressed that, with regard to the Syrian situation, there is a change of pace in the reaction to Boko Haram with 11,600 hostages released in the last month and recovery programmes for these hostages. In this respect, too, the bill by Mr Sandra Zampa, Vice-President of the bicameral commission for children and adolescence, which is being discussed in the House of Deputies, which provides for certain funds for the reception of children, so that only the municipalities do not have to take responsibility for it. It is a measure that also pays more attention to training, as well as to the ways of entrusting and supporting social inclusion. Many good practices are being activated, but they are not of system: therefore, the criticalities persist in the phase of intercepting the child and starting protection paths. These are increasingly urgent measures, which find complementarity in the guidelines of the new National Plan for Children, which we approved last month in the Bicameral Commission for Children and Adolescence and in the Fund against Child Poverty Education, funded by the last law of stability and on which, precisely these days, an important conference was held, at the Library of the Senate, with the organisation Save the children. In this event we shared even more the need to make synergy in order to activate paths of educational enhancement in the municipalities and territories where the presence of foreign minors of recent immigration is stronger, so that the reception can go hand in hand with integration and promote inclusion. For all these reasons, we strongly urge the Government to commit itself, at European and international level, to the activation of humanitarian corridors and to guarantee the protection of minors, including through family care, as proposed in the motion. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u51	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u52	Mr President, on motion 1-00379, first signed by Senator Di Biagio, I am in favour. On motion 1-00435, first signed by Senator Divina, I am in favour of some rewordings, of which I read. In the second paragraph of the provision, I call for the words "may" be replaced by the words "national" or "national" to be replaced by the words "national" or "national" to be replaced by the words "national" to be replaced by the words "national" or "national" to be replaced by the words "national" or "national" to be replaced by the words "national" or "national" to be replaced by the words "national" or "national" to be replaced by the words "national" to be replaced by the words "national" to be replaced by the words "national" to be replaced by the words "national" to be replaced by the words "national" to be replaced by the words "national" to be replaced by the words "national" to be replaced by the words "national" to be replaced by the words "national" to be replaced by the words In the third paragraph, I would like to delete the words 'excluding' to 'Western'. In the fourth paragraph, again of the disposition part, I ask to replace the words "to activate" with the words "to support" and to add the word "gravi" after the words "responsible for" and the words "to activate" after the words "to provide" subsequently. I propose that the fifth paragraph be deleted. On motion 1-00436, first signed by Senator Bonfrisco, I am in favour, with some rewordings, of which I read. In the first paragraph of the provisional part, I call for the word "subscribed" to be replaced by the word "signed" and for the words "subscribed" to be deleted from "excluding" to "United States." In the second paragraph, I propose to delete the words 'on occasion' to'minor' and to replace them with the words 'European partners' to strengthen the existing supervision within the framework of all bodies responsible for the protection of the rights of minors'. In the fourth paragraph, I propose to replace the words "to invite" to "to work" by the following "to continue to promote, in the appropriate multilateral contexts, the accession of enterprises" and to replace the words "to work" to "to work" by the words "to the existing international instruments for environmental protection." On motion 1-00443, first signed by Senator Lucidi, the opinion is in favour, with some rewordings which I read. In the second paragraph of the provision replacing the words "to be promoted in the European context of full implementation" by the words "to continue to support European initiatives in line with the "to be continued." In the third paragraph, delete the words "intervention" and replace the words "to counter" with the following words "direct to counter": Consequently, the paragraph reads as follows: "to develop strategies that go beyond armed intervention, aimed at countering jihadist groups in their actions to the detriment of children and women." In the same paragraph, delete the words "especially" to the words "characteristic" and amend the remaining part of the paragraph as follows: In particular, the recruitment of young people through the specific use of media and social networks, including targeted initiatives to combat violent extremism, will be carried out. In the fourth paragraph, replace the words: "A suitable legislation to be adopted by the following: "A suitable national regulatory framework for the purposes of ""." I propose that the fifth paragraph be amended as follows: It shall publish within six months from the date of availability of the Final Observations of the new monitoring report of the Committee for the Rights of the Child and to urge its widespread spread in our country. In the sixth paragraph replace by the words "call" until the end of the paragraph by the following words "to continue to support the work of the Committee on the Rights of the Child so that it can have, in particular through the periodic monitoring reports, a more comprehensive overview of the protection of children's rights, especially for the situations mentioned in the above mentioned sections. In the seventh paragraph replace by the words "to exercise the State authority and the powers of shareholder within" at the end of the paragraph with the following "to continue to raise awareness among multinational and Italian companies in order to comply with the principles of corporate social responsibility (CSR), taking - among other things - also account of UNICEF children's rights and business principles, including the dissemination of any useful information about their activities in Nigeria." In the eighth paragraph I propose to replace the first part with the following words: "to continue to promote in the appropriate multilateral contexts the accession of enterprises to existing international corporate social responsibility instruments and to delete from the word "to involve" until the words: "the plants". In the ninth paragraph, I propose replacing the words "to start" with the following "to continue a policy of cooperation with the Nigerian Government, through the bodies of the European Union and the UN, aimed at improving health conditions and access to schooling, especially for children, and to delete from the word "through" until the word "minor." On motion 1-00468, the opinion was in favour of the following rewordings. In the first paragraph, delete the word "normalization" and replace with the words "peace and stability" of the countries threatened by Daesh and "strengthening" and delete the words "from ISIS and "from" and "from" before the words "Boko Haram" are added. In the second paragraph, replace the word "treatative" with the word "initiative" (i.e. "initiative"). In the third paragraph, delete from the words "to avoid" until the word "comparison" by amending the paragraph as follows: "to support, in agreement with the other Member States of the European Union and the United States of America, initiatives to combat violent extremism at all levels." In the fourth paragraph replace the words "to set up an international table," involving the following "to support international initiatives," in collaboration with "to." In the fifth paragraph replace by the words "to undertake" up to the words "international" with the following "to support the initiatives" and the word "to be implemented" with the following "perpetrated." Amend the sixth paragraph as follows: It shall support the efforts of the United Nations to protect minors and infants who are victims of the above-mentioned violence, including possibly by sending a United Nations peace mission, if the conditions are met. In the seventh paragraph replace by the words "to undertake" until the words "front" are replaced by the following: Continue the activities aimed at promptly obscuring websites that promote violence and religious fundamentalism, in implementation of Decree-Law No. 7 of 2015, converted with amendments by Law No. 42 of 2015, and undertake urgent initiatives that promote stricter controls at borders. Finally, to delete from the word "reintroduce" until the words "our country" are deleted. Finally, I am in favour of motion 1-00472 (text 3). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I ask Senator Divina if she accepts the proposal for the rewording of motion 435.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u53	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u54	I ask Senator Bonfrisco if she accepts the proposal for the rewording of motion No 436.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u55	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u56	I ask Senator Lucidi if he accepts the proposal for the rewording of motion 443.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u57	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u58	I would ask Senator Bernini if she accepts the proposal for the rewording of motion 468.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u59	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u60	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u63	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are here today to highlight the moral obligation to draw the attention of Parliament and the Government to the sensitive issues dealt with in the motion tabled by the Conservatives and Reformists Group, together with other motions. I do not want to dwell on the many international treaties, among which the most recent is the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, dating back to 2011, or the historic Convention on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1989, which testifies to the formation of a global consciousness about the universality and inviolability of the rights of the weakest and the right to childhood. Unfortunately, sadly and always more frequently, we are forced to witness, powerless, repeated actions that, in total contempt of the sacredness of life - and especially of young lives - systematically violate the rights of millions of children. Childhood is regularly violated, unfortunately, and in different forms, in China, Russia, Thailand, Kazakhstan, Laos and Cambodia. They are states rich in natural resources, where Italian companies do considerable business, and known to the chronicles also for violations of civil and political rights, because often it is more the business than the freedoms of citizens. Then there are wars, with the Middle East devastated by the bloody contrasts between the most extremist and the most moderate Islam. Or there is Africa, where the tragedy of refugees - as we are well aware - reaches Italy, the Mediterranean, Europe. As always, it is the weakest parts - women, children and the disabled - that are more easily and brutally exploited, in countries where the intensity of armed conflict has reached levels of extreme violence, with a disproportionate and intolerable impact on these categories of people. In Syria, South Sudan, Central African Republic, but also in Somalia, Iraq, Afghanistan and other countries, thousands of children are recruited, killed, mutilated, raped, indoctrinated and forced to commit atrocities. What is most alarmed are the numbers. The use of kamikaze children is increasing and their age is decreasing. Humanitarian associations speak of 300,000 children under the age of fourteen on the various continents. From Boko Haram to Daesh, passing through the qaedist chains in Pakistan, Somalia, Palestine, Yemen, the horror of children-kamikaze is growing, enlisted by force and used as unconscious instruments of death. In particular, the Islamic State is not careful to train, use and - in cases of necessity - also to kill children, recruited by the preachers of hatred and attracted by the martyrdom offered by jihad. According to the UN Security Council, at least 700 children have been killed or mutilated in Iraq since January 2014, and are also victims of summary executions. Former teenage fighters told human rights group researchers how rebel commanders encouraged young people to run for suicide attacks. But it is not only the jihadist groups that use children and adolescents for acts of war and terrorism. The children are unfortunately fighting in the regular army in Burma, in the armed struggle against ethnic minorities, but they are also fighting in Chad, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Somalia, Sudan, Uganda and Yemen. Although most child-soldiers are male, girls also represent a significant number. About 30 percent of the world's armed forces employing child soldiers have girls in their ranks. They inform us of the reports of the most authoritative international agencies that the girls are first raped, then forced to fight or given as a wife to the officers as a prize for their value in battle. Thus, a sort of social order is created within the army for which military leaders are also at the head of families made up of wives-girls and children who are born are destined to increase the ranks of the fighters. The children who have just been kidnapped are also forced to kill other peers, in order to make them feel accomplices and to link them psychologically and indissolubly to the army. In the folds of these dramatic considerations about atrocities it becomes impossible not to recognize a lucid and disturbing radicalization program aimed at the youngest and most fragile minds, therefore projected to the future, in order to forge the next generation of jihadist terrorists to more bloody hell. On the front of Daesh's expansion campaign, in recent months the terrorist group has been very active in the continuous search for fresh recruits, often using technology and social media. Here the information and communication technology becomes involuntary accomplice and reveals to us men and women of 2016, who trust in the progressive mission of ICT, all the inadequacy and fragility of development without capacity for self-criticism, without brakes, to technological absolutism. Laith Abbas, a journalist, a former teacher of Mosul and human rights activist, said that the decision of the IS to wash the brain of Iraqi children is yet another tactic to transform the religious composition of the region through fear and coercion. In a style very similar to that of Nazi Germany, Daesh has organized internment camps in areas under his control, to train and re-educate thousands of Iraqi and Syrian children of all faiths. These children of the Islamic State have become the new victims of an aberrant form of mass religious indoctrination. Daesh not only wants to govern the region, but wants it to become the theatre for the representation of his ideology, using the pop discovery of Western research, the most democratic in theory: the Internet. For this purpose, he wants to settle in the minds of children, reshaping their system of certainties in the equality of human beings and dismembering their moral compass in accordance with dogma. Recently, an authoritative medical report on the effects of religious indoctrination on young people reports that physical and mental suffering, imposed to reshape the belief system, has long-term effects and causes asocial behavior, violence, psychosis, depression and late learning in young victims. And it couldn't be otherwise. For all the reasons outlined, the Group of Conservatives and Reformists considers it essential moral duty to try to raise awareness of the Government so that it takes action to take appropriate measures, aimed at safeguarding full respect for the inviolable rights of children. [[Applause from the LN-Aute Group of Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u66	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, it seems to me that the motions have been thoroughly and comprehensively illustrated, so there is nothing else to add. The scourge of terrorism is perhaps the greatest emergency that we are experiencing and that lives our time. These are genuine tragedies and barbarism of unheard of heinousness and, when they strike children, they are even more hateful crimes, if you can say so. We therefore trust the Government to be able to translate our exhortations into concrete acts, into something final. I therefore announce the North League's vote in favour of our motion, as the Undersecretary has just reworded it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u69	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, I will make a very brief explanation of vote, asking that I be able to attach the written text of my speech to the Reports of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). All the motions presented, on which I announce the vote in favour, as reworded by the Government, hope for a genuine mobilization of the international community against Daesh, which is no longer limited to general condemnations. But bombing is not enough and ground intervention is certainly not on the horizon. I believe that it would be necessary and urgent, first of all, to open safe humanitarian corridors and above all to help Iraqi Kurdistan, the only enclave in which there is democracy and respect for human rights, which already welcomes one and a half million Iraqi and Syrian displaced persons, and where children can find a safe haven. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u72	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I am speaking only to declare our vote in favour of all the motions tabled, in the hope and in the hope that an issue such as this can be dealt with and voted on with the broadest convergence of this Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u75	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I too will be brief and, if I may, I would ask you to attach the written text of my speech to the Reports of today's sitting. In my explanation of vote, I would have liked to include some further suggestions, which will still remain in the proceedings. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). I declare my Group's vote in favour of all the motions accepted by the Government, which I thank for the attention shown on an important and sensitive subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u78	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I also ask that I be able to attach the written text of my speech to the Reports of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. LUCIDES (M5S). I shall just make a brief explanation of vote on our position. We had already assessed every single commitment of each motion and had identified some points on which our vote could converge and others who did not see our favor. We accept some rewordings and, therefore, change our vote: we will abstain on the motions that we do not share in their entirety and we will of course vote in favour of our motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u81	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I ask that I be able to attach the written text of my speech to the Reports of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). As Forza Italia we will support our motion and also the others that contain precise commitments to the fight against terrorism and the protection of children's rights. I think it is worth pointing out how important it is for the civil world to fight the war on terrorism which began on 11 September 2001. We must not forget the massacre in North Ossetia, in Russian territory, when Islamic and Chechen fundamentalists killed more than 300 people, including 186 children. We must not forget the atrocities to which children are subjected: physical atrocities, crucifixions, beheadings, live buried children and kamikaze children. Therefore, I hope that there will be a commitment from everyone, from diplomatic channels and the UN, to protect children in real terms. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u84	VALDINOSE (PD). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues, in particular Senator Mattesini, who promoted this debate today in the Senate on the issue of the condition of children and adolescents in conflicts and migration and the need and urgency to give them protection and reception. After five years of war in Syria, we face a very serious humanitarian emergency. Due to the conflict in Syria about half of the population had to leave their homes and the country has fallen back four decades. The consequence is that 7 million Syrian children are reduced to poverty and nearly 2.5 million of them have had to find refuge in neighbouring countries. Let's think about it: all Syrian children under the age of five, or 3.7 million children, have known nothing since they were born but war with its load of violence, deprivation and extreme precariousness. According to UNICEF, more than 8.5 million children in Syria and neighbouring regions today need immediate assistance. Only in this country and only in the last year have more than 15,000 minors crossed the borders on flight not accompanied and separated from their parents. These are children who are, therefore, in a situation - as you can understand - of great vulnerability and subject to potential and very serious risks. I would also like to recall the fact - already mentioned by some colleagues - of the situation of unaccompanied minors in our country: there are about 12,000 and their number has more than doubled compared to that of the previous year. About half of these children flee the facilities. This is a growing phenomenon. A third of these are found, but we do not know the fate of others. Some of them may be able to reach other European countries to reunite with relatives and friends. I would like to stress this fact, because I think it is an additional and very strong reason to ask, today more than ever, for the Dublin agreements to be exceeded. It is clear that this overrun would lead to a radical decrease in the numbers of those fleeing to go to other European countries. It is clear that we are faced with a blatant and very serious violation of the rights laid down in the UN Convention. The first not respected is the right to life. Another right not respected is that of the child to be protected in case of war, protected or protected from any form of abuse, abuse or exploitation; to have special protection if he is without parents; to have special protection and assistance in case he is a refugee, for example if he comes from a country in war. Europe has a duty to help these children. We have a moral and political duty to take care of children and adolescents who come to Europe in search of peace and well-being, looking for a future. To this humanitarian emergency some European countries have responded with barbed wire, walls, closed trains, methods of identification through the attribution of numbers, beatings perpetrated by the same police forces. What we have seen and continue to see is happening in Europe and the images and news that come to us remind us of the tragedy of the Second World War, the deportations of the Jews and the lagers. That is why I believe that every opportunity, like today's, must be used to draw attention to this situation and denounce it; to raise public awareness and all the institutions; to ask everyone, starting from ourselves, for maximum commitment and responsibility. Today is an opportunity to ask our Government to continue even more forcefully to demand in Europe and internationally the protection of children and the respect of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. One point must be emphasized in this regard: the task and responsibility of welcoming and protecting the whole of the European Union is not only for individual countries which are affected by the exodus routes from time to time. The responsibility lies with the entire community of the European Union. It is a constitutive element of our civil coexistence to protect children, their safety and their dignity. That is why, in our motion, we have asked the Government to continue to work for a common and shared position on the very serious situation of children and to call for urgent action, in order to deal with this situation in our own Europe with the utmost determination. The most urgent resolution is to establish humanitarian corridors that will enable thousands of single children (the most vulnerable) and even those with their families to arrive safely and assisted. The protection of minors must be put at the heart of every European response to the refugee crisis. We must also support all initiatives, including through international organisations, aimed at ensuring help, assistance and protection for children. It is necessary to establish the methods and criteria for taking care of these people, of children first and foremost, of this childhood which we have the obligation and responsibility to protect and defend. In this context, we must continue to encourage, as an additional instrument of intervention, the use of the family care institution, which can allow protection and promote, beyond the necessary welfare, also a positive integration. Finally, I would like to add, to the commitments and issues raised in the motion I signed, as well as from myself, by many colleagues and colleagues of the Democratic Party, the invitation to proceed quickly to the approval of the draft law that is firm in the House, which addresses and proposes the revision of the system of protection and taken care of by unaccompanied foreign minors. I shall conclude, Mr President, by declaring the Democratic Group's vote in favour of the motion signed by many colleagues from the Democratic Party itself. Our commitment will continue on every initiative and action aimed at ensuring children and adolescents the right to live in safety and peace, the right to their own childhood. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u87	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to sign all the motions on child protection. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u90	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u93	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, at the cost of making myself uncomfortable, I would ask you to have all the cards of the senators not present drawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u94	I invite the secretary senators to check it out. There's one in the front row. Senator D'Alì, would you do me a favor and pull the card? I would say that we are improving spontaneously in this respect. Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 379 tabled by Senator Di Biagio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). (Indicating a card in a position where no senator is present, between the benches of the GAL Groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and CoR). You're clowns! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ciampollo, return to your place. Please extract the card. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 435 (text 2), tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 436 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 443 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 468 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 472 (text 3), tabled by Senator Mattesini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a moment of attention. For agreements between the Government, interrogators and group leaders, the session of 4 p.m. will not be held and the question phase will be brought forward at 2 p.m. As a result of the agreements, the Commissions are authorised to convene regularly. In the interests of those who wish to speak at the end of the sitting, we are now putting forward speeches on items not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u98	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, the majority of the Veneto Region discriminates and those who discriminate only show their weakness. Obviously, the appeal of Monsignor Moraglia, the Patriarch of Venice, was not enough, but not even that of Monsignor Scola, who is the Patriarch of Lombardy. Those who used these two eminent representatives of the Catholic clergy were harsh words, with which they said that urban planning cannot exist as an instrument of discrimination and segregation. What happens today in 2016 in Veneto resembles what happened in 1500 with the birth of the ghettos, and it took Napoleon to be able to clarify that humanity must live together without segregation. Just as it is the right of Catholics to build churches where they intend is useful or possible, in the same way, obviously, one cannot oblige those who profess a different religion, as in the case of Islamic religion, to build their own churches (so mosques) between the shopping centres, in the suburbs and far from the homes. It must be said that this is a matter of obvious ignorance. It would have been enough to ask Digos, the Carabinieri, the Security Services, to understand how today, relative to the risks associated with the extremist violence of ISIS, the issue does not concern mosques. The leadership of the mosques, the imams, practically all of them, today are constantly preaching against terrorism and in favour of peace and respectful coexistence. They collaborate in a daily and fruitful way with the police, act in voluntary associations and share the spirit of the Italian Constitution, which is the only lay Gospel that must guide legislative action both national and regional. Elsewhere lies the enemy that we would like to defeat together: on the Internet, in the outskirts that isolate themselves from peaceful Islam, in the discomfort - which we have seen for the perpetrators of the heinous massacres in Belgium and France - lends itself, in the underworld and, then, in a pseudo-religious violence. Those who marginalize mosques today in fact marginalize the Islamic world and obviously play the game of those who, on the other hand, have an interest in increasing mutual hatred and will for segregation. The Islamic communities have already said that they will impose the rule as soon as it is approved, because the Constitutional Court has already declared unconstitutional a similar rule of the Lombardy Region. Today, therefore, we are calling for the intervention of the Italian Government so that the conflict of competence and the failure to comply with the European legislation on the landscape can arise. Let's say no to the clash of religions in Venetian sauce. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u101	CASSON (PD). Mr President, thank you because you have anticipated what I wanted to say. As Vice-President of the Justice Commission, I would like to point out that the convening of the Justice Commission is scheduled for 2.30 p.m. and other Commissions are likely to have to vote at the same time. I therefore believe that your clarification of the Commission's authorisation to convene has been helpful.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u104	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I would like to take a few minutes to remind you that today, Thursday 7 April, World Health Day is being celebrated, which the World Health Organization wanted to celebrate its birthday. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is right to reiterate the world-wide focus on a very important issue, such as diabetes, on this Day. There is a scientific, cultural and social crusade and also a renewed political commitment that I believe is right for the institutions to decline to concentrate their legislative action on the regulatory, but also regulatory and regulatory, in order to give more impetus to what is a real pandemic, which not only engages researchers (licensed), but unfortunately involves more than 350 million people in the world, with numbers rising exponentially. The commitment that is to be made on this Day concerns the issues of prevention, the strengthening of care, surveillance activities and activities related to early diagnosis. In this sense, I would like to point out that just yesterday in the Senate Assembly - a similar initiative was taken also in the Chamber of Deputies - two bipartisan motions were presented to commit the Government to devote particular attention to those who, in the context of diabetic disease, represent a band of particular fragility, namely children. Diabetes at school, the need to ensure continuity of treatment and the administration of drugs are a challenge that this House must obviously also face. This is why the 81 signatures at the bottom of the motion presented with an urgent nature mark an appeal also made to the President of the Senate to be able to schedule it as soon as possible and to hand over to the debate of the Assembly a measure that the country is waiting for.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u107	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, as Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri said, the World Health Organization has decided that the protagonist of World Health Day today, April 7, 2016, will be diabetes, a silent disease that in its types (type 1 and type 2) can create serious problems for the health and life of people. I would like to emphasise type 1 diabetes, which falls within the category of autoimmune metabolic diseases and occurs predominantly in children. The management of type 1 diabetes, although it has always been the same disease, has changed dramatically over the last ten years. Ten years ago it was a disease that was often kept hidden for fear of discrimination; the treatment, i.e. the insulin dosage, was given by the doctor and remained unchanged for years. Today this world is fortunately changing thanks above all to the doctors and to the many Italian excellences such as the Meyer and the Child Jesus, but also to the new parents open to technological innovation and determined to come out more and more in society, certain that, only thus, they will be able to make their children grow serene and foster the acceptance of their own condition of life which, often, is a huge burden for themselves and their families. Today the treatment of diabetes 1 is more and more a complex of actions and evaluations that has a really strong dynamism, that adapts to every specific moment of the day, because the value of the blood sugar is not influenced only by what you eat - as typically happens in the diabetes of adults (type 2), for which the food rigor is very often the main cure - but depends on emotional states, physical activity, hormonal development. To date, dedicated glycaemic infusors and sensors are prescribed in agreement with the National Health Service, but there are still limits that should be reviewed. Research and technological progress can do a great deal; the Government and Parliament too. We are discussing the procurement code these days. We hope that we can go beyond the tendering tool and that the criterion will be clearly introduced in the award of contracts for quality and fitness care for medical devices, because each patient has his or her diabetes. Much can be done for the quality of life of children with diabetes 1, who are entitled to participate in an inclusive way in school and social life like everyone else. The Ministry of Health and MIUR with the National Joint Committee on Chronic Diseases and Drug Administration at School have done a great deal. The Committee's work resulted in a technical document shared by most patient associations, the Italian Society of Pediatrics, the Guarantee Authority for Childhood and Adolescence. For this reason, together with Senator Lettieri and 81 other senators, we presented the motion of which Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri spoke, that we hope it will be scheduled as soon as possible because the parents of children suffering from this type of diabetes expect from us a measure that makes their lives and their children more adequate and normal. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u110	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, in the Municipality of Città Sant'Angelo in Provincia di Pescara, especially in the three districts of Fonte Umano, San Pietro and Vertonica and Strada Giardino, repeated and frequent phenomena of micro-criminality, such as house thefts, are taking place in recent months, which are causing a great deal of concern within the resident citizens. These repeated thefts in the home by gangs of criminals have led the groups of families of these three districts to organize themselves also through means of computer communication to monitor the territory and launch alarms in case of recognized presence of suspects. Many families have even entered into contracts with the urban supervisory service. The criminals are even facilitated by the lack of control of the territory by the Forces of the Order on the weekend and in the evening hours, in which the local barracks of the Carabinieri substantially suspends their activity. Apart from a desirable and appropriate intervention of the local administration, the mayor and the municipality, which should intervene to enhance public lighting and video surveillance, I have addressed, in these hours, through the parliamentary question 4-05585, to the Minister of the Interior Alfano, who recently continues to report statistics in which it signals the decrease of the phenomena of microcriminality. I do not know if the statistics correspond to reality, but certainly do not correspond to the reality of Città Sant'Angelo in which there is instead an escalation of the phenomena of microcriminality. With this question I ask Minister Alfano what measures he intends to take to ensure the respect of private property and the security of citizenship in Città Sant'Angelo and if, in particular, he intends to strengthen the staff of the local barracks of the Carabinieri, perhaps extending its operation to twenty-four hours. With this act of inspection union I ask, finally, whether it is intended to promote, through the local prefecture of Pescara, the convocation of the Provincial Committee for Order and Security, to discuss effectively the most appropriate measures to deal with what is a real emergency in Città Sant'Angelo. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u113	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking for a very few minutes, because I would like to make it very clear to this House that the shorthand report of yesterday's sitting, 6 April, does not report in full what was said yesterday. This could open up to misunderstandings and justifications for an offense received. During the intervention of Senator Ricchiuti, in which he asked for the resignation of the television conductor Bruno Vespa and of the entire RAI group, I expressed aloud - perhaps even dictated by a fairly tense day - my point of view, but I do not find it in the Report, saying clearly: "Ask for the resignation of those who put Vespa there!" I had taken care, before the closure of the sitting of this House, to ask the shorthand officials to report everything. This is because my sentence was still a political reaction and was not a personal offense to Senator Ricchiuti. Vespa is a RAI employee and therefore has a boss: Field From the Garden and put it there and imposed it by the Renzi Government. The RAI is in the hands of the Renzi Government; therefore, the responsibility lies with the Renzi Government, which makes use of Chamberlains, as the senator had apostrophated. His reaction - "Gallina, shut up!" - revolted me was clearly an offense to my person. My comment - I repeat - was a political act, aimed at those who continue to give oxygen to a system that makes use of good servants. The Senator's offensive reaction has moved everything personal. I can imagine how bad it hurts to realize to be part of a majority supported by transversal systems quite embarrassing, but if we all think that the jester Vespa must resign we realize that the country stinks from the head [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] and that if such television informants resist over the years, at every color and every government, perhaps one should ask for the resignation of those who, always, offer to Italians a creeping one-way information, which has the name and surname: power. Having said that, I invite you to take note of what I have said, so that it remains in the shorthand reports, at least for those of today. I invite those who are scandalized by such enslaved journalists to look higher and avoid the free offenses. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u116	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, this is something I certainly wanted to avoid. I am not used to reading the "Corriere dello Sport" but before that some colleagues were commenting on it outside the Chamber and I could not help but listen and be dismayed by what appears in it today. Mr President, on the front page of today's Sports Corriere there is the magistrate Raffaele Cantone who says: They must give Higuain back to us. This is what today appears on the first page of the...Corriere dello Sport. The President of the National Anti-Corruption Authority also intervenes on the case of the day. Now, Mr President, without wanting to make a case, I believe that we also need to settle down and understand our roles and how we stand. It is normal for each of us to have a second sports life or other attractions beyond work, but it is also necessary to keep them in those canons and in those tracks. If the other day we had to listen to the Minister Boschi who compared the importance of the motion of distrust to that of a football match on Wednesday evening, to find the day after the main protagonist of the Italian anti-corruption that enters into sporting issues frankly makes us lose the sense of reality. Please, "San Cantone," let's avoid these exits. Do we need it? No. Instead, we need serious work on anti-corruption, which you can do and do well, and normal. Let Renzi appear on the "Corriere dello Sport" (Corriere dello Sport), but let me direct President Cantone: stay away from it. This is not good for your work, nor is it good for the credibility that all of us must give to the institutions. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u117	Senator Candiani, in fact sport has its own justice and this too must be guaranteed its own independence, beyond the various typhoseries. As has already been announced, the sitting is suspended. It will resume at 2 p.m. with questions. (The sitting was suspended at 12.57 p.m. and resumed at 4 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u118	The next item is the holding of questions. Question 3-02254 will first be put to the vote on advertising relating to funding for political parties. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u119	Madam President, Decree-Law No 149 of 2013 responded to the need to overcome the public financing model introduced by Law No 515 of 1993, which resulted in the mechanism of electoral refunds, stigmatized by the honourable Member for the lack of correlation with the corresponding expenditure incurred by the political formations for the election campaign. The regime introduced by the legislation on the abolition of direct public financing also has, with particular reference to transparency, governed by Article 5 (1) and (2) of Decree-Law No 149 of 2013 the obligation to make available the information relating to the statutory structure, the associative bodies, the internal functioning and the financial statements, including the accounts, as well as the obligation to publish on the Internet sites the statutes, the financial statements, complete with management report and additional notes, the report of the audit firm, as well as the minutes of approval of the report. As regards the publication of data relating to funding and contributions to parties, at the moment, it remains subject to the granting of consent, in accordance with the privacy legislation. In this regard, Article 5 (3) of Decree-Law No 149 provides that the obligations of publication on the official website of the Italian Parliament, as well as on the website of the political party, relate only to the data of the parties who have given their consent. To this end, the Guarantor for the protection of personal data has also issued a provision on the processing of data with political parties and exemption from the information for the purposes of electoral propaganda on March 6, 2014, in which it is specified that, except in cases expressly provided for by law (see, for example, Article 5, paragraph 3, of Decree-Law No 149 of 2013, as amended by Law No 13 of 2014, which provides for the obligation for parties to transmit to the Presidency of the Chamber of Deputies, in the cases provided for therein, the list of their sponsors), the communication to third parties and the dissemination of data relating to subjects who provide funding or contributions in favour of political parties, movements and other formations presuppose the consent of the interested parties. It appears, therefore, that Decree-Law No 149 of 2013, converted with amendments to Law No 13 of 2014, intended to dismantle the twenty-year-old mechanism of electoral refunds introduced by Law No 515 of 1993, albeit with the forecast of a transitional phase before the full implementation of the reform, which will operate in full regime in 2017 (when the payments of electoral refunds will be exhausted). In the interests of full implementation of the reform, the Chambers have approved Law No. 175 of 2015 amending Article 9 of Law No. 96 of 2012 and intervenes on the functionality of the Commission to guarantee the statutes and for the transparency and control of the statements of political parties. In fact, the guarantee Commission in question, in its communication of 30 June 2015, stated that it was unable to continue its work due to a shortage of staff and resources. Therefore, the aforementioned law is intended to make possible the work of the organism. Moreover, with regard to the overriding interest of the community in the transparent and economic management of public money and the proper functioning of the institutions, it is recalled that Decree-Law No 149 of 2013 introduced, in Article 3, the obligation for parties to transmit their statutes to the Member of the Guarantee Commission to carry out an extensive control of their substantive content. This condition has now been fulfilled by almost all the parties represented in Parliament at the beginning of the parliamentary term (as highlighted by the Commission's website for the guarantee of the statutes and for the transparency and control of the statements of the political parties, which issued the relevant certificates of conformity), but not by the movement to which the questioner belongs. This element must be the subject of reflection, because this condition has made it possible to make further progress with a view to achieving a high level of accountability. The position of parties or movements which are not subject to such control hinders the completion of such progress, since it prevents the verification and evidence of the consequent responsibility and the necessary transparency of the substantive rules on which the party or movement is based, which did not consider to deposit its statute. This political and institutional result is in line with the long and yet unfinished path aimed at the complete implementation of Article 49 of the Constitution, on which every Member of Parliament can exercise his or her right of initiative through the presentation of a draft law. For these reasons, the Government pays attention to the various legislative proposals presented to the Chambers, aimed at defining not only the economic and financial regime of the party system, but also the legal status of the parties themselves. This is something which, unlike what has been objected to by some political parties, is a prerequisite for the implementation of the constitutional dictation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u122	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I am shocked. Undersecretary Pizzetti poses a problem of consistency with the question to the 5 Star Movement that public funding does not receive and does not want. I'm really sorry. Thinking of removing public funding from the 5 Star Movement, dear Pizzetti, is like thinking of killing a mole by burying it alive. We're fine. I was asking for much more, and I was expecting much more in terms of consistency from the government. In 2012, as mayor of Florence, Matteo Renzi proclaimed that public funding for the parties was simply to be abolished and the 89 million euros per year given to the parties were to be used for the kindergartens. The same principle was to apply to the funding of newspapers: it would have been a sign of transparency and 200 million would have been saved for social purposes. In November 2014, as mayor of Italy as he likes to be called, he still insisted that they had decided to close the taps of public funding. False. They still changed the cards on the table, but the funding remained. These are the government's lies that blasphemers citizens with ads and alms and then squeezes the eye and shakes hands to lobbying with billionaire gifts. You, Secretary of State, confirm that those sums have been paid, that controls have not been carried out and that the citizens' will has been raped, because we have clearly voted to abolish public funding to parties and this will has been subverted only a few months later. The funding was disguised as an electoral reimbursement, but the Court of Auditors highlighted the trick: two billion of funding, of which just over a third really documented. To cover the blow, the Court of Auditors is under attack today. It is clear that people who investigate too much are being silenced and that a guarantee committee was set up at the media level to monitor party statements. But this Commission never saw - and the Secretary admits this - the amount of resources needed to work and was unable to carry out the task. Then the Boccadutri sanatoria intervened, with which you put a hood of omerta. The 5 Star Movement asked at least to give more time to the Commission, but the greedy coffers of the parties did not want to wait. We have proposed that at least the funds should be paid sub viously, i.e. that they should be paid out but, if irregularities were to arise, they could be withdrawn. That was not accepted either. While our entrepreneurs suffer from the inexorable cleaver of Equitalia and when they ask for credit they must first give guarantees, the parties must not give them even after. So, while our businessmen break their backs and are subjected to a ruthless check, when the parties come in tight, they blindfold the referee. The government had to make those acts available to the citizens, and not subordinate them to the will of the parties to make them available or not. He had to make them fully available: he would have found many examination committees that would have worked for free, spontaneously, in civic sense. But the government mocks transparency and with the usual English acronym, FOIA (Freedom of information act), has recently launched an alleged act on the right of information, but many and such are the conditions and exceptions that this act turns into a denial of a right, into a mockery where public administration can deny the answers simply with silence-didiego. And so it is enough to throw in the shredder the question in order to escape the obligation to answer. There's the government. The expression comes to mind: "I am sued" because the citizen remains, as the only possibility, to turn to the TAR, in the dark, without even knowing what the reasons for the refusal are. We have a self-referential and bold government towards its subjects and deferent, instead, towards the lobbyists. From the helpful calls of the Minister of Justice we have moved to the conflict of interest of Minister Boschi and then, recently, to the case of the Minister for Economic Development towards the oil lobby. Multinationals write the amendments and the government executes them, but that is not why it is called the Executive: it should carry out Parliament's will. We are here to ask that the data on the financing of parties be made fully available to citizens. But what can we expect from a government that, when it is asked to discuss mistrust, arranges when and how it suits it? That is why we have one more reason, on 17 April, to vote yes to the referendum.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u123	Following is the question 3-02306 on the classification of technical personnel in the management of the Sicilian Region. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u124	Madam President, Senator Di Giorgi's question seeks clarification of a competition for the recruitment of various professional figures banned by the Sicilian Region in 2000, which gave rise to a variety of appeals by the parties concerned. I would like to point out that - as is well known - the State's powers in the field of cultural goods located in the territory of the Region of Sicily are exercised by the Region itself pursuant to the decree of the President of the Republic No. 637 of 1975. The same applies to the recruitment of technical staff employed in activities related to protection. The Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism therefore has no competence in the case described in the parliamentary act of Senator Di Giorgi. However, in this Chamber, due institutional act towards the Senate and the interrogators, the information elements that, in this regard, have been provided by the competent regional council of the local autonomy and the civil service and staff of the Sicilian Region refer. The Regional Councillor for Cultural Heritage, shortly before the entry into force of the Regional Law of 15 May 2000, n. 10, has launched 19 competitions for titles only, of which 14 for 347 posts of former technical manager qualifications. The first competitions were completed, with the approval in 2003 of the relevant rankings, in view of the changed rules applicable to regional management under Regional Law No 10 of 2000, and it was considered appropriate to consult the legislative and legal office which, in its opinion No 1874 of 5 November 2003, issued the opinion that the classification procedure could not but fall under the new legislation which, under the terms of the rules, places in category D - management officials - the recruits holding the degree degree. This orientation, which was fully shared by the former regional department of the staff of the Presidency of the Region, led to the assumption, with classification in category D economic position 1, of the winners of the competitions in question. The above-mentioned framework has led to the emergence of a complex dispute, which has involved about 92 new recruits and which has developed in all the degrees of judgment, up to the Court of Cassation. The substantial legitimacy and correctness of the modus operandi followed with regard to the classification in the new regional roles of the winners of the competitions, banned before the abolition of technical roles, is now confirmed by the professional judiciary, including the Court of Cassation, which to date has hesitated 18 judgments favorable to the Administration for 34 applicants. The conclusions, right in this matter, expressed by the Court of Cassation in joined sections in judgment No 16728 of 2012 and confirmed by the working section of the same Court in judgment 1403 of 2014, can be summarized in the following points: first, the right of the winning candidate to assume the classification provided for in the notice of competition carried out by the public administration. Under the privatised public employment scheme, the organisational structure of the offices for which the notice had been issued is subject to the permanence, at the time of the adoption of the appointment order, with the result that the winners recruited as a result of the de quibus competitions could not claim the appointment in managerial qualification, put into competition, since no longer provided for by the reclassification of regional staff, carried out in implementation of Regional Law No 10 of 2000. Secondly, Article 5 (1) of Regional Law No. 10 of 2000 should be interpreted as exclusive rules governing the classification of personnel already in service at the entry into force of the law and cannot be applied to employees recruited under contests that are the subject of dispute, which were subsequently recruited. The following paragraph 3 of Article 5 of Regional Law No 10 of 2000 should be understood as an instrument of the legislator aimed at preventing new recruitments by the Region until 31 December 2003, with the only exception of those relating to competitions held before the entry into force of the law, without any reference to the legal regime of recruitments themselves. Third, for staff not included in managerial qualifications and for management staff, the determination of functional qualifications and criteria for the identification of professional profiles, distinguished in relation to the type of work performance, was formally carried out with the acts of general relevance, decree of the President of the Sicilian Region n. 9 of 2001 (and in other respects with other measure), with which the results of collective bargaining provided for in the first paragraph of Article 5 of the Regional Law n. 10 of 2000, with the consequence that the Administration to fulfil its obligation of recruitment could do nothing but include the winner of the competition in the non-directional qualification of apical level (the one with grade D), not having the possibility to create a further qualification, not having been facultyized by law (page 13 of the judgment of the Court of Cassation n. 16728 of 2012). On the point of the question concerning the difference of treatment between a very small number (6) of employees framed in managerial qualification, in due compliance with the judged unfavourable to the Administration, and the majority of the winners (86) framed in category D/1, in execution of the favorable decisions of the Court of Cassation, it is specified that the Sicilian Regional Administration has always operated with the defensive support of all the district lawyers of the State of the different Sicilian Provinces and of the General Notice of the State, to whose appraisals of fact and law has returned to every degree of judgment. In line with the provisions of the Court of Cassation on the matter, the above-mentioned situation leads to the conclusion that, among the different and non-homologable professional figures that characterize the new professional system of the employees of the Sicilian Region, the one as much as possible corresponding to the repealed qualification of technical manager - VIII functional qualification put into competition, is the category D of new institution, for whose access from the outside needs the prior possession of the degree. In this category, workers engaged in multi-specialistic activities, with technical, managerial and management content, and with important results and various production-administrative processes, should be included, in particular, as stated in the relevant declaration, professional figures of psychologist, engineer, architect, geologist to whom the figures framed in the pre-existing system among the technical managers referred to in the competition notices in question are similar.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u127	DI GIORGI (PD). Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your very detailed reply. Of course, the story is very sad for the people who have found themselves in the condition described, being already managers with an adequate salary in other administrations; they are people who have decided to participate in a competition banned by another administration, which in this case is that of the Region of Sicily, have won the contest and have found themselves, at the time of recruitment, having to give up the previous managerial qualification held outside. Of course, it is a choice they have made, but they could never have imagined that this story, which has been going on for fifteen years now, could end with such judgments, which I have listened with great attention and which place the Region of Sicily in a safe environment. The story remains, however, of people who have had part ruined their lives, losing the managerial role that many of them had in administrations outside the Region, having found themselves to have won a competition that in fact no longer guaranteed the level for which they had hoped to compete. I thank the Government for the answer and for the attention it has given me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u128	Following is the question 0-32705 on the safeguard of the archaeological site of Kaulon in Monasterace in Calabria. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u129	Madam President, Senator Molinari's question seeks clarification of the interventions that are being made for the urgent safeguard of the archaeological site of Kaulon. As was correctly reported in the parliamentary act, the site of ancient Kaulonia is located in the Municipality of Monasterace (RC), immediately north of Punta Stilo. Identifyed by Paolo Orsi, to whom the first excavations are due, the small Magnogreque town looked out over the sea and extended on the slopes of the hills behind, where the walls of the city ran. The Doric temple was soon acquired at the State property, while the contermine band of ancient settlement along the coast was acquired after 2000 by the Municipality of Monasterace. The state area and the municipal area constitute the Archaeological Park of ancient Kaulonia, which, together with the National Archaeological Museum, housed in a municipal property, was delivered in October 2015 by the Archaeological Superintendence of Calabria to the Museum of Calabria. The Park has no service facilities and no fixed staff. Its maintenance management is mixed. On the occasion of the serious tide that hit the Ionian coast of Calabria between the days 1st and 2nd December 2013, the Superintendence for the archaeological goods of Calabria saw the worsening of the erosion conditions of the coast overlooking the Archaeological Park of ancient Kaulonia, today Monasterace Marina, in particular in the areas of the sacred area related to the Doric temple and the spa complex, whose famous mosaic makes unique the site of Monasterace in southern continental Italy. The Superintendence asked the University of Calabria, which had previously dealt with the geological study of ancient Kaulon and other Calabrian coastal magnagrec sites, to carry out a survey to evaluate the damage caused by the storm event and to propose possible emergency remedies. The university expert, on the same day of December 2, 2013, carried out the inspection and at the same time prepared a report sent to the Superintendence and the then commissioner of the Municipality, with which, in confirming the gravity of the situation, suggested a first emergency intervention, with the installation of large blocks close to the terraced warehouse on which the ancient settlement insists. In the same days the Superintendence asked and obtained from the General Secretariat a sum of 300,000 euros for a first intervention. Since the works to be performed were outside the competence of the Superintendence, the Province of Reggio Calabria was asked for help, which at a cost of 60,000 euros carried out a barrier of protection, located on the beach in front of the temple. The barrier of the Province was completed at the end of January 2014. On February 1, 2014, a new violent storm hit the Ionian coast, causing new serious damage to the archaeological area. The barrier proved ineffective: a part of the temple wall and a corner of the great southern altar were overwhelmed by the fury of the sea. The director of the Museum with her staff recovered all the stone material dispersed from the sea and placed it in the Museum. In the meantime, the design of the emergency intervention of 300,000 euros took place; after meteo-marine and geological studies and after consulting the maritime works office of the public works of Reggio Calabria, it was decided to use an external designer. The process of the intervention developed during 2014, the completion of the works took place on 4 April 2015 and the test ended on 25 July 2015. In July 2014, thanks to a remodulation of funds, another 700,000 euros were granted by the Ministry to continue the protection work of the entire seafront of the Archaeological Park, in order to avoid damage from tides to the mosaic of the thermal baths. I would like to stress here that the famous mosaic depicting dragons and dolphins, carefully covered after the restoration, has never been damaged by the tides. The project of the intervention, financed with the 700,000 euros recalled by Senator Molinari, had a long and complex iter and was validated and approved in August 2015. The regional secretariat, after receiving the project, asked for some additions, which resulted in further work and the use of further time. With the beginning of 2016, the same Secretariat formally called for the designation of the Conference of Services, which was convened on 10 February 2016 for 9 March 2016. I would like to point out that the project involves the realization, in continuity with the intervention concluded in April 2015, of a slight remodelling of the side of the coastal dune and the insertion of "cabbions" in steel mesh filled with stones with different sizes. Within the same project is provided a cover to protect the important mosaic floor. Unfortunately, despite the presentation of the project at the Conference of Services on 9 March 2016, the current phase is that of a preliminary project; the level of definition and in-depth design of the project still has shortcomings, so it has not been considered appropriate to the selection criteria provided for by the PON programme culture and development 2014-2020 and requires further structural and hydrogeological insights. It is therefore necessary, also in the light of the opinions expressed at the Conference of Services, a rapid remodulation of the project that ensures the safety of the escarpment, in fact I remember that in the meantime the removal of the dune due to the action of the sea has become worse, discovering a section from which emerge stratigraphies and archaeological structures, and the safeguard of what emerged; therefore no longer only interventions of protection from the sea but a remodelling and remodeling of the entire side, provided for adequate operations of protection of the archaeological pre-existences and saves the definition, at a later moment, of a project for the restoration of the archaeological area. I would like to reassure the honourable Member that our superintendent is doing so, not least because a greater definition of the project will allow the search for new funding lines.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u132	MOLINARI (Mixed). Madam President, I can only thank the Undersecretary and the Government for their prompt response, for their intellectual honesty, as on other occasions I have mentioned the difficulty of the Government, sometimes, in responding to our work as an inspection union. I hope the legend that he responds when he has no responsibility is not true, also because in this case, instead, he said he was very careful about the subject, and I am pleased with that. We, as Calabria Region, need to focus on our excellences and on our great history. The heritage of the colony of Kaulon and that the Municipality of Monasterace has in custody is too important to be able to lose it. Calabria must focus on sustainable development and excellence. Of course, I ask the Government to ensure that the commitment is constant and that it is not done as in the famous history of the doctor who studies and in the meantime the patient dies. We don't have time to waste anymore. It was necessary to do the work yesterday and not to postpone it until tomorrow, so I hope that there will be maximum attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u133	The following are questions 3-02423 and 3-02550 on the exclusion of technical and administrative staff in service without a time limit from the PRIN 2015 call. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u134	Madam President, the questions to be answered both relate to the call for research projects of major national interest (PRIN) for 2015, specifically on the participation of university technical and administrative staff in research groups relating to individual projects. It should be noted in advance that the above notice has been issued by directorial decree No 2488 of 4 November 2015, which introduced some significant changes compared to previous procedures; For the first time in its history, the PRIN has opened the doors, as well as the universities and public research bodies supervised by the Ministry of Education, University and Research, also to public or private research bodies, thereby promoting the widest possible competition among the best scientists and scholars existing at national level. In addition, the portability of projects will be fully implemented by providing that, in the case of the transfer of the principal investigator or of a unit manager from one university or institution to another, the smooth operation of the activities will have to be ensured simply by written agreement between the two universities or bodies. Further important change concerns the accounting procedures at the end of the project, which may be supplemented only for expenditure related to the dissemination of results, through the production of a supplementary report to be submitted to the MIUR within the twelfth month following the expiry of the project. Another innovation concerns the size of the Ministry's financing, which will no longer be determined to a fixed extent, but may vary from project to project. Also in relation to the staff of the role, in the new call PRIN is previewed another novelty, consisting in the payment, for reward purpose, in favor of the university or institution center of search unit of the main investor, of a flatrate quota pairs to 50% of the annual gross salary received from the main investor at the time of the presentation of the plan, with consequent remission from the calculation of the indicator of financial sustainability of the university, for the purposes of article 5 of the legislative decree 29 March 2012, n. 49 (i.e. from the calculation of the quota of assumption). As regards the evaluation of projects, this will take place at a single stage and will be carried out by three selection committees appointed by the MIUR and trained, for each macro-sector, by scientific experts selected by the National Research Supervisor Committee on the basis of their proven and specific expertise. As usual, the committees will have anonymous external auditors (numbering three for each project), who will operate independently, selected by the same bodies within the international scientific communities of reference. The whole procedure will be carried out by electronic means, without any need for the transmission and acquisition of paper documents. It should be noted that on the expiry of the deadline for submission, extended - as I recall - to 15 January 2016, 4,431 projects were submitted and that, in the state, the evaluation by the above mentioned committees is currently under way, which is expected to be completed by the summer. Coming to the specific question put by the honourable Members, it should be noted that the ban has not at all prevented the inclusion in the research groups of the subjects referred to in Article 18 of Law No 240 of 30 December 2010 (in particular, as far as this is concerned, of the technical staff of universities). Much more simply, for the sole purpose of the scientific evaluation by the auditors, Italian or foreign, identified by the call selection committee, the modules prepared for the presentation of the projects required that only five names be presented in a special table for each research group, to be chosen, by the project proposer, between professors or researchers considered more significant from the scientific point of view. This determination has been achieved in order to facilitate, from a point of view of efficiency and effectiveness, the task of auditors who, on the occasion of previous notices where this limitation did not exist, were often faced with lists of dozens and dozens of people for each research unit, without making clear the real contribution and the scientific weight of each of them at the next stage of implementation of the projects. Moreover, to clarify more clearly the above, with FAQ No 10 published on the site dedicated to the call, it was specified that the failure to include in the above table any name (including professors or researchers) did not preclude participation in the project under any circumstances. To this end, it is also stated that the project proposer, if he considers it appropriate, can provide additional information on the composition and complementarity of the working group, by including additional names (over five already provided in the table) in the text of the project itself, in particular in the appropriate paragraph, called "Articolation of the project" with the identification of the role of the individual operating units and any research organisations involved according to the intended objectives and their modalities of integration and collaboration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u137	ANGIONES (PD). Mr Secretary, I would like to begin by thanking you for your timely reply. As you certainly know, there are about 600 permanent employees of Italian universities framed as technical and administrative staff who potentially looked with interest at the last PRIN call. They are highly qualified and highly qualified both from a formative point of view (they all have a degree and most of them also have a PhD or a diploma of specialization) and from a scientific point of view, as they are subjects who participate in the research activity of the Italian university, I would also add to the activity tout court of research in our country. Many of them have been able to obtain, among other things, national scientific qualifications in positions of first and second-class professors. In view of this preparation, today the role of these real scientists is not properly valued being equated with administrative staff who, while playing a fundamental role in the life of the university of our country, certainly performs tasks and competences very different from the first. In my view, the main problem is that of a regulatory framework that currently holds together players who carry out different activities. It should also be borne in mind that the participation of this staff in research groups and projects has only recently been possible under Law No 240 of 2014. In the last two decades, among other things, in particular in the reforms that have concerned the Italian university, it has not been considered the opportunity of a redevelopment of the role of technical and administrative staff, also with the aim of making the Italian university research system more efficient. To date, this category of discrimination is still intolerable. I appreciate your answer, but those discriminations continue to find them in the last PRIN call and translate into the fact, for example, that, although in possession of the national scientific qualification, for this staff it is almost impossible, in fact, to be called to positions of professor, both first and second class, despite Law No 240. For these reasons, I think that the question that we raised with the other signatories with this question is only a question of the PRIN ban. The time has come to overcome these discriminations by changing the current regulatory framework in order to allow this staff to be placed in a role that can enhance their competences. I am thinking, for example, of the role of technologist, already envisaged today for all public research bodies in our country. In my opinion, in view of the very low costs of these changes, it would be possible, among other things, to increase the number of human resources fully recognised as expendable in educational and research activities at university. Together with the other signatories to this question, I will try to make myself spokesperson, in the case of a legislative proposal which pursues this objective. We understand that your ministry is working to finally define the legal status of researcher. Of course, we support this solution and for that, Mr Undersecretary, I hope to be able to count on the contribution of the Minister and the Ministry, today represented by his person.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u140	LIUZZI (CoR). Madam President, I am partially satisfied with the answer given by Mr Toccafondi, because, in taking note that the ban does not provide for an explicit exclusion of the type of staff we refer to in the question, it is likely that a self-exclusion has been established or, at least, a part of the project groups has been induced to exclude this substantial group of collaborators. Therefore, I believe that not only the quality of the projects, but also the implementation and management phase, can be affected. The technical and administrative staff have certain qualities, skills and skills both for the design, in order to meet the objectives set, and for the management dimension. I am referring to the maintenance of the various project phases, the start-up of the project, but also to the implementation and cultivation of partnership relationships, which are the responsibility of the technical and administrative staff. For these reasons, I raise concerns about the outcome of the project under discussion. The truth has been stated here and, unfortunately, goes back to a lack of legislation on the qualification and role of the staff of the so-called graduate technicians, which we also dealt with in the 7th Permanent Commission here in the Senate. Therefore, in taking note of the Ministry's willingness to evaluate the goodness of the projects, also considering the participation of the graduate technicians, even when integrating them, I believe that we have the task of seriously considering a bill that finally regulates this case and therefore to create a condition of serenity in the myriad of figures that respond to that of the graduate technician. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u141	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-605.ana.u142	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 12 April, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.43 p.m.
