ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Questions 3-02182 and 3-02940 will be asked first about the increase in the national fund for the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u4	Madam President, with questions on the agenda, which are discussed jointly - as you have rightly said - Senators Puppato and Bignami, together with other senators, draw the Minister of the Interior's attention to the phenomenon of unaccompanied foreign minors, calling for incisive measures, including of a regulatory nature, to ensure higher levels of reception and greater financial support for the municipalities involved in the front line. The problems related to the reception of these children have long been the attention of the Ministry of the Interior, also because, in the context of the huge migratory flows that are affecting the national territory, there is an increasing number of arrivals of this category of vulnerable subjects. The data on minors in question, kept up to date by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, clearly show that in the last four years the influx of unaccompanied minors has substantially doubled, having passed from the 5821 units present in Italy in 2012 to 11,921 last year. The escalation of the phenomenon has made urgent the need to ensure adequate State support to the municipalities which, as is well known, are responsible for the legal assistance and representation of children out of the family. In this direction there has been a radical rethinking of the governance of the national reception system, with a strong contextual assumption of responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. The new system originated with the national operational plan for the management of migratory flows, approved by the Unified Conference at its meeting on 10 July 2014, whose innovative scope lies in the fact that, without prejudice to the priority competence of the Municipalities, the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors sees the involvement under the three levels of government of the Country: the State, the Regions and the Municipalities themselves who have decided to share their burdens in a proportionate manner and according to predefined parameters on the territory. A further distinctive feature of the new system is that it is structured - precisely in the sense advocated by Senator Bignami - so that the reception of migrants escapes from the emerging logic practiced in the past, also through the use of tools proper to civil protection, to acquire the connotation of ordinary, structural and programmable activities. The forecasts of the national plan have then found seal and cover in two legislative interventions. I refer, first of all, to the 2015 law of stability that - as reported in the question of Senator Puppato - has transferred from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to the Ministry of the Interior the fund intended to financially support the municipalities that provide reception services to unaccompanied foreign minors. This was an important measure of rationalization, because, overcoming previous fragmentations, it has allowed to concentrate in a single Dicastery the interventions of state competence in the field of the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors. It is believed that this amalgamation represented a real step forward, taking into account the consolidated relationship of collaboration that the Viminale has traditionally built with the local authorities, which are the actual terminals on the territory of this very delicate problem. On the other hand, the same 2015 Stability Act provided for the possibility of hosting in the SPRAR structures, managed as known by local authorities with the unitary direction and the predominant financial support of the Ministry of the Interior, unaccompanied foreign minors not seeking international protection. This was also an important innovation, given that the SPRAR system is traditionally intended for the reception of asylum seekers and refugees only. More recently, legislative decree n. 142 of 2015 has intervened that, through various provisions of clarification and closure of the system, has drawn its contours with greater precision. The regulatory mechanism provides for a phase of first reception of the child in high-specialization structures managed by the Ministry of the Interior. Staying in these centres is limited to the time strictly necessary and in any case does not exceed 90 days. The minor is subsequently hosted in the second reception facilities of the SPRAR system managed - as mentioned - by the municipalities according to a model shared with the Ministry of the Interior, which enhances the widespread hospitality and aims at integration. Where such facilities are temporarily unavailable, local authorities shall, however, ensure that the child is hosted through their own assistance services, in accordance with the regional allocation criteria identified, after agreement with the unified Conference, by the national coordination table operating at the Internal Administration, in which the world of local self-government is nevertheless widely represented. In this case, the municipalities may request access, within the limits of the available resources, to the already mentioned fund of the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to point out in this regard - and with this I answer another of the questions asked by the interrogating senators - that the fund has received an important budget for the current year: it is 170 million euros (i.e. almost twice the 90 million euros allocated for 2015) that it is believed can contribute to significantly raising the quality and quantity standards of the reception. The 2015 amounts - as mentioned above - to EUR 90 million have already been allocated and paid to the requesting municipalities for 92% of the total amount allocated. Payments for the first quarter have already begun for the current year. It is clear that the size of the fund can be further increased and, indeed, it is desirable that this should be the case, but this requires a targeted legislative intervention which will have to take responsibility for finding the necessary financial cover. These are the salient aspects of the new system for the reception of unaccompanied minors. It was important to recapitulate the entire organizational model, despite the awareness of providing some known news, to show how it achieves significant State support to municipalities. It is, however, a system that is still under construction and that, therefore, has not yet expressed all its potentialities. As regards the first reception, the Authority responsible for the European Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund published, on 22 April last, with a deadline of yesterday, 22 June, the public call necessary for the setting up of the first thousand high-specialization posts. In blackberries, in order to meet the most pressing needs, we have activated temporary reception facilities for more than 700 minors per day in 2015 and for 614 minors per day until next August 22, using also in this case resources of the European Fund for Asylum, Migration and Integration. As for the second reception, I inform you that the SPRAR network, already equipped with about 2,000 places dedicated to unaccompanied minors, will be strengthened shortly with an additional 2,000 places, for which the public notice has already been sent out. I want to point out that with this ban, for the first time, the participation of the municipalities in the costs to be incurred for the creation of posts is limited to only 5%, compared to the percentage of 20% planned and practiced previously. I think I can say that the Government is devoting due attention to unaccompanied minors and that the Administration of the Interior, in particular, is working to ensure that they are welcomed in line with the European policies of the sector and respectful of the principles enshrined in the international conventions signed by Italy. All this happens in close connection with the ANCI and the other representative bodies of the local autonomy, with which there is, by express provision of law, a constant intercourse and sharing of the choices and strategies to be put in place both in the unified Conference and within the framework of the aforementioned national coordination table at the Viminale and regional tables operating at the prefectures of the capitals of the Region. We are aware that, in the management of such a complex phenomenon, criticalities can occur. But there is the commitment on our part to confront them, employing, also in the future, every resource of ours for the effective respect of the rights of unaccompanied foreign minors, in adherence to the universal principles of protection of the person, which are the basis of our juridical civilization.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u7	PUPPATE (PD). I would like to thank Vice-Minister Bubbico for his concern about the issue of minors is exactly what he has responded to. I am referring to the large number of unaccompanied minors who arrive in our country and run the risk of falling into the hands of malicious people. In addition, where they are accepted, reception can lead to an undue often unsustainable burden in host communities. The increase and therefore the elimination of the plafond that there was before 45 euros daily for every unaccompanied minor, associated with the increase of the fund of 170 million to which you mentioned, Deputy Minister, still associated to the fact that a series of authorizations for 2,000 places (and an additional 2,000 places) for minors has already been prepared, I believe that they can give the guarantee, reducing to 5% the charges related to the host communities through the SPRAR, that by the Ministry of the Interior there is the absolute ability and will to monitor this very important phenomenon, to manage it properly and above all to protect the economies of those municipalities that so sensitively consider to host these minors. Therefore, I am fully satisfied with the answer and thank you very much, Mr Vice-Minister, for continuing the monitoring. I think that this situation, which continues to manifest itself on our territories, must be the subject of a constant focus. I would also like to say that Parliament, in particular the Senate in which we are sitting today, must take responsibility, where necessary, for the proper implementation of the plafonds and the regulations available for the specific sector of the maintenance of unaccompanied minors.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u10	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr. Deputy Minister, thank you very much for your commitment and all the fine words you have said, but there is no trace of a given in everything you have said. I say that my question, unfortunately, is from November 5, 2014, while - I remember - today is June 23, 2016. Already in my question, two years ago, the figure of 3,163 unaccompanied children was mentioned. So, if all the commitment made over the course of time were true, you told us that the kids today have doubled numerically, but also Minister Orlando, three days ago, gave us the certainty that the untraceable are 6,135: so they double the income and double the untraceable. I would like to focus on this issue, because where even one boy is lost and cannot be traced, the State is an accomplice. We have a duty and inefficiencies feed evil and everything about the dark shadow that we never talk about. The 6,135 have no great destiny ahead of them, and we know that. They are children who are used by evil: if they are lucky, it can only be child labour, but it can be sexual exploitation, or even organ trafficking. I therefore appeal to the Minister to take care of all these young people and above all to try to solve the problem of all those who are no longer traceable to date.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u11	Following is the question 3-02757 on the effective use of the funds collected for the restoration of the baptistery of San Giovanni in Florence. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Blundo, together with other senators, asks that the Opera di Santa Maria del Fiore clarify the actual destination of the funds raised by the Unicoop of Florence to finance the restoration of the Baptistery of San Giovanni. I state that the Opera di Santa Maria del Fiore, as a factory, is subject to the system of controls provided for by the decree of the President of the Republic n. 33 of 1987, according to which the President of the institution is required to transmit to the prefect, by 30 November of the previous year, the forecast budget of the following year and, by 31 March of each year, the final account of the previous year. The two accounting documents, before sending to the prefect, must be approved by the management board of the factory. The prefect, after hearing the diocesan bishop, if serious irregularities are detected in the administration or the impossibility for the factory to continue to function, may suspend it, if there are reasons of urgent need, entrusting its provisional management to one of its commissioners. In any case, he reports to the Minister of the Interior, who, after hearing the diocesan bishop and the Council of State, can dissolve the institution and appoint an extraordinary commissioner. This clarified in general, I point out that the Opera del Duomo has regularly deposited with the prefecture of Florence the final accounts and the forecast balance sheets. According to reported by the prefect, the consumptions relative to the years 2014 and 2015 have recorded a profit of exercise respectively of 3 and 2,6 million euros approximately, while the profit estimated for 2016 piles to approximately 1,5 million euros. The compliance of the above-mentioned conclusions with the rules governing the drafting criteria has been regularly certified by the audit firm in charge. These are the findings of the prefect's checks, which show compliance with accounting obligations and seem to confirm a sound financial situation of the Opera. Regarding the specific requests of the interrogators on the use of the funds collected by Unipop, the Opera has announced that in the last three years an extraordinary maintenance intervention has been necessary concerning the baptistery, the facades of the three large palaces overlooking the south side of the Duomo, the ruins of the ancient cathedral of Santa Reparata and the museum, with the restoration of three hundred works of art; interventions of the total value of over 40 million euros. The relative financial commitments have been addressed utilizing, in part, the resources set aside in the previous years and, in part, the managerial profits achieved also thanks to a total work of control of the internal costs and to some transactions of commercial nature and marketing, that have allowed to go from 10,4 million euros of income in 2010 (year of taking over of the current board of directors) to 16,6 million euros of income in 2015, so as to reach in the period of reference total profits pairs to approximately 14,5 million euros. At the same time, the Work carried out an internal reorganisation which increased its operational efficiency, including through the introduction of management control and entrepreneurship criteria and the recruitment of 15 major professional figures under the age of 40. To financially support the whole of the planned operations, the Opera has also tried to use private sponsorships, proposing to more than 30 large Florentine companies to associate their name with the restoration works. Also due to the impediments and constraints provided by the municipal regulation on advertising, the initiative has not found accessions, with the exception of a single offer of contribution of about 60,000 euros. In this context, there is the fundraising promoted by Unicoop among its members, which has yielded a total of about 200,000 euros - precisely 201,680 euros - all paid into the coffers of the Opera to contribute to the costs of restoration of the Baptistery, amounting to a total of 1 million and 970,000 euros. The Unipop funds covered, therefore, little more than 10% of the costs incurred; another 6% was secured with the contribution of other donors, while the remaining 84 percent was paid directly by the Opera with its own resources. The Opera had to specify, on the one hand, that the total amount of the work - equal to just under EUR 2 million - was paid regularly to the companies that carried out them under the supervision of the Superintendence; on the other hand, that the specific documentation on the use of the sums collected by Unipop was not provided to Unipop itself in an approximate manner, but using the reporting scheme that is required by the U.S. Tax for donations made by U.S. companies that intend to make use of tax deductions. The Opera added that no public resource has ever entered its coffers. As for 2015, the proceeds are derived: 82% from the sale of admission tickets to monuments; 13% from the commercial exploitation of real estate and financial assets; 5% from mainly international donations. Within this item, the Unicoop donation accounted for only 1.2 percent. As for the alleged maxi coupon to the two directors-general who succeeded in recent years, the Opera has always informed that, in order to match the emolument, the sums collected neither by Unipop nor by other donors have not been used, but only the resources deriving from its institutional activity as a private body and not supported by any public contribution. The bonus was for two top executives and included both the non-warning allowance and the additional allowances, in line with their national collective labour agreements and what was agreed in conciliation before their respective trade union representatives. The quantification of the amount also took into account the important results achieved by professionals in terms of efficiency and organisation of the institution. Finally, with regard to any criminal aspects of the case, the Ministry of Justice has communicated that the prosecutor of the Republic of Florence has delegated to the Finance Guard preliminary investigations aimed at establishing the existence or not of crimes. The investigation is still ongoing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u15	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr Deputy Minister, thank you for your reply, of which we are certainly satisfied, although it would have been appropriate to ensure that the funds received and their use were traceable. You have rightly explained to us that there is a final account and that there was already a budget, but the traceability of resources and their effective use puts everyone in peace, even more so when asking for further economic support to citizens. With regard to the maxi vouchers, it is clear that they have left the citizenship perplexed, since for a very short assignment a good exit of 330,000 euros has been paid, which is in a certain sense high. As regards internal, bureaucratic assessments, which can be made, we note that they have been reported with great detail, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u16	The following are questions 3-002827, 3-02830 and 3-02931 on the lack of anti-mafia certification of a company of public works in Portici, in the province of Naples. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u17	Madam President, with questions on the agenda, Senators Capacchione, Endrizzi and Cappelletti, together with other Senators, put to the attention of the Government the case of Lande Srl, a company based in Naples, entrusted with public procurement in different areas of the country and with different contracting stations, and involved, through one of the owners, in judicial proceedings of a criminal nature. In particular, Senator Capacchione complains that the company continues to maintain contractual relations with various public administrations in the absence of the prescribed anti-mafia certification and asks in this regard to know the reasons that would prevent the prefect of Naples to assume the determinations of competence on the issue of the aforementioned certification or, subject to the conditions, on the application of the anti-mafia ban. The issue highlighted is particularly closely followed in Parliament, so much so that over the past few weeks various acts of inspection union have been presented on it, one of which was discussed by the Interior Minister himself during the question time in the Chamber last May. Compared with what the Minister said on that occasion, there was - as is well known - an important novelty in the sense advocated by the interrogating senators. Let's get this over with. The contractual relations of Lande with the various contracting stations have been established in the presence of information of liberating character issued by the prefecture of Naples until 2013. Such information - as is well known - is likely to be later updated, in relation to new or even previous facts that unveil a mafia type compromise of the economic operator. Of course, in this case the anti-mafia code provides for the immediate withdrawal of the contracting authority, resulting in a fall in the contract, as well as the removal of the undertaking from any existing relationship with any public administration. Taking advantage of the law faculties, in 2014 the prefecture of Naples started a new investigation, aimed at verifying the possible existence of elements of infiltration or conditioning of organized crime on the part of the company in question. The reasons that led to a particular attention on the Lande are due to criminal proceedings in which the accusatory hypothesis is advanced that there would have been an instrumentality of the enterprise in relation to the domestic crime. In fact, the former sole administrator and technical director of the Lande, involved in a proceeding for various crimes, including that of auction disturbance and upset freedom of choice of the contractor, was achieved by a precautionary measure, carried out however after his resignation from the corporate offices. I would point out that the activity of the prefecture was not limited to a review of the documentation inherent to the company, that is to say to its company and technical structure, but also involved the execution of inspections and accesses at the premises of the same company and in the different areas of construction site. In the present case, both the anti-mafia investigation team and the specific interforce core responsible for in situ checks have provided them, according to the anti-mafia control methodology developed for the major works and then extended also to ordinary contracts. The verifications have proved to be particularly complex, also in view of the changed ownership structure, which has seen the transformation from limited liability companies to public limited companies and which is now known for the presence of an entity holding shares in the capacity of trust. In the meantime, no decision has been taken on the request made by Lande to register in the white lists held by the same prefecture of Naples. It is known, in fact, that only a completely liberating outcome can lead to the inclusion in the prefectual lists relating to particular sectors at risk, established in each prefecture in implementation of the so-called Severino law of 2012. The investigations arranged by the prefecture ended with the adoption, on 3 June, of an anti-mafia ban against the Lande. The measure was immediately sent to the large contracting stations for the adoption of the competent caducator and extromissive measures. I suggest that the prefecture of Naples, in response to the request made by the National Anti-corruption Authority, has initiated the procedure for the adoption of extraordinary and temporary management measures referred to in Article 32, paragraph 10, of Decree-Law No 90 of 2014; this also in view of the significant number of contractual relationships that Lande maintains with public administrations and the related requirements of safeguarding employment levels. The existence of the conditions for the adoption of these extraordinary measures will be assessed at a dedicated service conference, which is in preparation and for which the prefecture, already last week, requested from the contracting stations information about the current contractual relations. For completeness, I inform you that, following the anti-mafia ban, the prefecture is completing the procedure for rejecting the Lande's application for inclusion in the white lists.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u20	CUOMO (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Vice-Minister for his answer to the question and I must say that I do not feel that I can give a judgment, neither of satisfaction nor of dissatisfaction, because I understand that the reconstruction of the prefectures, particularly that of Naples, lasted nine months. Therefore, when we talk about controls to avoid infiltration, such a long time presupposes that perhaps these companies have also completed the work. The question, the first signatory of which is my colleague, Mr Capacchione, which I also thank for the quality of the exhibition, is based above all on a problem that we pose as legislators, Mr Vice-Minister, and I say this above all knowing his sensitivity, having been local administrator. There is a theme: preventive controls. You cannot imagine entrusting a contract to a company that is not registered in the white list or that has submitted an application for re-registration, since it probably was not at the time of the contract. And, unfortunately, you can't even imagine what is happening in some contracting stations: this company is a temporary association of companies (ATI) with other companies and is replaced by amblée to avoid the problem and continue the contract. All these contractual and also legal artifices in fact frustrate the effort that is made by legislators, ministries and law enforcement forces to avoid infiltration into municipalities through public procurement. Among other things, there is a theme that we probably have to put ourselves as legislators, that is, the circularity of information given from prefects to other prefects. If the company Lande has 28 contracts in Italy (and we are talking about large contracts), it is not imaginable that an anti-mafia ban, issued after nine months from the moment of the request by the territorially competent prefecture, in the case that of Naples, must then have a path further expanded in the times for the other prefectures. I think - for example - of the prefect of Alexandria, who was duly informed of all the problems inherent in this society. There was, in fact, a certain asymmetry between the investigative activities, the measures of the judicial authorities and what was basically done by the prefectures. Thanks to Senator Capacchione, who has allowed me to speak as the second signatory of the question, I must say that in this case it is good to emphasize and I am pleased that he also listens to the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport, who has a competence in the field of public works, and to the few fellow senators who attend such sessions. It is very curious, in fact, to learn that the Municipality of Portici has signed the contract with the ATI of which the Lande was part on 29 December 2015 and 30 December 2015 has cleared a state of progress of the intense activities, that is the day after; I wonder therefore how it was possible to have the information in twenty-four hours. Among other things, the next day a state of progress of the work was cleared (as also written in the question submitted by me together with Senator Capacchione and other colleagues), but it was then discovered to be related to works that were not even carried out and that, in fact, are the subject of investigations by the DAC and the judicial authority. Meanwhile, while this anti-mafia interdictive has arrived, Lande has been largely paid for the progress of the works by the Municipality of Portici and - I presume - also by other contracting stations. As a former administrator I wonder what route the contracting stations will have to take to get the money paid back to the company Lande, which could not contract with the public administration. As a legislator, I am not least concerned about the application not only of the anti-mafia code, but also of all the rules we have implemented during our legislative work. I have to say that, if these are the times, the rules we have set ourselves unfortunately do not work and, perhaps, especially for large contracts whose amount exceeds a certain threshold, it would be good to go back to the system of preventive controls and have a database that guarantees a circularity of the news. In this case, it is not possible that the anti-mafia interdictive issued by the prefecture of Naples against Lande would need another month to be transposed by other prefectures. The anti-mafia ban is unique and applies throughout the national territory and, at the time it is issued by the territorially competent prefecture, it obliges all other prefectures and contracting stations to receive it immediately. It should probably be considered, even in the legislative framework, what is the best approach to avoid infiltration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u23	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr Vice-Minister, while thanking you for your speedy reply to the questions (which, in fact, go back one to 9 June and the other to 10 May), I cannot do the same with regard to the interdictment itself. Personally, I began to talk about this subject in this House about nine months ago, but in the last parliamentary term questions have already been tabled whose oblivion - I remember - has been endorsed by the Senate and which, in any case, I do not want to make any further comments. At the same time, the company's lawyers wrote to me to tell me not to talk badly about the company because it was going on about its good name and, in fact, let's see what the results were. As Mr Cuomo said, it is serious that it takes so long to intervene in situations of this kind, especially for companies which have a spread and a capillary of work throughout the national territory. We speak, in fact, of Campania, Lombardy, Piedmont and Veneto and there are really widespread situations throughout the national territory. As stated above, it does not make sense that it is an order of the Council of State that establishes that the interdictment is of value throughout the national territory, as this should be a normal thing and defined by law. Having said that, I hope that there will be more rapid instruments to define situations of this kind, also because, when we talk about public works and public administration, the money is citizens' money and it would be better if they went into the pockets of those who work legally.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u24	Following are questions 3-02216 and 3-02533 on the granting of the motorway A4 Brescia-Padova. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u25	Madam President, the Brescia-Verona-Vicenza-Padova SpA motorway company is a concessionaire for the motorway routes A4 Brescia-Padova, A31 Agugliaro-Piovene Rocchette and A31 Interconnection with the State road 434-S.Margherita d'Adige, pursuant to the single agreement signed with ANAS on 9 July 2007, approved by Law No 101 of 2008 and became effective in November 2009 following the filing of the infringement procedure initiated by the European Union, which, among other things, set the end of the contractual deadline to 2026. In fact, in article 4, paragraph 1, of the said convention it is established that the expiration of the concession is fixed to 31 December 2026, according to the realization of the Valdastico Nord. It was also established that, if the final draft of the Valdastico Nord had not been approved by 30 June 2013, the effects on the financial economy (EPF) and the Convention would have been determined accordingly between the parties. That deadline of 30 June 2013 was subsequently extended to 30 June 2015, in agreement with the competent offices of the European Commission. With regard to the aforementioned project of Valdastico, the first lot (in Veneto territory) has already been approved by resolution of CIPE n. 21 of 2013. On 6 August 2015, CIPE also took note of the agreement between the Italian Government and the Autonomous Province of Trento and the Veneto Region regarding the process of defining the understanding on the realization of the Valdastico Nord motorway connection, second lot of completion, between the Valle dell'Astico tollgate and the conjunction with the A22 motorway of Brennero. The agreement provided for the establishment of a joint committee between the State, the Veneto Region and the Autonomous Province of Trento. The Joint Committee concluded its work on 9 February 2016, confirming the presence of the conditions envisaged and identifying as the best scenario the construction of an infrastructure interconnection corridor between Valdastico, Valsugana and Valle dell'Adige. In order to transpose the decisions of the Joint Committee in relation to the construction of the Valdastico Nord motorway connection, on 14 March 2016 the company transmitted an updated version of the financial economic plan which, subsequently instructed by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, was presented on 17 May to CIPE together with the reference documentation and at the same time the presentation of the final document of the aforementioned committee, in order to the subsequent approval necessary to start the design procedures of the Valdastico Nord route second lot, those of realization of the 1st already approved lot and all the other activities necessary for the realization of the other works. So, as Mr Delrio has already reported in this House last week, in the context of question time, for Brescia-Padova, the concession was not extended, but was in place until 2026: therefore, there was not an extension to the expired concession but implementation of what was expressly provided for in the current Convention. Finally, it is recalled that the procedure described above, Minister Delrio gave specific information to the European Commissioner of the Directorate-General for Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Elzbieta Bienkowska, as well as to the Directorate itself. Finally, with regard to the reasons for the extension of the A22 motorway, I take back in full what I have already had the opportunity to report to Senator Malan a moment ago: on 14 January 2016 the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport signed the Memorandum of Understanding for the application of the management model referred to in Article 17 of the European Directive No 23 of 2014, which provides for the possibility for the contracting authority to entrust a concession directly, if the requirements laid down therein are met. Therefore, with the signing of that Protocol, no extension to the concession was authorised. At the end of the procedure referred to in Article 17 and in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol, a conventional act shall be concluded with the concessionaire, setting out the duration of the concession, the investment programme and the financing arrangements.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u28	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to thank the Presidency, not for giving me the floor (which I thank you for anyway), but for asking for the answer to these questions, the first of which dates back to September 2015, when all the issues now being discussed were much more topical and could intervene in the formation of what happened after. I would like to thank Mr Del Basso De Caro personally for his usual courtesy and for his reply. As for the content of the reply, I ask, precisely since September 2015, to know who signed those extensions without which the concessionary company would be in default. In the text which the Undersecretary has read to us, he says it has been extended. My historian said that when you talk about history you don't have to use the passive verb because otherwise you don't understand who you do. It has been: I ask for two years to know who is the gentleman or the lady who has signed this extension. It seems to be a problem, because even today it has not been possible to know. I would point out that I have also made access to documents under Law No 241 of 1990. The month provided for in the law expired without having received any reply; I therefore resorted to the Access Committee. The Access Committee ran out of 30 days last Saturday, but I still have no news. I don't know if I have to appeal to some higher entity. As far as the substance is concerned, I should like to thank the Undersecretary for a number of acts which have been taken and which would have been normal to inform Parliament earlier, given that this question has not only been there for a long time but has been called for several times. It would be interesting to have a clear response and to have an idea of what these acts are and how this convention has been amended. In practice, in 2007 it was granted for a further twenty years, until 2026 (but the original intention was to set a later deadline), this very important motorway, which collects more than 300 million per year, to the company that operated it for almost forty years, if not more. This is due to the fact that the aforementioned company completed this structure with the Valdastico Nord motorway: not with any work called Valdastico Nord, but with this highway. From the news we read in the newspapers, this highway will not be such, but a link or enlargement of the current state; it will be something else. We do not see it at this point because it is not achieved, even in the light of the fact that the 2007 Convention, which has been the subject of attention (in fact, there have been delays because there have been exceptions from the European Union), was extended precisely because this structure had to be implemented; therefore, a work is carried out which can also replace it but which is not that. And it doesn't seem to me that charges have been reduced on this highway. On this motorway, tariffs have increased twice as much as inflation over the last ten years. What was the reason for this increase? Doing the new infrastructure. But they have not been done, nor will they be done. He's gonna make a much cheaper one. Unfortunately, we're still on the same page. I would point out that, beyond the considerations that can be made, the last ten years of this concession (i.e. from last year until 2026) have been evaluated by a large international company in the motorway sector, the Spanish Abertis, EUR 1,200 million. But was it not more logical that this sum should be in the state's coffers, as it was supposed to have been since 2007? Or, it had to be done now, or at least some benefit had to go to those drivers passing through this crowded highway. No, you do not: you increase the rates to make a new infrastructure, which is not done, but the rates remain high the same. I will once again give access to the documents and I hope that this time the Ministry or the Committee on Access will be better guaranteed, because I want to find out what is in this situation. And I want to know who signed these acts, because depending on who signed it, there may be strong conflicts of interest. Which is confirmed to me by the fact that we don't even have that name today.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u29	Following is the question 3-02768 on the completion of the construction of the Salerno-Reggio Calabria motorway. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u30	Madam President, in relation to the questions asked, the company ANAS reports on the work on the A3 Salerno-Reggio Calabria motorway, macrolotto 3, part 2a, between the Laino Borgo junction at kilometer 153,400 and the Campotenese motorway at kilometer 173,900, for an extension of more than twenty kilometers. These works concern, in particular, the plano-altimetric and geometric adaptation of the existing motorway path, to be carried out in part in the premises and in part in variant, through the construction of numerous and important works of art: 6 galleries and 11 viaducts, including the viaduct Italy, currently in progress execution by the general contractor entrusted. In the initial programming the terms of opening to the traffic of the highway and the certification of end works were fixed in two separate phases for routes: respectively in July 2016 for the approximately five final kilometers and in November 2017 for the remaining route. The forecast of completion, however, suffering from some criticalities recorded during the course of the intervention (excavation of the Laria gallery and viaduct Italy), has involved a revision of the program of the works with translation in November 2018 of the expected deadline. For this reason, in the general framework of the evaluations carried out, it has been seen the advantage of being able to have the highway axis completely free from yards already from the current year, making usable the macrolotto 3 to two lanes for direction of march on all the extension since the next summer exodus, anticipating the opening to the traffic of the entire new center to the month of December 2016. The evaluations confirmed the technical feasibility of this objective by means of a strengthening of the organization of the yard, with an increase of workers and means to guarantee the production levels necessary for the completion of the works. Moreover, the ANAS points out that the cost for the organizational reorganization of the yard at the expense of the general contractor and indicated in a first estimate of approximately 20 million euros, at the conclusion of the investigations carried out, is now quantified in approximately 13,8 million euros. The same ANAS has also evidenced that the possibility to make usable to the users the entire macrolotto in new configuration, in advance of the planned date, reflects an undoubted benefit in terms of the journey of the artery in greater safety and without the inconveniences deriving from the presence of the yards. Moreover, it will be possible to verify a positive return also for the productive realities of the territory thanks to the consequent reduced times of transport and the more fluid connections to the strategic intermodal poles. In addition, the possibility of any increase in the amount of work, in particular cases, had been expressly provided for in the special contract specifications, annexed to the letters of invitation sent to firms for the purposes of the restricted procedure for entrusting the intervention in question. Therefore, ANAS considers that the tender cannot be considered to be altered either in the participatory or in the executive phase, since from the outset it had been made known to all the participating undertakings that the amount could potentially increase compared to the initial one. Therefore, all companies had the same opportunity to assess this possibility in order to formulate the offer. The same discourse is applicable at the current execution stage as the difference in the amount is due to the application of a rule falling within the tendering rules. ANAS also informs that other cases have occurred in the past in which the procedure described has been used, and more precisely in those situations which identified an appreciable interest in completing the work in advance, given the importance of the artery in the infrastructure and transport system and the extent of the regional and national traffic flows persisting on the artery itself. Finally, as regards the Valdastico Nord project, I would like to take back in full what I had the opportunity to report earlier: for Brescia-Padova, the concession has not been extended, but is in existence until 2026; therefore, there has not been an extension to the expired concession but implementation of what is expressly provided for in the current convention, which has, among other things, set the deadline for the contractual deadline by re-determined it, according to the realization of the Valdastico Nord, at 31 December 2026.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u33	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Del Basso De Caro for his timely reply. I reserve only access to the annexes to the letter governing the possibility of paying an additional fee in the event that these works are completed in advance. I also manifest, passing through, a certain surprise in learning that these works had to end at a certain date; then there was an estimate that moved one year beyond the same date and then, suddenly, it turned out that it could end a year earlier. They are small miracles that happen and bad; we just hope that they didn't cost too much (it seems that even the sum of 20 million has been reduced). I thank you for the detail and punctuality of the answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u34	Following are questions 3-01182, 3-02378 and 3-02530 on the extension of motorway concessions. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u35	Madam President, in relation to the granting of the A22 Modena-Brennero motorway, the Memorandum of Understanding for the application of the management model, as referred to in Article 17 of the 2014 European Directive No 23 on the award of concession contracts, was signed at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport (MIT). In order to achieve this subscription, the MIT, taking into account the need to ensure the realization of strategic road development works without interruption, has carried out an evaluation over time on the possible management of the concessionary relationship. In the context of contacts between the Italian Government and the European Commission in the first half of 2015 the possibility of applying the operational model provided for in Article 17 was found. This rule provides for the possibility for the contracting authority, represented by the MIT, to entrust directly a concession, if the requirements laid down therein are met, namely that: the contracting authority exercises control over the concessionaire similar to that it exercises over its own services; in the company structure of the concessionaire there is no participation of direct private capital (except for forms of participation of private capital that do not involve control or veto powers, prescribed by national laws, in accordance with the Treaties) which do not exercise a decisive influence on the controlled legal person. With regard to this last requirement, the MIT has, moreover, been oriented in the sense of requiring that future dealers be fully participated by public partners alone and, in addition, it has manifested the necessity that the companies, entrusted to take over in the concessionary relationships in force, are not included in the perimeter of the public administration, so as to be irrelevant for the purposes of the public finances. This particularity is supported by the economic and financial autonomy of the motorway sections in question, capable of generating a flow of revenue greater than the costs of construction and management. The State and the public administrations concerned have therefore agreed to initiate the cooperation procedure under Article 2 of Directive 2014/23/EU, according to which national, regional and local authorities may freely organise the execution of their works or the provision of their services in accordance with national and Union law. The activity of collaboration between the public administrations has been regulated by the aforementioned protocol of understanding in which they outline and define the salient points of the confidence of the concession; in particular the territorial and local public administrations associates of Autostrada del Brennero state that the managed highway traffic represents a fundamental infrastructure for the promotion of the economy of the territories crossed, and that therefore it must be managed in direct form - having regard to the territorial development, the environmental management and the profitable managerial and economic results achieved so far - through an enterprise of their emanation, in compliance with the provisions of Article 17 of the aforementioned directive. The protocol foreshadows subsequent initiatives by interested public partners to change the current corporate configurations both in terms of statutory regulation and in terms of shareholder structure. Specifically, the identification and adoption of the measures to be implemented, with the necessary regulatory and administrative instruments, for the entrusting by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the motorway concessions currently absent to Autostrada del Brennero SpA to companies fully participated by territorial and local public administrations participating in the agreement are defined. At the end of the procedure referred to in Article 17 and in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol, a conventional act setting out the duration of the concession, the investment programme and the financing arrangements shall be concluded with the concessionaire. It follows from the above that no extension to the A22 motorway has been authorised with the signing of the Protocol.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u38	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Del Basso De Caro once again for his reply. This question is the oldest, having been submitted in August 2014. Some questions remain unanswered, but there has certainly been an answer on one. In August 2014 I asked the reasons for the delay of the procedures to call the race for the A22, on which every year the management company has a gross operating margin, in other words a gain of about 150 million euros (I know well that we are not very far from this figure). The first reason is then in things and that is, if there is no new race, the current dealers continue to manage it quietly, with great benefit to them, of their employees - paid more than twice the average of the public administration - and of all the system of power that is around the company Autostrada del Brennero. The other reason we understood it precisely on 14 January, that is a year and a half after having submitted the question: the intention was not to race, which had already been called by the Berlusconi government in 2011 and then had been cancelled for various events. I did not have an answer on the timing of the races for motorway concessions due or due, even though I had assurances from the Minister himself, perhaps a few weeks ago in this House, that they would be made. But I still haven't received an answer on that. Each day the operators of the expiration concessions earn at least two million euros: we speak of margin, not of collection, a profit margin that could be well reduced by the mechanism of competition that takes place through the races. Every day that is delayed is 2 million more than the taxpayer, through motorway tolls, confers to these companies. It is right that they gain, but this gain could be narrowed to the benefit of either the state or the driver user. I haven't received any answers on that yet. As for the assignment of contracts to the companies Autostrada del Brennero and Autovie Venete, whose motorways lead substantially from Venice to Trieste, it is true that it is intended to apply a European standard, but there is no obligation to apply it: it is a possibility and not an obligation. My question remains unanswered as to why races should not take place. The answer cannot be 'because this can also be done': so many things can be done, but the interest of the Treasury and the citizens should be protected first of all. The Brenner motorway has also enjoyed tariff increases, for the truth of little more than inflation, but still higher. Perhaps, indeed, we would certainly be more competitive if the money that goes forward did not end up in the pockets of a participant, which we understand is very close to someone, being controlled by local authorities, whose government is easy to identify in the hands of who it is. I am therefore satisfied, for the points I have mentioned, with the answers I have received, but I would point out that even these acts, which had been requested since January last (in fact, they had been requested a year and a half earlier), have not yet been obtained, although I have requested access to acts under the law that should protect every citizen; the Committee on Access is also late in giving me an answer. I would hope that the government will have the transparency that we always talk about: we should talk about it less and practice it more.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u39	The following are questions 3-02728 and 3-02941 on the allocation of bluefin tuna fishing quotas. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the similar issue raised in the questions, I felt it appropriate to reply together. We are aware of the importance and delicacy of the issue raised by the interrogators, but it must be pointed out that the current international and European provisions relating to the subject set out precise limits to the number of national fleets (circulation and palangaro) authorised to fish for bluefin tuna. In fact, the current ICCAT Recommendation No 14-04 further confirmed, for the three-year period 2015-2017, the general principle of freezing fleets (freezing). In particular, for the tuna sector, it was not allowed to increase the number of authorised operators, compared to that already operating in the previous two years 2013-2014. Moreover, Regulation No 72 of 22 January 2016 confirmed to Italy, for the current year, a maximum number of 12 authorised tuna vessels and 30 vessels in the palangaro sector. In the light of these provisions, the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy (MIPAAF) had to align itself with these limitations, subject to the failure of the competent European institutions to approve the planned annual fishing plan and the consequent impossibility of starting the current campaign. Nevertheless, I can assure the questioners that they will continue the work of MIPAAF in Europe to overcome these limitations and to increase the number of authorised operators. Having said that, I would like to point out that the recent judgment No 1100 of the TAR Lazio in 2015 considered that the current regime does not violate free competition, as it applies supranational reference legislation and the principle of consequentiality for the pursuit of the priority objective of the common fisheries policy. This, in order to ensure the conservation of the fish resource by means of a strict fishing effort containment process and the consolidation between environmental sustainability and the entrepreneurial profitability of the fishing activity with the achievement, by 2022, of the maximum sustainable yield. It should also be borne in mind that the legitimate expectations of operators not authorised to catch bluefin tuna (including so-called artisanal fleets) can already be met today through so-called by-catches. In fact, with the current fishing year, in addition to having obtained a further increase (six tons) compared to 2015, of the quota (divided quota) intended for their coverage, the aforementioned operators also benefited from an increase in the anticipated annual limit (from 750 to 900 kilograms per year per boat), without prejudice to the percentage of five percent allowed, when landing, from the aforementioned supranational regulatory framework. The Ministry will continue, with the greatest commitment, on the one hand, to protect the fish resource, and on the other - as mentioned above - to ensure accessibility and equal conditions for operators in the fisheries sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u43	LAI (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for his answer, and I cannot say that I am completely satisfied with it. I would like to point out three issues in relation to what the Deputy Minister has represented, which I know I do not have the delegation to fisheries, but which, however, in this case answers the question. When it comes to freezing tuna quotas, it is not just about freezing boats themselves, it is about freezing the tonnage of tuna quotas. In Italy, although ICCAT recommendations said otherwise, namely that the quantity of that type of fishing had to be reduced, precisely because it was particularly violent, it has risen from 1,370 tonnes for tuna in 2012 alone to even 2,050 tonnes planned for the current year. Still, it is true that the 2015 ruling provides that the supranational reference legislation gives these indications, but every year each Government sends a list of the boats that are authorized. In this regard I would point out that other countries, for example Spain and France, in these years, exactly in 2014, 2015 and 2016, despite the fact that they started from a number of boats far superior to the Italian ones (42 boats in Italy, 130 in Spain and 200 in France) have further increased the fishing authorisations, obviously not of tuna, precisely because it is a violent fishing and therefore blocked, but for the other boats. I would also point out that the six tonnes - which of course are a rather small size - of ancillary catch that have been authorised, have in fact gone, along with the others, to those who already had fishing authorisations, in this way limiting further, unfortunately, the possibility for boats that make accidental fishing without having the authorisation of fishing not to be fined, so much so that to date, that is to say, in the middle of the year, the quantities of accidental fishing quota have already ended. I appreciate the fact that the Ministry has an opening for further clearance. I would point out that an environmental theme begins to exist, because when the authorisations for boats are concentrated in four regions, and Liguria and Sardinia, which are the first Regions to receive the entry of tuna coming from the Atlantic, do not have a single fishing authorisation - and I say only one - this changes the environment of the sea, with an excess of tuna that in fact destroy the surrounding environment. The same concentration was also the object of protest in Sicily, because the increase in the quotas for small-scale fishing, also called for at European level, thanks to the approval, in the ICCAT recommendations of an amendment proposed by a Ligurian MEP, Mr Briano, did not find application in Italy, despite being able to find immediate application. I shall conclude with one final remark. In Italy a further mistake has been made, in my opinion, that the Ministry should take into account. The increase in the share of sport fishing - which has not been done in other countries, where, on the contrary, it has been reduced - produces nothing but an evolution that weakens the system of organized and artisanal fishing at the expense of those who instead of fishing make it just a hobby. However, we will await these new openings from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u46	ORRU' (PD). Madam President, unfortunately I cannot speak, because my question concerns fixed traps. I thank the Deputy Minister, but I am sorry to have been called, because his answer has nothing to do with the subject of my question. By linking me in part to Mr Lai's speech, the Government this year, after a meeting of the Council of European Ministers, has obtained the maintenance of three further traps of the six fixed ones planned in Europe, of which three were likely to be cancelled. This has meant that, precisely for the allocation of quotas of fixed traps, we have at this moment, in Italy, six authorized traps, of which only one in Sicily, that of Favignana, which is the subject of my question and has no authorized tuna quotas. The three traps can only carry out tourist activities. This is also good, because the important thing is to have achieved the result and not to have erased the story. Let me say that Favignana has a great history of tuna traps and tuna fishing. It is, however, very contradictory to have allowed to make tourism traps in an absolutely sustainable way (nothing violent) and not to allow that territory also to have an economy behind all this. It is true what Deputy Minister Olivero said, that he does not even have the delegation to fisheries and that I therefore thank doubly. It should have been undersecretary Castiglione, who has the delegation to fisheries, who responds. I have made several requests to the Ministry, because we would like to understand what are the intentions in the matter of quota redistribution, which have been increased. It is true that the European Community decides, but it is also true that Italy can decide on redistribution within the same quota. These measures are adopted by ministerial decrees and by the executives of the ministries. I believe that it is not even so complicated to commit to giving answers shortly to a territory and, to want to be even more precise, to carry on a part of the important history of our country. Thank you, however, Mr. Deputy Minister. His answer has served at this point to explain live what he meant.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u47	If the Deputy Minister wishes, he can send Senator Orrù more specific elements, perhaps in writing, or he can re-examine the subject in the Chamber. I note that, at the request of the honourable Member, the reply to Question No 3-02885, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators, is postponed to another sitting. Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u48	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-645.ana.u49	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 27 June, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.25 p.m.
