ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 10 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, despite the slow reading of Secretary Scoma to take time, I still feel obliged to ask for the vote on the Minutes, after checking the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 11.25 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and resumed at 11.25 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u9	IN MAY (CoR). Madam President, I renew my request for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 11.45 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.25 a.m. and resumed at 11.45 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u11	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u14	MUSSINI (Mixed). Madam President, I renew my request for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u15	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u16	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u17	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11:46 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u18	I communicate that on November 11, 2016 the following bill was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Economics and Finance: "Conversion to the law of Decree-Law No 205 of 11 November 2016, introducing new urgent interventions in favour of the populations of the territories affected by the seismic events of 2016" (2594).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u19	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00549 by Senator Marin and other senators 1-00591 by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators 1-00686 by Senator De Petris and other senators 1-00687 by Senator Munerato and other senators 1-00688 by Senator Barani and other senators 1-00690 by Senator Parente and other senators and 1-00691 by Senator Catalfo and other senators on minimum pensions. I call Senator Malan to explain motion No 549.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u20	Madam President, those who do not comply with a judgment of a judge are certainly subject to serious sanctions, at least to the enforced execution of what the judge has determined. What higher judge than the Constitutional Court? Well, in our country, the Constitutional Court, in its judgment, established at the time that the rule approved in 2011 was unconstitutional so that pensions above 1,443 euros gross monthly should not be re-evaluated. The Constitutional Court, deemed unconstitutional this rule, has therefore ordered all pensioners who had been affected by this blockade to be returned. The current government intervened with a decree-law with which it returned about an eighth - perhaps even less - than the Constitutional Court has established. How do we define someone who doesn't apply a judge's sentences? Everything but a guardian of legality. Yet the word "legality" is often heard as an exponents of this Government; however, when it came to the facts, this was not implemented because, according to them, there is no money. In my opinion, there are no reasons why this is decided because for other things they have found themselves. I am referring to the 20 billion jobs act, which have produced a huge benefit to entrepreneurs, who have hired more or less those who hired before (just that instead of paying them they are now largely borne by the taxpayer) or to the 5-6 billion that have been found - as the Government itself says - for the reception of immigrants, taken to the vicinity of the Libyan beaches to have more. The money was found to give a billion to the non-EU countries, to whom the baby bonus was extended. I mean, for the things you want the money you find, while for pensioners you didn't find it. A number of appeals were lodged against this decree-law by persons who were affected by this measure and who did not receive what the Constitutional Court had established. It seems to me quite likely that the Constitutional Court will intervene, but it is not known, because the Constitutional Court has in the meantime changed somewhat, so it could also take a few different decisions. There are so many pensioners who expect justice, and it is true that justice has already had it, because the Constitutional Court has already ruled on the basis of appeals that have certainly cost time, effort and money: obviously, to prepare the appeals and to bring them forward in the various instances before the Constitutional Court has its costs; but in the face of these costs the Government is failing. What about at this point? We do what a political opposition force can do: we present a motion for a resolution asking the Government to fully apply judgment No 70 of 2015, which states that adjustments to the cost of living must be paid to the extent that the Constitutional Court has established and not to the extent that the Government has decided, "to the forehead." Secondly, we are asking that they be provided for in the form of outgoing flexibility without penalising workers through the reduction of pension treatment and through the loans and loans that aspiring pensioners have to bear. The latter do not want to retire just because they are in a hurry to go fishing instead of going to work, but because they may have lost their jobs and are unable to find another one, even for age reasons. We also call for an increase in pensions for disadvantaged persons and a reduction in the level of taxation of pension treatment. Reduce them how? To begin with, there would be a very simple one, which would also be a remedy for a clear unconstitutionality of another measure, i.e. to cease the discrimination whereby, between two persons with equal income, the employee - of course if he has certain requirements - takes the famous 80 euros, while the pensioner is not, and this is clearly unconstitutional. Only in this case, too, it has not yet been possible to go to the Constitutional Court with an appeal in this regard, partly because the costs are certain but the benefits are uncertain, since the Government does not apply the judgments of the Constitutional Court. So that is the spirit of the request that we make very precisely with our motion for a resolution. There is something else that does not depend on us: the outcome of the referendum. It seems clear to me that a pensioner who wants to put a cross on the arrears due to him has a very short way to do so: to vote yes to the referendum, so we will have the armor of the Constitutional Court in a short time, which will depend on the government: so there will be no more sentences that bother the government and the government will be able to keep illegally the money that the Constitutional Court said that it was necessary to give to pensioners. With a constitutional court serving the government, these things can happen. Instead, if the referendum does not pass, we will still have an independent Constitutional Court, with all its limitations, of course, but independent. I believe that this is a protection for everyone: today it is a protection for pensioners, tomorrow it can be a protection for anyone else. In other words, having sound institutions that work well also serves in very practical matters such as, for example, receiving what is due to pension (and what is due not according to the calculation of the pensioner, but according to what has established nothing less than the Constitutional Court). I would like to see if other governments had so openly violated a judgment of the Constitutional Court as to what would have happened: a rogue, illegality, democracy trampled on, judges of the Constitutional Court trampled on. The Renzi Government has done this and, apparently, this does not create major problems for the great press, which supports the Government; it does not create major problems for the political forces of government; it creates a major problem for pensioners who are being robbed of the fruit of their work. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u21	I call Senator Bonfrisco to explain motion No 591.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u22	Madam President, I would also like to outline a motion for a resolution based on the considerations that Senator Malan has just made. From the judgment that declared the constitutional illegitimacy of that measure on equalization comes a serious damage, a serious damage to many pensioners. It should be pointed out that out of a total of 16,533,152 pensioners, according to INPS data at 31 December 2012, 5,242,161 were excluded from the revaluation, i.e. one out of three pensioners. Following the judgment, the Government intervened with a decree-law, proceeding to a partial, very partial - equal to about 10% - restitution of arrears and a limited reconstruction of pension treatments. This was not exactly correct because, as a result of this, thousands of citizens, seeing their rights violated and considering the decree-law an escamotage in order not to comply with the judgment of the Consulta, have initiated appeals in the courts of merit. And here comes the beauty, because in addition to the judgment of the Court the courts of Brescia, Milan, Palermo and Genoa, the Court of Auditors of Emilia-Romagna, Marche and Abruzzo have accepted the appeals of citizens against the INPS, expressing reference to constitutional jurisprudence. All the judgments raised the question of constitutional illegitimacy, that of Decree-Law No 65 of 2015. Most likely the Consulta in expressing herself will not differ from what stated in the previous judgment n. 70, having already then found that the limits of reasonableness and proportionality have been crossed with consequent prejudice to the purchasing power and the treatment itself and irretrievable nullification of the expectations legitimately nourished by the worker for the time after the cessation of his activity. In this judgment there is practically the heart of any policy relating to pensions that we can consider fair, just, proportional and reasonable. Therefore, our motion for a resolution calls in the first place for the full implementation of the Court's judgment, namely that the right acquired by citizens in the matter of pensions should be respected. That is why we call for it to be fully implemented, as well as to be faithful and loyal to the principle that a judgment of the Constitutional Court can only be applied immediately. We know that all this will have to find a point of mediation with the extraordinary needs of public finance, however - it has already been said - they are chosen. It's all about choices. It is clear that the issue of pensions requires a structural and broad-based approach, capable on the one hand of ensuring sustainability, but, on the other hand, of the dignity of leaving work. I say this, Madam President, knowing that I have a careful listener in you on issues such as these, especially in view of the structural weakness of women's contributions, which drags on the pension front all the difficulties already encountered in the labour market. However, the point for everyone is that of the structural adjustment of the minimum pension to the real cost of living. In this regard, it should be recalled that the increase in treatment, introduced by the Berlusconi Government on 1 January 2002, brought the cheque from the previous 392 euros to 516 euros per month. It is necessary to ask today whether, in the end, the citizen who receives a minimum pension is more likely to receive the fourteenth, as we read in the most recent interventions of the Government, or to see the minimum treatment increased, which over the course of these fourteen years - fourteen years - has not been adequate. We believe that it is better for the citizen to see the pension adjusted to the real cost of living, because the monthly amount he would receive would certainly be a much higher increase on an annual basis than that which the Government intends to provide with the only fourteenth. I would not, therefore, like this fourteenth, which sounds so good, at the end of the day, to be yet another distortion on the pension front and not to produce the desired results. By our motion, we call for the reform of the pension system according to the characteristics of the labour market, by bringing together employment, business and family policies, by providing, as the first pillar, for the establishment of a basic treatment, equal for all and informed of the amount of the social allowance to be adjusted periodically to the cost of living, a second pillar, with payments made on the basis of a uniform contribution rate of 25-26%, for employees and self-employed, which give rise to a compulsory pension of a contributory nature, as the third pillar, the financing of a possible supplementary pension, where the worker can opt for the voluntary payment of the corresponding contribution quota of certain points not paid to the compulsory INPS pension. We believe that the government can and should read carefully the texts of these motions because I am sure that, since it is a subject that is of cross-cutting interest to everyone, first of all a government that wants to indicate to its citizens a positive future path, it can only accept the motions presented this morning by the opposition. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u23	I call Senator Uras to explain motion 686.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u24	Madam President, as you know, the Italian pension system is not organised in a contributory form: the contributory system has only been introduced for the quantification of certain social security treatments. However, the Italian pension system operates to satisfy a principle contained in our Constitution, particularly in Article 3, for which it is the task of the Republic to remove the economic and social obstacles which effectively limit the freedom and equality of citizens and prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization. This dictation is accompanied by the principle, always contained in our Constitution, of guaranteeing all citizens a free and dignified life. This principle is also based on the so-called minimum social security treatment, that is, the one intended to ensure survival, but, as I said, our Constitution requires that survival corresponds to a dignified life. It is for this reason that we have tabled motion 686, to call on the Government to comply with the general regulatory requirements as well as with the judgments recently issued by the Constitutional Court on the adjustment of social security treatment, but above all to call it to comply with this principle, on the assumption that most of the conditions of poverty are linked precisely to social security treatment and minimum social security treatment. In 2015, 1,582,000 families are considered to be in absolute poverty: how many of them live with the only income of a minimum pension? Lots of it. In 2015, 4.598,000 people are in absolute poverty. How many of these live their condition even after years of low paid work, often lived in a precarious way and which did not give the opportunity to mature a certain and dimensionful work pension adapted to the needs of life? Lots of it. And it is mainly for this reason that we have tabled a motion, asking the Government to pay attention to the objectives that we would like to see transformed into commitments for the Government itself. In particular, we think that already in the budget law under discussion in these hours and these days in the House, an increase in minimum pensions should be envisaged, bringing the value of the monthly allowance above the poverty line, thus about 1,000 euros net, intervening in this also with a reduction in the tax levy (for example, the 80 euros have been mentioned). We ask the Government to act through the maximum involvement of the social partners, because it is necessary to recover the value of the intermediate bodies and the trade union movement. I say this as an appeal to the Government: the trade unions, the associative system, where the most living interests of people are organized, must be recovered. We need to have a more direct and engaging dialogue with these people who were acting through the needs of our citizens and our workers. Finally, we commit the Government to find, in the budget law, a definitive solution to the problems arising from the Fornero law. I say this to all those who today show some surprise about the results of that reform: the intervention of the Constitutional Court, that is the annulment of the revaluation, concerns that phase of government of the country, not the latter. At that stage, the pension reform was the last chapter of a progression that lasted years and that made workers, the labour system, businesses and the employer pay, through the provision, the burden of the crisis, the attempt to get out of it and reduce the public debt of our country. I think that this has been a wrong path, which has led to a contraction in public spending on consumption which has, in turn, caused a contraction in the country's productive capacity and I think that on that road we must return to review the Fornero law and its effects all (to name one, the one related to the so-called "96" share of the school workers), also in order to allow this country to proceed towards modernization through the entry into the labour market of many "young people." I am talking about young people among quotes, because they are now adults, who are forty years old and have an academic education, a path of studies and experiences made abroad that would be useful for modernising the country and instead are relegated to a corner. There has been a conflict, also in these months and in these last days, between generations, conflict that has been harmful to the country, while we must recover a good synthesis between fathers and children, between those who live a precarious working condition - young people - and encounter great difficulties in entering the labour market while having certainly important qualities and those who come from a labour market that has been progressively impoverished from the point of view of guarantees and therefore of hopes and incentives to do better, to do more for where you work, for those who work, for how you produce and for who you produce, but also for the whole country. Because our Republic, according to Article 1 of the Constitution, which is not touched by the revision at all, is a democratic Republic, founded on labour, because it identifies precisely in this category of social subjects, those who devote themselves to the production of wealth, the true backbone and backbone of the country and also the hopes of growth of our people. For this reason and under these conditions, we have tabled the motion which I have just outlined. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u25	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Libero Andreotti" of Pescia, in the province of Pistoia. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u26	I call Senator Munerato to explain motion 687.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, President Renzi has announced important revisions to the pension system, starting with where it is most needed, namely in the audience of the millions of elderly people forced to live with just over 500 euros a month. I would like you all to pause for a moment to think about what it means to lead an existence with 500 euros a month, perhaps after a life of labor. Think about it: 500 euros a month means living with 100 euros a week, with which sometimes you have to buy medicines, as well as paying the bills. If a State that allows this seems fair to you, then I cannot agree with you, because a State that abandons its old people is facing a future of social disintegration. Remember that one day you will be old too and maybe someone will give you the right to live with 500 euros a month. Would you be able to? Would that be unfair? And why is it right for those millions of Italians and Italians who have to deal with this reality every day? Unfortunately, at the moment we do not know what the actual impact of pension reform will be, since the maneuver is under consideration and the scrutiny of Parliament and the European Commission also calls for downward changes compared to what is contained in the Government's text. The fact is that, even if the text remained the one presented by the government, the maneuver would be insufficient: 7 billion euros in three years are less than half of what would be needed for the reform that has been announced. The undeniable problem is the Fornero reform, which has produced a devastating jackal: as well as retiring ever later, pensioners have also lost much of their purchasing power, becoming poorer and poorer. We know that the older you get, the more you need care and care, the more you can no longer afford many of our elders. I am horrified when a colleague said that, if they need to, our elders can be mortgaged. A house they may have bought after paying the mortgage for 40 years. Too bad, moreover, that the colleague escapes that many, many old people do not have a house to mortgage, because in their lives they have not even had the opportunity to pay a mortgage. Not to mention, the people who were trapped in a distorted working system, who found themselves exploited by their employers without the latter paying their contributions, and who now, at the age of sixty, find themselves with a handful of flies. And then, let's not hide it: it's ridiculous to say the least to have to borrow at sixty-three years to pay pension contributions, after years of hard work and sacrifices spent working. If we really want to stand firm on the ground and face reality, we must not forget that, today more than ever, with the raging of the crisis, the pensions of grandparents are the main social shock absorber of the families affected by the tragedy of unemployment, especially the youth crisis. Once again, we ask the government to intervene forcefully and to make cuts in pensions so called golden and to help those who live with minimum pensions. With the motion that the Movement Do! has presented we commit the Government to find the necessary financial resources to recognize, albeit with a criterion of graduality in compliance with the objectives of public finance, full and effective implementation to the judgment n. 70 of 2015 of the Constitutional Court, previewing in favor of the holders of pensions hit by the block the integral and total return of the accrued amounts. We also commit the Government to intervene on the so-called minimum pensions not only in terms of reducing taxation, but also in terms of increasing the amount of treatment, in order to allow an effective recovery of the purchasing power of the beneficiaries of the benefit, in relation to the actual development of the cost of living. We also call for the appropriate regulatory measures to be taken to ensure that holders of minimum pensions are granted an increase in the amount in proportion to silent contributions, however paid throughout their working life and not counted on treatment, as well as to restore the correct hierarchy of Patronage Institutions, entitled to operate, under Law No 152 of 30 March 2001, to protect the interests of the weak party, i.e. pensioners, under the directives of the Ministry of Labour. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to leave the rhetoric of pseudo-electoral propaganda and ask the Government to accept the motion of the Fare Movement! All he does is ask for the fairness that everyone fills their mouths with. [[Applause from the Mixed-Fare Group!]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u28	I call Senator D'Anna to explain motion No 688.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u29	Madam President, the pension issue is finally at the heart of the political debate. A few years ago I listened to the intervention of Senator Uras, of whom I have great esteem and respect, for the seriousness and consistency he shows towards the ideas he is the bearer of, and I must contest at the root what the Senator has just said, namely that, on the basis of Article 3 of the Constitution, the Italian pension system should not be based on the contributory system, namely that the pensions of this nation should be figurative elements and not linked to the contribution of the individual citizen. This, in itself, would create - as it already creates - a great discrepancy: Article 3, read and interpreted in the terms in which Senator Uras read and interpreted it, would create first-class citizens and second-class citizens. In fact, the millions of self-employed in this nation all have, without exception, a pension which is exactly the mirror of the contribution they paid during their work. Therefore, there would be an article 3 devoted to state employees or public administration employees, which does not apply, as general protection, to self-employed workers. On the other hand, I would like to say to Senator Uras that the reform of the Constitution is necessary not so much for bicameralism, but because this Constitution, the result of a compromise between the social communist and Catholic and liberal forces, has in its articulations, precisely according to the compromise, rules that can be read and interpreted in a diametrically opposite way. For me, Article 3 means equality of opportunity, not equality of care through pension institutions. Wealth producers must have no obligation to distribute anything to anyone but to pay taxes. Neither Article 1 - which is another great nonsense, the result of that compromise - can be understood as Senator Uras interprets it, because work does not belong to the general principles: it is like saying that Italy is a democratic Republic based on the good health of citizens. Great values, supreme values are progress and freedom, not health or work. This is to say that that reading of Article 3, that social-communist demagogy, led the Italian pension system to grant 7 million state pensioners salaries that go beyond the contributions paid. The employees of the State, until the time when this institution was in use and applied, take a pension that is 60% higher than the contributions paid; this is worth 93 billion euros per year. This 93 billion - not the 130-140 million of the propaganda campaign against the salaries of parliamentarians - that the state allows to pay for pensions not linked to contributions, would allow to bring the minimum pensions to 1,000 euros per month, without hurting. Senator Uras recalled the generational pact: well, a few days ago, the president of the INPS said that, as the accounts are, future generations will have to work up to 75 years in order to be able to receive a pension, because, if from the piggy bank there are those who take 60 percent more than what they put, it means that the grandparents and fathers are stealing and eating the pension to the grandchildren. Can these LaPalissian truths be said? Can we say that there are 1.5 million retired babys in this country that cost us 10 billion euros? Can we tell her, all these things, or do we always pretend we don't know, hypocritically complaining about the 480 euros we give to a pensioner? If there is no equation, if there is still this idea that the State should have a social and welfare function, as described by the good Uras, the institution of pensions in this nation will work as follows: the self-employed are the fools of the situation and take exactly what they put in the piggy bank, except that the government does not put their hands on the coffers as well; the public workers, at this time, are those 7 million who up to a certain moment take the pension calculated on the last salary and that cost us about 93 billion more; then there are the public workers that that that that institution no longer see it applied (as in our case, where there are no more vitalities, but contributory pensions) and that therefore have lost that privilege; finally, there are the pariahs, the disinherited, that is the social pensioners to 400 euros per month. What did we mean by this motion, then? That the hypocrisy of concealing the figures is only for making euphonic speeches. The great appeal of socialism is due to the fact that everyone seems good. Who doesn't want to give more to the needy? But since there is no lunch that is not paid by someone else, when you make philanthropists you have to tell us from the pockets of those who want to take the money because, if it is always the same, philanthropists are the taxpayers who hunt the money, not Senator Uras, who invokes a salvific function of the welfare state and clientele (so much to call people and things by their own name). What did we write in our motion? First of all, the judgment of the Constitutional Court is wrong. As far as we are concerned, we must apply judgment No 70 of 2015, because if we have removed those who receive pensions over six times the minimum, we have probably done well, but the Constitutional Court says that there are acquired rights. In this nation, the real revolution is that which is done against acquired rights, because a right is acquired when it is economically sustainable and we are no longer in these conditions, but it must not be the Court to establish in point of law that the right is flexible depending on the savings that the Government intends to recover: if there is to be returned what has been badly removed, it must be returned to everyone, even those who take more than six times. Also because this pyramid is thinning as we go up and, therefore, overall savings are low. But in this country the law must apply, not the calculation of the Minister of Economy and Finance. Therefore, our motion is based on this criterion: that all should be returned to malt and that minimum pensions should be adjusted, even if they no longer recognise a right, as has been done in this case, to that part of people who have been rewarded in the time of fat cows from a pants state, to allocate those resources to the last and the needy. This is true distributive justice, nothing else. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u30	I call the Senator Parente to explain motion No 690.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u31	Madam President, we have already held this debate during the examination of Decree-Law No 65 of 2015, following the famous judgment No 70 of 2015, which declared the constitutional illegitimacy of Article 24 of Decree-Law No 201 of 6 December 2011. The judgment established that following the blockade of the equation: Therefore, fundamental rights related to the social security relationship, based on unambiguous constitutional parameters, are affected: the proportionality of the treatment of quiescence, understood as deferred remuneration (Article 36, first paragraph, of the Constitution) and the adequacy (Article 38, second paragraph, of the Constitution). The latter is to be understood as a definite, albeit not explicit, expression of the principle of solidarity referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution and at the same time as the implementation of the principle of substantive equality referred to in the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution. This is part of Judgment No 70. The Court, in recalling the legislator to respect the constitutional parameters of proportionality and adequacy in the matter of rights related to the social security relationship, points out that the warning of judgment n. 316 of 2010 on two main questions has not been heard: firstly, the fact that the permanent suspension of the equalisation mechanism, i.e. the frequent recurrence of measures aimed at suspending it, would expose the system to obvious tensions with the insurmountable principles of reasonableness and proportionality, since the main purpose of protection, inherent in the mechanism of equalisation, would be cracked, that which provides for a modular defence of the purchasing power of pensions, and, secondly, the generic nature of the provision censored to indicate precisely the financial requirements for which the legislator indicated a necessary balance with the rights of pensioners to equalisation. However, the Consulta has repeatedly admitted the legitimacy of legislative measures affecting the adjustment of the amounts of pension treatment, provided that these two principles are respected: reasonableness and proportionality. In this light, in fact, the judgment n. 70 of 2015 has intended to highlight the differences existing between what is provided for by article 24, paragraph 25, of Decree-Law n. 201 of 2011 and other similar provisions in this matter, in particular recalling article 1, paragraph 19, of Law n. 247 of 2007, according to which, for the year 2008, automatic revaluation was not granted to pension treatment greater than eight times the minimum INPS treatment. Therefore, it is recalled that mechanisms for blocking the automatic equalisation had already been introduced previously, which the Constitutional Court considered admissible: in particular, Article 59 of Law No 449 of 1997 established that the automatic equalisation of the estimated cost of living for the year 1998 for pension treatment exceeding five times the minimum INPS treatment and the Constitutional Court by Order No 256 of 2001 had declared the obvious unfoundedness of the question of constitutional legitimacy raised with reference to that provision, stating that: • the constitutional guarantee of the adequacy and proportionality of the pension treatment (Article 36) to which the instrument of automatic equalization is certainly finalized, shall meet the limit of the available resources. At this limit the Government and Parliament must standardise the legislation of expenditure with particular rigour in order to ensure the balance of the social security system. In the presentation of the motion at my first signature, it was considered appropriate to dwell on the constitutional jurisprudence regarding the balance between social benefit rights and economic and financial balance: the judgment n. 10 of 2015, of only three months prior to the judgment n. 70 of 2015, on the limitation of the retroactivity of the pronunciation on the illegality of the Robin tax, declared the cessation of the effects of the norms declared illegitimate from the day of the publication only in the Official Journal of the judgment n. 10 of 2015, in order to contest all the principles and rights at stake, in order to prevent the alteration of the economic availability to the disadvantage of some taxpayers and to the benefit of others (...) guaranteeing the respect of the principles of equality and solidarity, which, for their founding character, occupy a privileged position in the balance with the other constitutional values. The Government and Parliament move in this area in the balance of constitutional rights. In the debate following Judgment No. 70 of 2015, many authoritative lawyers pointed out that it did not take due account of Article 81 of the Constitution and that, following the entry into force of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 2012, there is a need for 'graduality in the implementation of constitutional values that impose significant burdens on the state budget', as stated by the Court in Judgment No. 260 of 1990. The automatic equalisation mechanism for pensions must therefore be assessed in the light of the guidelines of constitutional jurisprudence, according to which, while it is true that there is a need to ensure a reasonable correlation between pension dynamics and wage dynamics, it is equally true to exclude an automatic and totalizing right to the revaluation of pension treatment, especially when this right can be otherwise modulated, by income bands and limited time. Decree-Law No 65 of 2015, submitted by the Government following the judgment n. 70 and subsequently converted into law, intervened on the blocking of indexation in the years 2012 and 2013, in response to a dramatic contingent financial situation, establishing a different indexation mechanism, which took into account the financial compatibility in order to implement the principles set out in the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 70 of 2015, in compliance with the principle of budgetary balance and the objectives of public finance, ensuring the protection of the essential levels of benefits related to civil and social rights, also in function of the safeguarding of intergenerational solidarity, which has been so evoked. In the course of the examination of the decree-law by Parliament, it was emphasized - debate that we have already carried out in this House - that the restoration, sic et simpliciter, of the previous mechanism would have determined burdens for 17,6 billion euros for the year 2015 and for beyond 4 billion euros to regime, beginning from 2016, figures incompatible with the financial and economic state of the Country, with the risk of an opening of an infringement procedure for violation of the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact European, as well as of a serious damage to the weakest sections of the population, beginning with pensioners with lower cheques. Hence the choice of politics, based on the judgments of the Constitutional Court. With the aforementioned decree-law, the legislator has made choices that have favoured, with the return of the lack of equalization, the average-low incomes, that is, an audience of about 3.7 million pensioners, predicting - it is worth remembering - the indexing to the extent of 100 percent for pensions up to three times the minimum, to the extent of 40 percent for pension treatments altogether greater than three times the minimum treatment, to the extent of 20 percent for pension treatments altogether more than four times the minimum treatment INPS, to the extent of 10 percent for pension treatments altogether exceeding five times the minimum treatment INPS, and not recognizing any equalization for treatments of total amount more than six times the minimum INPS. The choice made by the policy with Decree-Law No 65 of 2015, in compliance with the judgments, the balance of constitutional rights and the principles of graduality and proportionality and compatibility with financial resources, was exactly that of not touching the average-low incomes and of graduating the blockade of the equation. With this motion we ask the Government to introduce a system of equalization based on the "amount scales," confirming, from 2019, the return to the mechanism already provided for by Law No 388 of 23 December 2000. This request to the Government, since the restoration of a consultation table with the trade unions which is fundamental in matters such as this, is also borrowed from the minutes of agreement signed a few months ago between the Government and trade union organizations, agreement with which the so-called two stages in pension matters have been established. As we know, many (almost all) of the first phase have entered the budget law, which this year will have a substantial chapter on pensions. In the second phase we discuss and deepen, together with the social partners, a further request that we make to the Government with the motion under consideration, which asks to consider the possibility of using a different index for the revaluation of pensions, more representative of the consumption structure of pensioners, aimed at protecting the purchasing power of the social treatment of pensioners and to assess the possibility, taking into account budgetary constraints, of recovering part of the non-indexation for the purpose of the one-off revaluation of the mountaineer in 2019. In essence, our request is based on the need to recognise the right of pensioners to have the pension equalization, but with gradual and proportionality and, above all, taking into account the current general scenario, in which the trade unions also discussed with the Government in this regard. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u32	We greet a delegation of mayors from the province of Pavia, in particular the municipalities of Santa Cristina and Bissone, Monticelli Pavese and Miradolo Terme. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u33	I call Senator Catalfo to explain motion No 691.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today I listened carefully to the speeches made by my fellow senators, who presented their requests and explained their motions. I would like to remind you of all the first articles of the Italian Constitution, in which it is said that Italy is a Republic founded on labour. Article 3 states that every citizen must be able to participate in the social and political life of his country. Clearly, I summarized them synthetically. In recent years little or nothing has been done to guarantee these rights to Italian citizens. Today we are talking about pensions and, as everyone knows, the judgment n. 70 of 2015 has declared illegal the rule that excluded for the years 2012 and 2013 the automatic equalization for pension treatments of total amount more than three times the minimum treatment INPS. The Constitutional Court in its ruling declaring this provision unlawful indicated that the rule which was the subject of the judgment was detrimental to the fundamental rights related to the social security relationship, based on unambiguous constitutional parameters such as the proportionality of the treatment of quiescence, understood as deferred remuneration and adequacy (Article 36, paragraph 1 and Article 38, paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Charter, respectively). Well, on 21 May 2015, the Government issued Decree-Law No 65, but decided that the repayment of arrears should be only partial. In essence, therefore, it does not fully acknowledge the judgment of the Constitutional Court. In fact, the Government arranges a reimbursement by bands, excluding the holders of pensions exceeding 2,810 euros and providing for a refund ranging from 150 euros to 800 for those below this threshold. In this way, the budgetary requirements would be thrown out in order not to acknowledge the judgment. The 5 Star Movement, precisely because the norm put in place is unfair, presented more than one motion. This is the second point and in the first point of the motion that we are debating today calls for the full implementation of judgment No 70 of 2015. I would like to refer to Senator Parente, who quoted in her speech the previous decision of the Constitutional Court n. 316 of November 2010. That sentence - I remind the members of the Democratic Party and the Parent Senator - said that you could block indexing for a year and only for pensions that exceeded eight times the minimum treatment. So, the decree-law doesn't do the same. In the motion for a resolution we call for full implementation of judgment No 70 and, furthermore, for the threshold of minimum treatment to be raised. To date, in fact, it is well below the poverty line. We refer to Article 3 of the Italian Constitution, according to which every Italian has the right to live a dignified life, even more so if retired and after a life of sacrifice and work. You probably have the right to live quietly and take care of your family. This is also an increased value and increases the value of Italy because, if you can take care of the family, you have healthier families, you have grandchildren that grow in a quieter way and generations that can think of the future. We have desperate generations and grandparents who have to save on their pension of 500 euros per month in order to be able to help children and grandchildren who should have a job thanks to the much praised and declaimed jobs act, but who, in fact, do not. The government has found 20 billion for jobs act, but it has increased the employment rate only in percentages and not in real facts. This emerges from consumption data, which are very low and have not increased. It is clear that this figure of slight increase in employment is fictitious: it is more workers working with vouchers than workers working with real pay and decent wages. So we are asking, as we have been asking for for twenty months in this House and in the Commission, for work (where the measure on the income of citizenship or guaranteed minimum income - as we want to call it - lies for twenty months), for minimum pensions to be raised to at least a figure above the threshold of risk of poverty, as defined not by the 5 Star Movement, but by the National Statistical Institute (ISTAT) and the European Statistical Institute (Eurostat). It is not that we are asking for science fiction: we are asking for what exists in all other European countries already. Do we want to consider what I could see with my own eyes last week? On a mission for the Council of Europe, I went to Finland where I was able to observe (the photograph was shown to me) how the Finnish pension system, including the pension system, works. There the minimum treatment is 700 euros per month and in addition the pensioner is also entitled to the housing contribution in case it is below the poverty risk threshold. Furthermore, I would like to remind this House that in 2014 among the seven violations of the European Social Charter charged to Italy by the Committee on Social Rights of the Council of Europe had been reported precisely the amount of minimum pensions, which this House and this Government do not want to face, because it is better to keep Italian families blackmailed than to give them a decent life. And don't talk to me about budget and missing resources. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because this government, when it wanted to, found the resources. We therefore call for the minimum amount to be adjusted and for the possibility finally to be given to those who have contributed and worked for forty-one years to retire, finally leaving their place to those young people who are not deserved, Undersecretary Cassano, the internship of Unpaid Youth Guarantee, but rather deserve to be properly included in the world of work, accompanied by the correct active policies, which in all other European states are there, and which we still lack. The other missed investment of jobs act, the other failure of jobs act, the one we had to invest in and did not. We ask that this be done at last: have you worked forty-one years? Retire and give the place to those who are young, studied and so maybe he is no longer forced to leave Italy. In fact, there are hundreds of thousands of our young graduates with great skills that leave our country: these are the young people who leave Italy, those with the skills, those on which we have invested. All this means starting to think of a very different system and type of Italy, which really thinks of its citizens, as do the other European countries, as I saw with my own eyes last week in Finland. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u35	We greet the students and students of the Professional Institute for Hotel and Restaurant Services in Assisi, in the province of Perugia. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u36	I declare the debate open. Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the presentation of all the motions and I would say that the most pragmatic and probably most feasible one, which nevertheless recognises a principle of social solidarity and that intergenerational pact which must bind us is that of Senator Parente. It falls specifically and analyzes the point and the economic situation of our country; it analyses what has been achieved and which has been possible to achieve, in parallel with the fact that we try to equalize all pensions above really important figures, because over four or three times the minimum is not little. We think that today the employees and those who have a minimum job, a worker, earn 1,300 euros, so much less than four times the pensions; if the worker lives there, we can live at this difficult time the pensioner who takes four times the minimum. I therefore believe that the choice made in the motion and by the government in 2015, when it was decided to make an equalization only on certain types of pension and to re-evaluate only those, is the most appropriate choice. Senator Catalfo spoke of Finland, and said that there the minimum pensions are 700 euros; perhaps she did not take into account that in Finland 700 euros are like here in Italy 350 euros. I agree with the increase in minimum pensions, but they must be increased in a mechanism that gives those who actually need it and not give it by spreading horizontally and equally for everyone. We must therefore make a precise, calm and thoughtful assessment because those who must have and need money to overcome and get out of poverty, well come, if not, they give money in a way that may not be fair. I always return to the initial point; today there are people who work and certainly take less than three times the minimum pension. I can think of all the civil servants, who are much smaller than pensioners. The latter are in fact 16 million in Italy and probably vote for Chamber and Senate, if the reform does not change. On the other hand, public workers are 3 million or more and therefore have less appeal. Public workers who have not seen their contracts renewed for seven years and who perhaps, in my view, at this difficult historical time, need to re-evaluate their salaries of pensioners. In fact, it is assumed that people in a working life probably have more to deal with because they have a family and much more. Perhaps, when you are retired, you can deal with life equally, even with something less. I therefore agree with the motion tabled by Senator Parente and would like to add my signature to it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-722.ana.u38	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.52 p.m.
