ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2500, already approved by the House of Deputies. Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio.]] I would ask those Members who do not want to follow the debate to lower their voices or move away, because otherwise the speakers are unable to make their speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u5	Madam President, we broke up on this measure just yesterday and voted - alas, rejecting it - on a point of reference. We said: the theme is not trivial. We are examining a surreal measure to say the least... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u6	Excuse me, Senator Bernini, but it is not possible to intervene with this background noise. Colleagues, those who want to chat in this tone must leave the Chamber, otherwise I ask you to respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u7	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Madam President, you are very kind. As I said to my colleagues, we have left ourselves voting - alas against - the question of constitutionality to a measure that shows in itself its incompatibility with the Constitution. In the Commission we have defined this - and we repeat it in this House, because we must all be aware of what we are doing - as a surreal measure to say the least. Mr Migliore - and I am sorry, Mr Migliore - has already heard these words. It is a dichotomy measure, which consists of two separate parts. A first part, we consider it at least useless, because - as Mr Calderoli said yesterday - if we had simply wanted to extend a deadline, it would not have been necessary to uncomfortable a decree-law to do so. We have had so many "diligences" in which we could have included the extension of time, without making a special decree-law with which to entertain Parliament. Obviously this container was meant to produce a lot more content, and I will talk about this, when I deal with the second part of this dichotomy, which concerns the organic plants of the Ministry of Justice: a not insignificant subject, on which the Undersecretary Migliore has rightly measured himself in the Commission, but on which, forgive me, despite his expertise and his availability, he did not really convince us. The problem, with regard to the first part, relating to the telematic process, is in the absurdity of the way in which the Government - as we said yesterday - declared, with the usual assertiveness - and, dare I say, protect - of the President for the Council, that it would make the telematic process within the administrative jurisdiction, with digital signature, our flagship. That was declared two years ago. In the meantime - we have said - this flower has been "broken" in four successive delegations, made with four decrees-laws: precisely in this, colleagues, lies the unconstitutionality, which even in the total indifference of the Assembly yesterday we endorsed. We used four decree-laws to extend the end of the telematic administrative process, to the detriment of the users and citizens who believed in it. We would have expected much more and much better from the "telemac generation." At least, the telematic process had to be respected in its terms. On this point I would like to have as much fun as we have had in the Commission, generating interesting debates. The experimentation of the telematic administrative process has two characteristics. The first is to have already been done and to have, as far as administrative jurisdiction is concerned, also worked. The second is to represent a clear European commitment to which we have joined and which we have expressly endorsed for five years on this side, not only with regard to administrative jurisdiction, but also with regard to the much more costly and demanding ordinary justice, namely civil trials and criminal trials. Our tireless and unwavering President of the Council said that the telematic administrative process will be the opener and watershed to include digital signature in the ordinary process. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are still waiting for this icebreaker, watershed, icebreaker, to make its way through the ice of jurisdiction. I repeat that this is not just a constitutional malaise, a constitutional illegitimacy that we are endorsing and, therefore, something technical. All this has a strong political value, because this Government has a responsibility that must be assumed as a monopoly, because we do not want it, that is to be depriving users of the administrative process, and not only, of the right response to the demand for justice. We all know that one of the main diseases of our system is the lack of response from the judicial system, both civil and criminal or administrative, to which dramatic consequences are linked. In civil justice, the wait of twenty years for a sentence is a justice denied; and a justice denied is a non-justice. Having a suspension of their property rights for twenty years means that their professional and personal life, reputation, family relationships, proximity and condominium are interrupted. Not to mention the suspension of your rights from the criminal point of view. The following point too, Undersecretary Migliore, we stressed this and you agreed. In the administrative process are involved all those works so important to revive growth, to make the economy run and run in our country. All those small, medium and great works that can make our country great and that can bring foreign capital to our country. How many times have we had to see, in the last three years, foreign companies going away following appeals and appeals and never sentences, because they could not be right about their own claims! Not even his own rights, but his own demands! It has happened - alas - in many regions of the South, which would need so much grafting of foreign capitals, grafting of specific commodities capable of producing well-being, wealth and jobs. And all this is linked to administrative justice (and not only). So, Madam President, the Government has made many promises and two years ago it announced a procedure as it has already done. And we know that the world of Renzian proclamations is a beautiful world. It is a dream world where everything is already done before it is done. However, it is a beautiful world that breaks against the very hard wall of a reality that does not meet the needs of its citizens. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is a fact that we must not only acquire, but report and try to amend. We have tried to work together on this measure - I have said this and I repeat this - because we believe in the telematic administrative process, we believe in European commitments and that is why we abstained in the Commission. We believe that justice is one of the pins or fuses of the system if it does not work, so we have declared ourselves available and what have we seen? This brings us to the second part of the measure under consideration. In the Commission in the Chamber we saw the prodigious insertion of perhaps the most significant part of this container, which would otherwise make no sense in its contents. I wonder, in fact, why it was decided to make a decree-law for an extension that could be inserted everywhere. We understand that they have done so to regulate the grafting of organic plants at the Ministry of Justice to be devoted to new recruitments, which is just as meritorious. Mr Migliore, as we have said, we cannot but agree with the idea of adding 1,000 posts; Madam President, I have almost finished but I reserve the right to clarify this part in the explanation of vote. We cannot but agree to root organic plants; however, Madam President, Best Undersecretary, colleagues, not casually, not done as you say, and that is enough, without confrontation with anyone, without having a minimum of intercourse with Parliament, without understanding who will be put where, when, according to what objective criteria and according to what criteria of professionalism or retraining. There are at least four categories of subjects who could theoretically access roles that, according to government statements, should be banned through competition, but perhaps not. Madam President, I do not want to abuse your kindness. I leave the Assembly (which I imagine will not resist) in the suspense to see what will be the end of this assignment of roles, reserving to me to specify it better in the explanation of vote [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u9	Madam President, this measure shows that many of the clichés that are spoken about the work of the institutions are completely false. The commonplace is that the plague of the country and the reason why it is not as prosperous as others is that you do not make enough laws and do not make them fast enough; and the reason why laws are not made quickly would be the famous, mythical or mythological, endless shuttle of three or four years between House and Senate. What is the reason why this measure is under discussion today, August 3rd? The newspapers speak extensively of the very long holidays of the Italian Parliament which are thirty days old; in the meantime we salute our German colleagues who, since July 8, have taken the road to the beaches and their other favorite destinations, because since July 8, the Bundestag is on break and will resume work exactly when we take them back. However, Germany is perhaps more prosperous than Italy, in more than one respect, so the problem is not vacation. The reason why we are examining this measure instead of others is that the government for the fourth time asks for an extension of a period which it itself has set itself through a decree-law. The problem of the slowness of how things are implemented, of how a useful thing as the telematic process is implemented, is, in most cases, the Government. This measure is a sort of extract from the milleproroghe, which is a solid institution in our parliamentary work, but there is a habit of doing so only once a year. In this case, however, an extract must be made during the year. As has already been said, we do not understand why this is not done as an amendment to other measures. However in this case we have an inefficiency on the part of the Government, which in more evolved situations is ordinarily defined as executive power and which, in fact, does not execute. Too committed to making laws by taking over the prerogatives that the Constitution, in a crystal clear way, assigns to Parliament, too committed to doing what it should not do, does not do what it should do. At the same time, it calls for the deletion, in reality, of Parliament's powers of control and law-making through a wretched constitutional reform but, committed to this, it cannot fulfil what it itself has put itself through several decree-laws which required it to implement the measures so that the telematic process could take place. To this the House adds a huge amount of additional text, which is about six or seven times longer than the original decree-law: another beautiful way of lawmaking. Of course all this is always an initiative of the Government, which then complains of the slowness of the work. In short, today, once again, we have proof of the origin of the problem of the slowness through which the useful measures are implemented, such as this, that in other countries have already been in force for years. This measure stems from the first measure taken in 2010, at a time when we would have been on par with the most evolved European countries on the telematic process; in the meantime, however, the Government has allowed a deadline after the other and now it is urgent to make a decree-law; it is extraordinarily necessary and urgent (it is not irony, but it is what the Constitution provides as an imperative condition to be able to make a decree-law and here it is) to give itself some more time, because in the meantime the Government has slept. Here we have the measure of the efficiency of the government and of what the government would be after constitutional reform: an inefficient government, which makes the laws on its own, if it approves them alone, if it modifies them alone, without parliamentary intercourse, and then does not implement them. No, thank you. And no, thank you, also to this provision: the Government takes a move and really does what it has to do, instead of doing what it does not have to do. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this beginning of debate has given us some quite incredible jokes. On the one hand, we hear of the concern about the slowness of the processes by those who, in relation to the processes, having the responsibility of government, rather than making the laws ad personam did not and, on the subject of the slowness of the process, never produced a principle of innovation. On the other hand, to think that the slowness of the process is resolved in the telematic question is very daring, not to say - and this is certainly not the case of Senator Bernini - that it is the affirmation of those who do not know the machine of justice, of those who do not know that the telematics technique can help, but that the theme is much more radical. There has been an invective against constitutional reform completely unrelated to the context and completely free of charge, because what Senator Malan said, with all due respect, has no relation to the subject: it has been produced in a free invective against constitutional reform, also saying things that, compared to the reality of the facts, are absolutely contradictory. The question raised by the decree-law in question is that of the telematic process, to which I would like to ask whether, by emerging the need for an extension, this should be done on 30 December compared to 31 December or whether it should not be done six months earlier. It is clear, in fact, that these extensions cannot be announced at the last minute: it is not the shift of the tax return, but it is an extension of an overall system that must be set in motion. Therefore, if the extension is to be announced, it is clear that it must be announced before, so that the reorganisation process can take longer but, at the same time, more effective times. On the other hand, why should the end of the telematic process be extended? It must be extended because it is a very sensitive issue, which involves the whole system of justice: from lawyers to the judiciary to the judicial machinery as a whole. It is not easy, there are problems of efficiency, of guaranteeing the response of justice, of protection of rights. If you are not ready, a deadline is responsible for ensuring that you can better define and initiate the telematic process. This decree-law, in previewing the double binary, that is on the one hand the possibility to continue with the paper system and on the other to start already the telematic system, really seems like the last passage before the insertion of the telematic process in integral and exclusive way. The second issue that is so much criticized is that of measures to hire administrative staff from the Ministry of Justice. These are personnel who have certain qualifications, because the decree-law also provides for the identification of new professionalism that are necessary to the justice system. Well, from this point of view, I'd like to see what the problem is. I would like to understand if you deny, in the face of the objective lack of staff of the Ministry of Justice, that there is a need to hire these people. I would like to understand whether it is denied that there is a need to redefine the professional qualifications of people and to make the justice system more efficient, also from the point of view of competences. Finally, I would like to see the counter-indication of an issue of increasing employment. Really, when you want to say no at all costs and when you want to deny even the evidence, you can achieve the contradiction of claiming that measures that increase employment are measures that do not go well, are shots of hand or are choices that do not go to the honor of the government but appear as measures that demonstrate its inefficiency. I believe that, much more realistically, we are faced with a necessary measure for those who know the courtrooms; we are faced with a measure that had to be taken quickly, in order to gain the time possible compared to a situation that has not been resolved for too long and which has been left where it is today for too long. A situation that is very clear that even the absorption of the Provinces' staff will not be able to resolve, as it will not be able to resolve this measure either. But if you don't start, you'll never get to solve the problem. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u12	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u13	Madam President, the decree-law that the House will convert to law today postpones for the fifth time the obligation imposed on all those involved in the administrative process, including the judge, to sign the procedural documents in digital ways. The obligation, recognised by the judge, the auxiliaries, the staff of the administrative judicial offices and the parties, to sign all acts and measures with digital signature was introduced by Article 38... [[Brusio.]] I'm sorry, President, but I can't talk with this buzz. The entry into force of article 38, paragraph 1-a of Decree-Law No 90 of 2014 was initially scheduled on January 1, 2015, then postponed to July 1, 2015, further moved to January 1, 2016 and finally to July 1, this year. Now, the decree-law to our examination procrastinates the entry into force of the norm even on 1 January 2017, despite the fact that the Presidency of the Council of Ministers issued a measure that finally dictates the technical operating rules for the introduction of the telematic process, which made it difficult to apply the same in the offices. The decree-law also authorizes the Ministry of Justice to proceed, however, to the extraordinary recruitment of 1,000 non-management administrative employees, placing them in the roles of the judicial administration. The recruitment channels, however, are not clear; they may be the valid rankings, the new calls for competitions, or, for further recruitment, you can draw from the staff of the authorities of the vast area or of the metropolitan cities not yet located. All human resources will, on the whole, have to support and gradually implement the office digitisation programme. Now, it seems to me that a similar phenomenon is taking place here to that of recruitment in the school sector: we have a series of rankings and I do not want any privileged ones to be there because we do not know why. Among other things, it is necessary not to create disparities vis-à-vis some workers who have been deprived of the possibility of choosing a much better position than the one they have accepted. Information should be provided on the requirements and procedures for evaluating applications which, at present, appear to be very lacking and which could generate unnecessary expectations in public opinion, it was said yesterday, perhaps because it has already been decided who should be taken on this call for competition, as has been done in the past for competition procedures launched in other areas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u14	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I note that the amendments are intended to refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u15	Madam President, I should not like to speak, but I would point out that the agenda for the G1100, after a long debate in the Commission, has been approved with a rewording and has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u16	In fact, I'm retired.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u17	Madam President, there are some amendments calling for the date of entry into force of the rule to be brought forward to our examination. Since we're already on the fourth extension, I think the government could afford some advance. If he doesn't distract himself by doing things he shouldn't have to do, he might well have time to do the things he had to do, not what he should do today, but what he should have done. Therefore, we can anticipate the date from which we should finally have the telematic process in Italy. Amendment 1.11, on the other hand, calls for what is proposed to be done seriously and, that is, to think of precarious people. The problem of large rankings is different and one should think about solving that of the judicial offices and the precarious who have been working in them for years. Amendment 1.11 calls for the identification of the persons to be employed among the staff already employed at the judicial offices, which prevents the competition that we are talking about from becoming null and void. The government, which doesn't know how to do its job and does what others do, should at least know what happens in the things it administers directly. And, instead, he is not even able to tell us how many writings are in those rankings. Since you do not know this, but it is certain that there are more than a thousand of them, our amendments want to see serious action taken and the problem solved at least a part of the precariousness of the judicial administration, rather than taking people who are certainly qualified, but who have nothing to do with the judicial offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u18	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment 1.9, which provides for an increase in the number of units to be employed in the Ministry of Justice from 1,000 to 2,000. The amendment serves not only to recruit more people in the Ministry of Justice - which would be desirable - but also to avoid unpleasant things such as those said yesterday when examining the questions referred to the Commission and that is to say, in the Commission, that the thousand recruitments are easily achieved through the flow of rankings existing in other public administrations, as well as to reduce the number of persons arriving on the move from the former Provinces and all the trainee staff or working precariously in the Ministry of Justice remains totally excluded. Although the Undersecretary has reassured us that the staff currently employed precariously at the Ministry of Justice will have some preferential title, although unfortunately little important, in the context of the competition procedures, as foreseen by other previous norms, if the number of thousand were to be reduced more and more because of the sliding of the rankings, in the end the total of the precarious currently present in the justice would in fact be found with a handful of flies. Increasing the number of possible recruitments for the Ministry of Justice - we are talking about possible recruitments and, therefore, projected even over time - would guarantee a greater number of precarious justice, which could see met the expectations missed, unfortunately, by political choices made by this Parliament, by previous governments, by the current one and, in some cases, also by regional governments. It is useless to hide that 670 precarious in justice are only in the Calabria Region, which supports them and wants them. Today the Calabria Region even announces the increase, up to 1,000, demonstrating that the solution of a crisis is addressed only with a welfare mode that does not foresee certain future outlets, but creates expectations that will not be able to find the right application because within a public administration you enter exclusively for public competition. And we know that very often the selections for the precarious of justice have been made in the past in a very gross way. On the other hand, the last recruitments took place through public selections, and therefore the recruits would also have a right that we can call acquired, because they participated - I repeat - in public selections in order to be able to carry out their work. We have seen that there are precarious people who have a very high level of preparation (graduates, lawyers) but who today, with the situation in which we find ourselves, find as their only goal to give support to the courts that have no other alternative but to rely on personnel not also of role in the Ministry of Justice. And we have not only the so-called trainees, but also people on the move who even come from private companies. In short, the situation is truly tragic within the Ministry of Justice. A firm point should be put, once and for all, to close with the precariousness in all public administration, even more so in a delicate administration such as that of the Ministry of Justice, and not allow it anymore. It is necessary to find an employee who is as suitable as possible for the performance of the functions that belong to a Ministry such as that of justice, which should be fundamental for a democratic country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u19	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u20	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u21	Madam President, I call for all the amendments to Article 1 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u22	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u23	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u26	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to make a comment. I understand that the 'kangaroo' - and indeed this is - is being applied to measures with a thousand or two thousand amendments, and I can understand the needs in such cases. But since there are perhaps twenty amendments in all, I do not think it is a problem to vote on them. Proceeding with the split vote of the first amendment in order not to allow the vote of the next ones could also be avoided. I am not saying that this does not fall within the prerogatives of the Presidency - it is absolutely its legitimate prerogative, even if I do not share it - but perhaps in this case voting on the amendments would give satisfaction to those who have tabled them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u27	Senator Crimes, these are amendments to scale and there is a logical succession. In my day there was no talk of "kangaroo," but simply of foreclosure. If the concept of changing the date in any case is precluded, of course, the proposals for other dates will fall. There is also a logic of economics of work and of not wasting time on senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u30	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, since I agree with what Senator Crimi has said, and since the Presidency's decision is clearly unappellable, I shall then vote. As we vote on the first part of the amendment, I declare the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. I would point out that we are much more than on the scale, because some amendments go in opposite directions: there are amendments, such as 1.1, 1.5 and 1.6., which want to extend further than the extension already contained in the Government text, and others, such as 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4, which we strongly wish to vote in favour, which anticipate the date. Since, if Amendment 1.1 is rejected, we are not allowed to do anything after that, then we will vote in favour. Why do we propose a shortening of time? As already mentioned, we are at the fourth extension of a term exclusively for one reason: the Government does not succeed, does not know, does not want or does not implement what it itself has set itself as a goal with successive decrees-laws. And since the telematic process is an objective requirement for our justice (justice of all kinds), which seems to have a certain backwardness, it would be good to shorten the deadline. Moreover, I also understand the amendments that go in the opposite direction, probably the most realistic ones, because it is also expected this time that the Government, because it does what it should not do, will not do what it has to do, namely implement its own laws. And I say yours because it should be the laws of the state, but they are actually made by the government alone. Since, again this time, we will find ourselves in the same situation, colleagues who have tabled these amendments want to spare the government the effort to adopt another decree in a few months' time to extend the deadline. We prefer to move in another direction and, consequently, we are voting in favour of this stump of amendment which you, Madam President, have decided to put to the vote, so as not to prevent the Senate from speaking in one direction or another.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u33	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to say that, on the subject, I would immediately have started the debate on the measure on the telematic process, since the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers is dated February. With regard to the amendments to scale, I absolutely agree with you and I hope that the Senate will also be introduced in principle, because it is clear that, if someone does not want to change the date, then the size of the date is absolutely irrelevant. However, we must also consider how the amendments are written, because those who write them in this way already know that, with one vote, they will all be foreclosed. So, at the end of the parliamentary term, I will give up my algorithm, so that the opposition writes the amendments a little better. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr Calderoli, but I think your legacy in Parliament will be better than the algorithm. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators, until the words "2017" with the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.2 to 1.5 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u37	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I rise for a very brief explanation of vote on Amendment 1.8. Of course, I will vote against this amendment, because it is intended to introduce a principle that concerns recruitment by decree-law. I remember that the decree-laws have a character of provisionality and, therefore, the logic wants us not to be able to provide for assumptions by decree-law, because we run the risk of starting procedures that expire after sixty days in the case in which the content of the decree-law is modified or simply converted. It is a film already seen in the past, when with a decree-law the stabilisation procedures for the former LSU have been started and, then, suddenly, the decree-law has not been converted due to problems of the Government, with the consequence that the interested ones have found themselves, from point to point to point, faced with the decadence of all the stabilisation contracts that, even, had already been signed. Therefore - this is something I have already said on other occasions - when you make assumptions of recruitment, competitions or other, it must always be provided that the procedure cannot be initiated unless at least sixty days have elapsed since the publication of the decree-law. For this reason, we believe that the wording of this paragraph, as written to the House of Deputies, should remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u38	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CRIMI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators, up to the words "unit." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.10 are therefore excluded. We move on to amendment 1.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u41	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Is there any objection to Amendment No 1.11 from the Budget Committee? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, according to Article 81 of the Constitution. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). That's really curious. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are you insisting on the vote, Senator Malan? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I definitely insist. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.11. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we are asking for the vote, because we are absolutely certain that it does not lead to an increase in expenditure, since the fund is there and frankly we do not see the difference in hiring the same people in one way or another. Beyond the fact that it is not burdensome, we propose this solution because the text says something really bizarre, that is that the thousand units are assumed by the sliding of valid rankings on the date of entry into force of this decree by means of public competition procedures. What does "o" mean? We have an apparently total discretion of the Government, unless - as it would seem from the prevailing interpretation - this is to be understood as "first" the category of those who are in the rankings and "afterwards" through competition procedures. In both cases we do not go in the right direction, because in order to compensate for the lack of staff of the judicial administration they take from a ranking of people who often have nothing to do with the judicial administration. That is why Amendment 1.11 calls for these recruitments to be identified among the staff already employed at the Italian judicial offices to ensure the proper functioning of the established trial office. Meanwhile there is the famous problem of professionalism and precariousness within the staff currently working at the judicial offices, the so-called trainees. With this formulation there is really a vagueness, discretion and uncertainty, with all the related possibilities of appeal. Shall we tell the truth? If the rule is applied in the sense of the ranking, i.e. first taking on the subscribers in the rankings, the public competition remains exclusively written on paper and it would be useful to delete those words, because they remain useless. Therefore, the contest will not be there, so all those who have not already entered the rankings for some reason are totally excluded, even if perhaps more worthy of someone present in the rankings. In fact, one must hope that among young people there is also someone qualified. Instead, existing rankings are used and the competition remains merely written on paper. Our amendment would at least help to clarify this aspect. [[Applause from Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u44	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, we shall be voting in favour of this amendment which brings back to the attention of the House the issue which we discussed a long time ago, in the first Committee on Constitutional Affairs, concerning the trainees of justice. With the decree-law in question we are faced with the fact that in article 1, paragraph 2-a, is put in place - and this is good for us - the recruitment of a thousand people. The issue has not been clarified at all - and I would like to stress this - given that the text of the decree-law refers either to scrolling or to competition and does not fix - as would have been appropriate - a 50% share for the scrolling of the ranking and 50% for competition. Honestly, we do not understand whether, in the end, we could ever have the hope that there might be a contest, for which the trainees of justice should be recognized the preferential title. Therefore, we shall vote for this amendment because it refers to the subject dealt with on the agenda that I withdrew, having been approved in the Commission itself. The question is that the state, as in the case of trainees - it must be said what they are - carries out through strange formulas, like that of trainees, forms of real exploitation: I say not black work, but certainly exploitation. It is a fact that in recent years the staff has been trained, has participated in training courses and has paid their contributions. Today, however, we are faced with a serious problem: taking a thousand people through the flow could, yes, bring personnel into the administration of justice - which is always fine - but it is not said that it is formed, as it is now, for years now, it has carried out, in many cases, our judicial offices and courts.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u47	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, we will vote in favour of this amendment, which would take the form of those who - as I said yesterday - have been working for EUR 400 a month in the field of justice for decades. However, I would like to point out - as I did yesterday - that the thousand places that the decree-law, in part, would like to allocate to the benefit of the competitions previously held, and following a competition with competitive procedures for disciplines by the Ministry of Grace and Justice, are a pure fiction. If the competition is planned for a thousand people and we have tens of thousands of people who have already won one, it is clear that the thousand places will be saturated immediately through the sliding rankings. Therefore, we say that a competition is held for everyone else, but we know that this is not possible or provided for in the text. This led me yesterday to say that, in this way, we are going to hire people who are already in a ranking and that it would at least be a substantial aid in relation to the shortage of staff. However, if you go to read paragraph 2-a, with respect to these assumptions, it is discovered that the decree of the Minister of Justice, referred to in paragraph 2-a, identifies the aforementioned rankings and defines the criteria and priorities of the recruitment procedures to be started. It is clear, therefore, that not only do you take the old rankings of the competition of the single role, but you can then establish, at the level of the Ministry, procedures for identifying a name and a surname. Rather make a table attached with the name and surname of whom you want to hire, but do not make a decree-law, mocking Parliament. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u50	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, we will vote against this amendment because there is no synallagmatic relationship between the criticisms made by Senator Malan and the solution. It is said that the measure in our examination provides for the possibility of sliding the rankings of those who have already participated in a competition and, as a solution, the recruitment of all those who are engaged in the judicial offices: it seems to me that there is no relationship. The persons engaged as trainees or as interns in the judicial offices with what system of placement have been engaged there and with what public competition procedures? None. It was enough to alert the manager of a judicial office to the subject to be engaged there as an intern or intern, with a pay and a specific purpose to acquire skills; skills that may be useful to him when he participates in a regular competition. Pretending - as the 5 Star Movement has already urged and now Senator Malan and the members of the SEL Group - means violating an elementary principle of administrative law, according to which public employees must pass a regular public competition. I don't share that. I am for meritocracy and for those who, participating in a competition, prove to be more prepared than others and it is only to the outcome of the proof of merit that can be assumed in the public administration. Of course, however, entrusting government initiatives with the possibility of flowing from one or the other ranking seemed to me to be an unhappiness solution. In short, although we share the criticism of the choice of the government and the majority, unfortunately the solution is not what we imagine and for these reasons the AL-A Group will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u53	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, I would first of all like to subscribe to amendment 1.11, but I do not see Senator D'Alì and I do not know whether Senator Malan's agreement can be sufficient. In relation to the recruitment of 1,000 people drawn from old rankings, the point would be to understand when those contests were made. If they were carried out more than thirty-six months ago, the people in the rankings will have all the merit of being declared eligible, obviously not winners, but they are in a certain sense obsolete. It would therefore be important to open a new competition because there will certainly be more up-to-date people and probably with more suitable training, which could be winners. In my view, it would therefore be appropriate to open up to others. I therefore agree with what Senator De Petris has said about the explanation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u56	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, I would just like to mention the case we are talking about: 3,000 trainees and more have been used in our judicial offices for more than four years now to carry out fundamental functions, without which otherwise our processes would have been much slower, and today they represent a body of workers who has acquired professionalism, skill and familiarity with that work, so it is completely improper to think that they are people employed for preferential relations. I remember that at the origin of the entry into our judicial offices of those who were then more than 3,000 people there were instead interventions on socially useful workers who had carried out a path meritoriously and who wanted to offer over time the possibility not only to acquire a competence, but also to be able to activate a work path. Now many of those people have fallen behind, especially those of older age, who have not had the opportunity to continue their training activities until the end of 2016, while others will finish the last part by 2016. Well, it is entirely appropriate for the State to ensure that employment opportunities continue, where they have now acquired multi-annual competence. And, therefore, I am very pleased that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has approved an agenda which emphasizes at least one point: the qualifications acquired during this training period must actually be valued in the upcoming competitive rounds, provided for in paragraph 2-a of Article 1 of this provision, in order to guarantee the administrative machinery - and I am thinking in particular of the judicial offices - the possibility of continuing to avail of competences and resources. And this also allows the thousands of workers, who have served with great competence and gained a professionalism in the administrative machine, to continue a working relationship in which they have demonstrated not only skills and competence, but also to have acquired a specific professionalism. [[Applause from Senator Mattesini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u57	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u60	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to point out that the vote on this amendment by the entire 5 Star Movement Group is in favour and not against, as a result instead of the speed with which the vote was closed. If you want, we'll raise one by one to modify it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u61	We take note of that. But I'm reporting... AIROLA (M5S). You cancelled a vote yesterday! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't worry, Senator Airola. We note that there is no disagreement with Senator Santangelo's statement by any member of the 5 Star Movement Group. And, therefore, the vote will be corrected accordingly. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators, up to the words "in the paragraph " (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.13 and 1.14 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.17, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators, up to the words "2 -quater". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.19 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.20.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u64	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, by withdrawing Amendment No 1.20, I am saving the effort to be a kangaroo, but I am maintaining Amendment No 1.21, because we have a number of times that frankly cannot be understood. We are already in a regime of extension, in a situation of fearful arrears in all areas of justice. Well, in this case we have noticed something very curious. Paragraph 2-a provides for the implementation of recruitments, which are extraordinarily necessary and urgent, so much so that they are included in a decree-law. I do not know under other governments, with different popular legitimacy, what would have been said - and above all what would have said some very high office of the Republic - about a decree-law in which the part added with an amendment during the examination of the bill of conversion is six or seven times longer than the original text, however with relatively few links from the point of view of the content. However, it is said here that, since it is so urgent, and so on, it is necessary to wait sixty days from the date of entry into force of this decree-law. But then couldn't a bill be drawn up? It would have passed quickly, especially if it were limited to this. Instead, we must do it now, but it is written that we must wait sixty days. And you don't understand why. Then - and here we have the point where our amendment 1.21 comes in - they expect sixty days first, then we have to wait another thirty since the Department of the Public Service communicates the conclusion of the mobility procedures, and so on. So, let's cut it short a little bit these days. Maybe five isn't enough. If the government is willing for longer, we agree; otherwise we will keep this deadline.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u65	Amendment 1.20 has therefore been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, identical to amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.26, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u68	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, although they have been rejected, I would like to add my signature to the last two amendments voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u69	The Presidency takes note of this. Let us move on to amendment 1.27, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,27, tabled by Senator Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,29, tabled by Senator Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.30, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.30 tabled by Senator Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u70	I make a call for withdrawal on agendas G.101 and G.102, having been accepted as a recommendation in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u71	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u72	The agenda was withdrawn. Senator Cappelletti, do you insist on voting on agendas G1.101 and G1.102? Mr Capelletti (M5S). Yes, Madam President, I insist. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.101, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.102, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the additional amendment 1.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u73	I call on the presenter to withdraw the amendment, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u74	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u75	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u76	I call on the authors to withdraw all the amendments and agendas tabled in Article 2, otherwise the opinion is against it. With regard to amendment 2.0.1 I propose that the presenters turn it into an agenda that commits the Government to amend Article 21-c, including points (a) and (b) and, of course, expunging the commitment of expenditure provided for in paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u77	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u78	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators, until the following words are taken. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.5 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u81	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Madam President, I see Senator Giovanardi's file included but I do not see Senator Giovanardi. [[Protests from PD and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Miracle! Miracle!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u82	I beg the Senator Secretary to withdraw the ballots entered in the seats that are not occupied.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u85	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, we will see to it that Senator Giovanardi comes right back to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u86	According to the Presidency's requirements, when the senator is absent, the card must be removed. The Secretary Senators, therefore, must extract the card. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.0.1. Senator Crimes, do you accept the proposal to turn the rapporteur's agenda into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u87	Madam President, rapporteur, representative of the Government, before I accept any changes to the agenda, I would like to explain the amendment. This amendment is intended to remedy a situation which, not only in my opinion, but I believe is quite clear, is rather unfair, in the sense that by decree-law No 83 of 27 June 2015, to relaunch the Ministry of Justice, staff retraining has been envisaged. This initiative has been expected for twenty years and, after a thousand discussions, the Ministry of Justice is finally authorized by a law to follow up the retraining, that is to say the transfer of personnel from the status of chancellor or judicial officer to the higher one, or to an official of the single office notifications, executions and protests (UNEP) or judicial. The problem is that we have forgotten the figure of the computer officer, accountant and linguist expert. In the context of the Ministry of Justice there are also these professional figures who have been, in fact, forgotten. It's no use hiding it. Following the reorganisation of professional figures within the Ministry of Justice, these channels have been identified. Any person who enters with a specific qualification (whether accounting officer, computer expert, language expert or other) is trapped in that qualification and cannot move. It is correct when competitions are made for that specific qualification. After, however, within that qualification, a possible career progression is expected as a result of selection and not automatic as happens in the army or other Armed Forces. Let's talk about a progression by selection. The vacancies of a qualification are identified and they are put in competition, with a competition course and special activities, for those of the lower qualification: this is provided for the chancellors, the judicial officials and the UNEP officials, but not for the qualifications listed before. I can also accept the change on the agenda, but I hope that the Government will soon take care of those positions as well. I think the government doesn't even need a law to do that. Such a retraining of the professional figure may be initiated by negotiation and beyond the specific forecast. Therefore, I see no obstacles. I hope that all the other qualifications will also be covered. I therefore accept the transformation on the agenda, knowing that the amendment would not be approved as the decree-armored law and being this House now practically considered abolished by the Government, which uses it only to ratify its own provisions because it is an obligation of the Constitution. We take note of this: it is better an agenda than nothing. Mr President, I hope that these professional figures present in the Ministry of Justice will be satisfied as well as their colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u90	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Giovanardi. I see the card, but not Senator Ciampolillo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u91	I beg the Senators Secretary to extract Senator Ciampolillo's card. [[Comments and ironic applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] Colleagues, take your time. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Shame! Shame! [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Senator Ciampollo, calm down.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u94	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I remind all my colleagues... [[Comments from PD and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u95	Colleagues, let Senator Santangelo speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u96	SANTANGELO (M5S). I remind all my colleagues that we are in the Senate Chamber, so... [[Live comments from PD and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u97	Senator Santangelo, let's proceed with the work. What he says is something we should always remember.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u98	SANTANGELO (M5S). Let me intervene because it's important. The card... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u99	Senator Crosio, let Senator Santangelo speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u100	SANTANGELO (M5S). The presence is evaluated and verified only at the voting stage. We were in a discussion phase... [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] It's not exactly right. From this moment on, I assure you that on every vote I will be here to point out all those senators who are not present, one by one. I assure you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u101	Senator Santangelo...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u102	SANTANGELO (M5S). You are the President and you are calling in the right manner and in the right way.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u103	As you know, directives have been issued, following a debate in the Presidency Council, which prescribe that when you move away you have to withdraw your card, even if you are not in the process of voting. [[Applause from the PDe groups FI-PdL XVII and Senator Casini]] Assuming that Senator Ciampolillo quickly regained his place... [[Senator Ciampollo's protests.]] Senator Ciampollo, stop! Personal action is taken at the end of the sitting. Senator Malan, did you ask to speak on Amendment 2.0.1? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). No, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So I misunderstand. [[Senator Ciampollo's protests.]] Senator Ciampollo, Senator Santangelo spoke on his question. Personal action is taken at the end of the sitting. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Amendment 2.0.1 has been changed to agenda G2.0.1. Senator Crimes, do you insist on voting? [[Senator Buccarella points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Buccarella, do you intend to speak on the agenda? BUCCARELLA (M5S). No, Madam President... Senator Ciampolillo has already spoken on the question of Senator Santangelo. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, let us relax for a moment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Bravo, you contribute, too, because I see some excitement around you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u104	First of all, I would like to add the signature to Amendment 2.0.1, which is now on the agenda. I also kindly invite you, and I also invite colleagues, although I understand that this is a goliardic phase... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u105	Colleagues, stop.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u106	BUCCARELLA (M5S). President, if you give the floor to Senator Ciampollo, you can explain... [[Comments from PD and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u107	Colleagues, please. The Presidency decides who to give the floor to, so please be silent. Senator Buccarella, personal intervention was made at the end of the session. Let's proceed with the work. Senator Crimes, we were on the agenda G2.0.1. (Senator Ciampolillo goes down to the center of the hemicycle repeatedly asking for the word.) Senator Ciampollo, do not be intimidated! If you return to your place, you will have the floor at the end of the session as a personal matter. Senator Crimes, do you insist on voting? I gave her the floor, intervene, or I'll take it off her. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u108	Madam President, if you will allow me to wait a moment for this House to calm down...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u109	Senator Crimes, do you insist on voting on the agenda G2.0.1? CRIMI (M5S). I welcome the change to the agenda, but I would ask you to be able to speak on the order of business. Allow me, as per the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, Senator Crimes, calmly intervene. You have the right to do so. CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I find it absolutely shameful - and I must say this and I am sorry - that something so serious about which...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u110	[[Repeated comments from PD and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]] That, Madam President, is what I find shameful.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u111	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u112	CRIMI (M5S). I find it shameful that on such a serious matter, with the government that has made its battles on the smart card [[Applause from Senators Buccarella and Lezzi]] , I repeat on such a serious matter... Because the senators who vote for others are a practice in these parties, allow... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u113	I don't allow you to say that, Senator Crimes. I do not allow you to say that it is the practice that you vote for others.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u114	SANTANGELO (M5S). Let him talk! CRIMI (M5S). It was the practice until someone began to denounce the situation, starting with Mr Ciampolillo and the entire 5 Star Movement Group. Now it is a truly shameful thing for us to come and do this stage oil on a fact that should be serious and in relation to which everyone should undertake to verify that no one... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). This is not an intervention on the order of business! [[Comments by Senator Stefano Esposito.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u115	Senator Esposito, shut up. I'll call you back. [[Comments by Senator Stefano Esposito.]] I'll call you back for the second time. AIROLA (M5S). You can't handle it! [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] CRIMI (M5S). It has been a fraud for years now. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u118	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business, or rather on the disorder of the proceedings. The card hurts, the card perishes. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] Without prejudice to that, I believe that you made a mistake by not giving the floor to Senator Ciampolillo, because it would have been not a personal intervention, but a self-defense, because Senator Ciampolillo had gone away by removing the card. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Unfortunately, the card was confused with Senator Girotto's. Nevertheless, Senator Ciampolillo must not break... [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u119	Senator Calderoli, we appreciate your defense. We take note of that, but there was still an extra card.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u120	BOTTICS (M5S). What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u123	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I am sorry to have caused all this fuss, but this morning, when the session opened, I was here. Then I accompanied the prefect of Rome... [[Comments from the PD Group. Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u124	Senator Giovanardi, as a matter of fact, you also speak at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u125	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Let me explain to you that I was at the prefect of Rome with a delegation of citizens of the Eur... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u126	I am sorry, but the reasons for your absence can be explained at the end of the sitting. Like I didn't give it to Senator Ciampolillo, I can't even give her the floor for personal reasons.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u127	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). You've been repeating your words to me! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, the problem is that you take the floor improperly, not that I take it away from you. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Don't abuse my patience if you can't do your job!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u130	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, I really have a considerable esteem for Senator Crimi and Senator Buccarella, so much so that I had asked for the floor to be allowed by them to sign amendment 2.0.1, which I agree with. With regard to these latest incidents, however, I must say that the defence of both Senator Buccarella and Senator Crimi seems very moving to me, because the rule is that those who leave the Chamber must carry the card with them. [[Protests from the M5S Group. Senator Ciampolillo points out that he wants to intervene.]] I'll finish. Like it or not, dear Senators of the 5 Star Movement, the rule applies to everyone, so also to you. Respect her! [[Applause from the AL-A and PD Groups. Protests from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u131	Let us return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u134	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I was waiting for the statement by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government on the agenda with regard to the proposal for a reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, do you want to explain by voice the wording or have you already communicated it in writing? CRIMI (M5S). The wording is as follows: "The Government is committed to solving the problems indicated in amendment 2.0.1." [[Senator Ciampolillo's comments.]] I would also like to add, with all due respect that there may be in these cases, that I do not accept the addition of Senator Falanga's signature, in view of the comments with which he accompanied his request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u135	It is your right, Senator Crimi, and the Presidency takes note of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u136	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u137	I invite the government to welcome him.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u138	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u139	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.0.1 will not be put to the vote. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 2.0.2 is impervious.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u142	[[Senator Ciampolillo's comments.]] Senator Ciampolillo, it has already been clarified that personal intervention is made at the end of the session, as will Senator Giovanardi. Please, Senator Bonfrisco. [[Brusio.]] BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, I am just waiting a moment for the senators to leave the Chamber, given the moment of particular agitation that we have just experienced. I would like to begin my speech in explanation of vote by reminding the President and the representative of the Government present here that, from the beginning of the legislature to 15 June 2016, 70 decree-laws were issued and therefore, with this, if we have not lost count, we go at least to 71 decree-laws. [[Brusio. Recalls of the Presidency.]] Of the decree-law under consideration, then, was there great need? Its adoption is justified by the fact that the regulation implementing the rules for the telematic process was finally adopted in February, but at the same time it is said that it is essential to amend other rules of the administrative process code. In other words, it was 2010 when the code of the administrative process was adopted and the possibility of dematerializing all the bureaucratic activity related to the procedure was foreseen, but nothing has been done since 2010 to date, so much so that in 2014 another decree was issued, with which this time the obligation to computerize the administrative process was established, as if it were very different from the dematerialization provided for by the previous decree. The same article 38 of that decree provided, however, that this innovation would enter into force six months later, leavened until today, of extension for an extension, when it still insists to foresee an optional period of experimentation until 2017, which in fact constitutes another extension. [[Brusio.]] Excuse me, Madam President, but I do not think it is possible to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u143	Colleagues, Senator Crosio, Senator Blondo!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u144	[[Senator Santangelo's comments. Senator Paglini picks up Senator Ciampolillo with her cell phone]] You should take care of every senator... BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, the interview in this House is something we have not yet seen. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go ahead, Senator Bonfrisco. BONFRISCO (CoR). While Europe is debating and drawing the digital single market, in which our country is in a decidedly backward position - and this is not the place to remember for how many and so many reasons our country is still suffering a dramatic gap from this point of view - we are here to vote a decree-law to prolong the entry into force of the only telematic administrative process. On the subject of digital development, Europe (in fact, common sense, I would like to say), imposes multiannual action plans. In Italy, the strategy for digital growth 2014-2020 and the strategy for ultra-broadband were adopted in this perspective. This approach, however, requires a clear identification of priorities and, above all, the setting of deadlines for achieving the objectives. While we with this decree-law, on the one hand, ask the State to engage with the resources of the citizens for the infrastructure of broadband in our country, in order to be able to run towards the future and to realize an efficiency of the public bureaucratic system, on the other, always in this same decree, we extend the entry into force of the modalities so that the infrastructure of broadband becomes a true reality in the services that we must be able to render to companies and citizens. It is clear that this double speed, the Italian and the European, is dictated by a non-incisive political action of this Executive that renounces to impose a real acceleration in order to bring our country closer to the goal of 'e-government. Citizens and businesses are calling for the speed of the bureaucratic machine, which is an unsustainable ballast for the economic development of the country and for the free exercise of business. Europe is moving towards this, in order to promote cross-border mobility as well. The Commission, among other initiatives, intends to present by 2017 a proposal to create a one-stop digital window, allowing users to complete fully online the main administrative procedures in the Member States, and is working to achieve, again by 2017, the mandatory interconnection of all business registers of EU countries. But as you see, of extension, of decree-law in decree-law, the enterprises go in one direction and the public administration, including the justice, goes in the opposite direction. There are other initiatives in the area of justice, and they are specific. They concern bankruptcy registers, maritime transport, VAT registration and payment, and occupational mobility. That is the real world of the present and the future and we are voting on a decree that condemns us to be in the world of the past. In our country, however, the government asks Parliament for another six months, not to complete the entire process of e-government, but only to introduce the dematerialization of acts for the telematic administrative process. Who knows the structure of the administrative process, knows that this has a strong impact on the activity of the enterprises, so much so that our enterprises have within their budgets a contentious voice, mostly of an administrative type, that it weighs heavily the activity, also for the slowness of the procedures and above all for the costs of the materialization. We, instead of lightening the costs that companies have in their budgets, under the heading of litigation, particularly of an administrative nature, and which represents a considerable burden, continue to extend, for a further six months, the introduction not so much of the completion of e-government but even of a small part of it, which is only that linked to the dematerialization of the administrative process. It's no surprise anymore. On the other hand, this country is governed by those who managed to have the text of the new procurement code published in the Official Journal with 181 errors in the 220 articles. Madam President, these are some of the reasons why I, on behalf of the entire Group of Conservatives and Reformists (who have looked to this text with horror for the delay that we still have), am convinced of the conversion of this decree-law. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u147	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, forgive me, but at 9.30 a.m. this morning the rapporteur was asked to report on the draft law on publishing (I repeat: 9.30 a.m. this morning), which is not just any measure. There have been upheavals in the Commission, substantial changes have been made, there have been interventions, so the rapporteur himself said that we will have to see how we can deal with these issues. It is therefore not possible to set a deadline for tabling amendments to the House at 11.45 p.m. At 9.30 a.m., is the rapporteur given the mandate to report on a measure that has been examined in haste and fury, with the withdrawal of all the amendments by colleagues (otherwise, the examination would not have been concluded) and then the deadline for tabling amendments is set at 11.45 p.m.? We are very ridiculous, Madam President. We are talking about a measure that has been frozen for a long time, because the PD did not have an agreement with Gasparri. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and the deadline for tabling amendments at 11.45 a.m. is set very quickly today. I ask the Presidency to set a reasonable time limit, at least at 1.30 p.m. I am not asking for it to be postponed until tomorrow, as would be logical, but at least at a time when amendments have been made in the Commission. I think it is a legitimate request, in the sense that I am not asking to upset everything, but to arrive at 13.30, if possible: indeed, not only is it possible, because it is desirable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u148	Senator Crimes, I believe your request is well founded and legitimate. I will present it to the President, since I do not have the autonomy to do so. However, I think that is absolutely justified, so the Groups will be informed of any postponement.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u151	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, a young boy asked his father to explain the difference between practice and theory and his father, to do so, gave him an example. I cannot say in this House what were that explanation and example, also because they were expressed in dialectal Neapolitan form; perhaps to the Undersecretary, who is Neapolitan like me, I will tell in private what was the example the father made to his son to explain this difference between practice and theory. As a group we have decided to vote in favour of this measure, but to make you understand the difference between practice and theory with an example more appropriate to this House, I say to you that on Tuesday morning I was not present in the Chamber because I was engaged in an executive trial at the court in Naples. Well, in the context of a real estate execution procedure with a large assets subject to foreclosure, the debtor had electronically produced the waiver of the principal creditor and a installment with the intervener Equitalia creditor. These two acts should immediately have made sure that the judge interrupted the proceedings against the debtor, but I was informed by one of my collaborators that unfortunately that the digital repository had not yet been worked and then transferred to the court's portal; therefore, that morning the judge could not have made any order for interruption and therefore would have been necessary additional particularly burdensome activities on the debtor's behalf. That's why I went with the two typewritten complaints. I produced them to the judge, who, after reading and examining them, reserved himself to decide and, during the day, adopted the order of extinction. Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the anticipation of a telematic process, the prediction of digital signature, the prediction of the transmission of documents by lawyers by electronic means, who arrive on the court's portal so that he can read, evaluate and decide, is an orientation which cannot but be shared, not only by those who are in the majority at this time, but also by those who are in opposition. These are issues that have no political affiliation. Justice, together with health and school, is one of the three pillars of democracy. The senator, to whatever political force he belongs, who expresses a vote other than what is his conviction to follow the lines indicated by the leader, by the leader or by what he wants to call the one who gives the indications, is a Member who has no respect for his electorate or for the mandate conferred on him by the electorate. I have always voted according to my conscience and my convictions (for charity sometimes wrong, but I have always done so). It is for this reason that I anticipated my desire to ask Senators Crimi and Buccarella to sign amendment 2.0.1, which was then turned into an agenda. To be honest, Senator Crimi was too timely to refuse my signature, because I had not asked him yet: I had anticipated the intention to ask for it, but I had not yet asked for it. Senator Crimes didn't agree. When I declared my esteem for Senators Crimes and Buccarella I did it with absolutely sincere sentiment because, considering their proposals and their amendments, I have always been able to appreciate - at least in the field of my most specific application, namely justice - a good balance, a wisdom and, I must say, a solid preparation. So what happened, I'm very sorry. I said that the defense made by the senator was moving: it was moving, yes, but this is an expression that we use in the courtrooms when in some way we want to degrade the arguments of our opponent; instead I really, seriously moved when I was refused the possibility of adding the signature to that amendment, which was right and on which perhaps the government and the majority should have taken a more in-depth reflection in order to accept it. I come back to the initial point, namely the difficulty of applying the standard in a system which requires, to this end, the adaptation of structures. It is an activity that any government must do: regulation is easy, but writing on paper what is right to do in theory, cannot be in contrast to what, then, it is actually possible to do. There is an objective difficulty in implementing techniques and modernisations of the service of justice, useful to speed up the times and improve the economy, so as to ensure that our country is competitive at European and international level, as Senator Bonfrisco said. Well, that is undoubtedly a step in that direction. But we approve of the fourth extension this morning, Mr. Undersecretary, and you think it might be the last one? Are you convinced that, within this further period of time, those conditions can be fulfilled in order to ensure that the telematic administrative process can be finally launched? The experience of the example that I have just shown you, namely the filing of an act that is not worked and therefore does not go to the examination of the judge, has led me to do what I have always done: to physically deliver the act to the Registry, obviously with a commitment of energy and time, which I could have avoided with the telematic transmission. But the telematic transmission, which is also a law in our country, does not work. Mr. Undersecretary, we're gonna do the digitally signed administrative process now. But will it work? That is what she, her Government and its majority must be concerned about. We in this House can only say that it is okay and that we give you the fourth extension. But I hope, Mr Undersecretary, that you will not be here, at the end of the further deadline, to ask for a further extension with a decree-law because with this methodology you are going to incur a vice of constitutionality. In fact, if you resort to the decree of urgency to solve a problem quickly, so that the ordinary legislative process is not practicable, when this decree of urgency is repeated until it reaches two, three or four years from its original and first proposition, that urgency that accompanied and allowed to overcome the scrutiny of constitutionality becomes a boulder no longer surpassable. For the time being, we, broadly agree with the objectives of the reform, even with the complaints we have made about the slippage of the rankings and whatever else, will vote in favour of this measure. But, Mr Undersecretary, gentlemen of the majority, where you will never propose a further extension in the near future, we are telling you right now that we will not be able to overcome the habit of unconstitutionality that would accompany the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u154	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are talking about a decree-law for further extension of time limits, which unfortunately continues a bad practice of the Italian Parliament, which often uses this system, almost as if it wanted to demonstrate an absolute failure of a procedure that was intended to operate. Continuing to anticipate an extension of the time limits has created problems, because obviously for the operators of the sector, being with a system that is not exactly in use creates delays, the usual delays and however a situation of uncertainty. Among other things, we are talking about an area, such as the administrative process, which is particularly sensitive. Administrative justice is the kind of justice that confronts the citizen with the public apparatus. It is therefore a justice that must be particularly followed and particularly efficient, because it is the altar on which the respect of legality and law by the public administration is consecrated. For this reason, the system of the administrative process must be efficient. It must be taken into account, among other things, that lately the cost increases that have been imposed especially in this last parliamentary term for the administrative process, thanks to an immense increase in the unified contribution, make it really difficult to use administrative justice even from the economic point of view. This is just an inscription, to say that we want to believe that the administrative process must be structured in such a way that the citizen can be granted a right. As far as the telematic process is concerned, we believe in it despite its first application. Personally, I know the telematic civil process, with all the perplexities that raises a program brought into use by lawyers who, in their training, have certainly not had computer science and are forced to venture into a sometimes difficult program, which gets stuck creating delays and also difficulties in interpreting the rules relating to its application. The telematic process is required in particular in the administrative process, because it should increase speed and facilitate the work of stationery, avoiding weighing down. If the justice system worked in itself, we probably wouldn't need these mechanisms. I still believe in the beauty of reading a text of law on paper, the possibility of studying your subjects on paper, emphasising, instead of reading them on the computer screen, but we must also take into account how much the world has changed. Just think of the texts on which the law is studied. Since we are talking about the administrative process, there is a text that was in use in the faculty where I studied, the Sandulli, which has been so modified over the years that, starting from a garment of almost 300 pages, has come to have more than 2000. To study administrative law, therefore, means to study one, or two tomes, for a total of almost 2000 pages, to demonstrate how complex the world of law is today and how complex the legislation is. In this complexity, the telematic process had to be a solution and instead, as we see, we continue to postpone and probably these systems will be in place in five years' time, at least we hope so. Since the title of the decree-law refers to extensions and then, in the end, we talk about the recruitment of administrative staff, we take the opportunity to sanction what we have denounced in the questions we have proposed on almost all decree-laws and that is the unevenness of the matter, provided that we do not want to consider that the telematic process responds to the needs of efficiency and to have staff of chancellery should respond to the same requirement. It's the only connection we can tell. The problem of the lack of staff in the courts is very serious and represents what has been a real failure of internal mobility policy. Suffice it to say that at present, in the judicial offices, between secretaries, chancellors and clerks more than 9,000 people are missing: in the forum where I work, there is a shortage of administrative staff at the Registry of more than 25%. We are talking about a system of justice which, even if strengthened by the arrival of new magistrates as Minister Orlando promised, if there is a lack of those who prepare the acts, collects the deposits, prepares the executive formulas, lays out the injunctive decrees, that is, the staff of chancellery, in the end paralyzes. So we come to this "injection" of 1,000 staff units, which is absolutely ridiculous in the Italian panorama and we continue to say that justice is not an issue that concerns only lawyers, magistrates or a small niche of our fellow citizens. If the justice system doesn't work, the country system doesn't work. It is an indication of the country's serious reliability for the enterprise, but also for the individual citizen, who if he does not feel the possibility of obtaining justice, comes to think that justice can do it for itself. This is a concern that afflicts us, because the citizen must believe in justice and justice works when we have people who work: justice is not a representation of the lady blindfolded with scales, it is not a philosophy; justice is done by the people inside the courts, by magistrates and serious chancellors. Among other things, this injection of a thousand units takes place with a method that appears, in some ways, also arch. It is said that the existing mobility lists and rankings can be used, but I would remind you that, in point 2-f, it is said that all this must be done by way of derogation from the assumptions provided for in the current turnover regulations. If you can then make derogations in this regard, use them also for the police forces and for all the recruitments that should be made. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Thus we create a panorama of staff drawn from lists and rankings born for a whole other function, while the chancellor must know how to do it, have the foundations of law and a specific training, what is not assured by entering people who to understand how the computer system of the telematic civil process works will take years. There is a need for training that is not assured, so we have a number of absolutely ridiculous and personal staff that is not formed, according to the usual Italian system for which they are said to have done, but in the end nothing has been done. We always find ourselves with the same Italian panorama. It is necessary to address the issues not with decree-laws and extensions, but in a systematic way, considering the whole. In this way real reforms are made and not merely slogans, as this could be. For the reasons that have now been expressed, the Group of the North Legacy will abstain on this measure. We will abstain because we believe that the telematic process must be activated and that these thousand units must arrive. For the rest, we have represented all our perplexities. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u157	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, we in the Italian Left have always considered that the entry into force of the telematic administrative process was a fundamental innovation, I dare say almost epochal. Actually, that's how it was announced. Looking at it from the point of view of the citizen, it is an innovation that would certainly lead to an improvement of the system of the process and, above all, a strengthening of the right of the citizen to have justice. We must not overlook the fact that we are talking about the administrative process, but we know how much the proceedings before the TAR and the various appeals to the Council of State have to do with citizens' rights. We have therefore accepted with great concern this decree-law, as already explained yesterday during the examination of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, because it is the fourth extension. Now we are used to the announcements, especially on the part that concerns innovation and digital, on which for two years we have been listening to roboating and epochal announcements, but unfortunately the decree-law that we treat confirms that no adequate basis had been laid for the entry into operation of the telematic process. In fact, I would like to remind all of us that the last extension had foreseen the entry into force from 1 July 2016 and that today it is again extended to January 2017, with an experiment - this, among other things, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies - until March 2017. I was talking about the announcements, which, however, are never followed by a capacity for management of the work and therefore by the good performance of the administration in order to ensure that the deadlines for the entry into force of important and fundamental innovations such as this can be effectively respected. But why have we reached the extension once again? Because there have been many problems that have caused this postponement. I do not want to tease you for long about all the events that have affected, in particular, also lawyers and trial procedures. Of course, I want to tell the Undersecretary, the experimentation that has been carried out, among other things with pilot structures that should have ensured the preparation of lawyers, was carried out in objective and temporal terms that did not allow effective participation and therefore, in reality, was not really effective. There have been technical problems of various kinds and errors that indicate a lack of ability to give life to the application and the entry into force of innovations that - I repeat - are important to us, because we believe in the telematic process and we believe that this can be a further guarantee for citizens. Then there is another question, which is not clear to us and which is why, unfortunately, we believe that this decree-law, and therefore the fourth extension, also runs the risk of not being decisive. We have not quite understood whether the issues that have emerged, such as the serious delay in experimentation and the criticalities, both substantial and technical, which have accompanied it, are being resolved or whether procedures have been put in place to remove the criticalities. It is also unclear whether the problem underlying the implementation of the administrative telematic process has actually been taken into account, to which Mrs Stefani has also referred when talking about the civil telematics process. I am referring to the problem of the maintenance of the computer network, on which the operation of the system of the new process is based. Has the computer network been properly strengthened, given the need to operate in much broader terms than previously? Is this reinforcement adequate to support the weight of new activities? All these issues had already emerged in the trial phase and led to this fourth extension and honestly we have not understood - nor have we received any clear news about this - whether, above all, the issue of the network has been adequately addressed in terms of resources - and I have some doubts about this - and in terms of computer skills. We maintain a great deal of perplexity on this point, especially because we believe that this decree-law at the end risks, once again, not being decisive precisely because of the serious delays that have accumulated. During the examination in the Chamber - I come back to this point - sixteen paragraphs have been introduced that make it possible to arrive, with an accelerated and special procedure, to the permanent employment of a thousand people. The chronic and very serious shortage of personnel in the administration of justice in our country is before everyone's eyes and we have denounced it several times, so it can certainly be good news that something moves and that maybe a thousand people will be hired. The issues we have raised, relating to extraordinary recruitment, are related to the fact that it is not clear, and honestly we have not yet quite understood, what will be the mechanism regarding the part of staff that should be assumed through the sliding of the rankings of all public competitions. Meanwhile we have no news - we will ask Minister Madia - of how many are actually those who are still valid in the rankings. I suspect that there are tens of thousands, so the question arises spontaneously: according to what criteria will they be selected and with what criteria will they be drawn from one ranking or the other? The fundamental criterion should be the possibility of employment, therefore of professionalism and appropriate roles, in order to carry out tasks within the administration of justice. The real suspicion that we have is that, in the end, we will not have new competitions, because - I repeat - we are perhaps talking about tens of thousands of people who have won a competition and are still in the valid rankings. The decree talks about competition, but we have no guarantee that this competition will be banned. Here comes a problem, which I have placed with an agenda that has been approved, and which is very serious: I denounce here the situation of trainees, which I continue to call precarious, which the State, with 400 euros, used, even with procedures not really clear (in fact with a real mechanism of exploitation). These are people who have been trained with public resources and who are now at risk of being definitively excluded, because for those thousand or even two thousand units of which entry is authorised, there is a risk, using the only mechanism of recruitment through the sliding of the rankings, of not having competitions to which the trainees can participate with a preferential title. For all these reasons and concerns that we have, we announce our abstention vote. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u160	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, this measure, which has been discussed in the Commission, has two important issues. The first is that of the extension, which is why it was proposed, and the second is that of the shortage of employees in judicial structures, which the Government wants to remedy in some way. Since 2001 experiments have been carried out on the technical and operational methods for the telematic process in justice and only two years ago this experiment has been accelerated and it is therefore almost natural that there may be delays in the experimental practice of the telematic process. For this reason, although there is some concern, the extension must be accepted, because the path that has begun must absolutely continue and be completed. In fact, with reference to the request and the need for efficiency and speed of the administrative telematic process, it is necessary to conclude the experimental phase and, therefore, from 1 January 2017 - with the hope that it will be the last extension - to resort to the mandatory digital signature. The path is therefore absolutely necessary and, despite the perplexities, we justify the request for extension by the Government, because we recognize the need to close with the phase of technical-operational experimentation. We shall therefore vote in favour of this measure. The second issue is recruitment, where concerns are increasing. We share in part what has also been said by our colleagues in the opposition, because it is not clear how these new employees of justice will be engaged, with a non-directive profile. However, we welcome the fact that a further 1,000 units can go to fill the ranks of the workers of justice, thus allowing better organisation of the judicial system, of which the weaknesses and the need for restructuring and improvement are absolutely obvious, mainly due to the shortage of staff. The Undersecretary spoke of nearly 10,000 vacancies to be filled. For their coverage there are already, within the provision, precise guidelines because, in addition to the 1,000 that will be assumed (I hope that the subsequent decree of the Minister can give balance to these assumptions), there is also the commitment of the Government to stabilize 3,000 precarious of the justice that at this moment, in all the Regions of Italy, even with conventions stain of leopard on the national territory, succeed, with good will, to make the system of justice work and to run. However, it is clear that good will can be exhausted; the motivations must also come from adequate remuneration and, therefore, the stabilisation of these trainees must be an objective that the Government must pursue. Unfortunately, the transition for mobility of part of the Province's employees to judicial roles was not very successful, because only 366 units made this request. In the next three years, if there is a budget - I believe and I hope that this coverage can be there - there will be competitions, so we recommend that the government give, if possible, space to new recruits. Ultimately, overall, this is a measure to which we must adhere, despite some problems which, I repeat, leaves us dissatisfied. I can think of a Flaiano aphorism in this regard: we hope that, this time, not everything that is temporary will become definitive [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u163	CRIMI (M5S). We are faced with yet another decree-law. By now the decree-law is the practice, not only for urgent and indifferent facts, but it is used for extensions. The decree-law became in fact the instrument used at the last moment, when the Government realizes that what it had thought to achieve is not feasible, although perhaps someone, at the time of the drafting of the first bill, had made it known to the Government that he had written this norm and had indicated different times. We are therefore faced with the fourth extension, compared to something that is already operational: the telematic process, within the administrative process, is in fact already operational and in place. The problem that arises today is the final transfer, which ceases to implement the paper modes, in order to give full implementation to the digital modes. The whole journey towards the telematic process, in all areas, including civil, of ordinary jurisdiction, has always been troubled, because it has had to deal with the formative backwardness of the Ministry of Justice and all operators. When I speak of formative backwardness, I blame directly the governments that have succeeded and not the interested ones, because the training in the field of justice - in all its meanings: accounting, administrative and ordinary - has always been the responsibility of the personal initiative or of the good will of trainers at local and district level, who have made the effort to try to spread the ABC, without ever having been an organic plan of training. As many people know, I come from the Ministry of Justice and I remember that the last complex and collective training plan, carried out at national level, dates back to 2000-2001, in which all the new recruits, a large number of staff, were started to training, which lasted one year. Too bad that, in the meantime, they already had to operate, from the first day, although the training activity was in progress. Training is often, if not always, neglected in all areas. I believe that the first care of the Government and the Ministry of Justice should be to ensure that their staff are in step with the times: I am referring both to the magistrates and to the chancellors who work with them. The urgent decree is used as an extension, but we never see an assumption of responsibility: even in the accompanying report of the decree-law, there is never an assumption of responsibility in which it is said that the extension becomes necessary because you were not able to guarantee what had been promised. Every time there are roboating announcements, in which it is said that the process will be digitized, but in fact we are proceeding with an extension. The decree-law under consideration, in fact, is a simple transformation of dates to implement the telematic process. In the House, however, it was used as a Trojan horse to introduce the assumption of a thousand units. The recruitment of 1,000 units at the Ministry of Justice can only make me, every person in this House and every Italian citizen happy, because it is finally a breath of oxygen for an administration that is among the most lacking in terms of staff and among the highest in terms of average age. It is therefore an administration that needs and in fact the need has been satisfied in these decades (because we are not talking about years but decades) thanks to the precarious. The precariousness in the administration of justice has become almost equal to the staff in staff. If you go to see some court of appeal in particular and some courts, these have so much of that staff under precarious regime, in the most varied forms, which is almost equal to the staff in staff. Today perhaps a little less, but simply because there was a great stabilization of former socially useful workers about ten years ago, otherwise it would be far superior. In any case, this has always been the founding feature of the Ministry of Justice. Staff coming from private administrations, factories and industries, or simply on the move; agreements with the Provinces to enable these people to activate their mobility and make available their skills, albeit in different areas, and to give breath to the judicial chancellors who often need "low labour," even if now this is a term that can no longer be used in the field of justice, where even the lowest level in terms of professional qualification must have a much higher level of training than before, perhaps, the chancellors were required. Let's think about the use of computer tools and digitization, which is on the agenda, not to mention the relationship with the user, which has now changed. We no longer see (or should not see) the citizen as a burden on the operator of justice, someone who comes to ask something, but as the one who is interacting on the other side of the door, with whom we must establish an almost equal, accompanying relationship, in order to satisfy its demands and requirements. This is the role of the URPs opened at the judicial offices, always thanks to the goodwill of presidents of courts and court of appeal, of prosecutors, of executives and of some chancellor and of some operator of the justice, who put of his. (at 12.06 p.m.) (Following CRIMI). But let's go look in detail at what we're looking at. We have a thousand units that are promised as assumed by the Ministry of Justice. At the same time - and I have not been satisfied with the reasons that the Government has brought to the Commission from time to time - if you go to read paragraph 2-a of the article, you will find that a thousand units are reduced the quota of the staff in mobility that must pass from the former Provinces. At this point we ask ourselves: has the problem of the transfer of former Provinces' staff been solved? If the Ministry of Justice says that the two thousand units that were to arrive are reduced to a thousand, evidently, or they no longer serve the other thousand, or these units are not there and therefore the assumption of a thousand more units is authorized. But even with reference to the assumption of these thousand units we must go into detail, because it is in detail that the diabolical nature of certain measures is hidden. This assumption shall be made before the existing rankings are moved. But if there have been no competitions in the Ministry of Justice for twenty years, what are these existing and valid rankings? It is here that an infinite field opens up, on which the Government, the Ministry of Justice and the Undersecretary do not have a clear vision, since, to date, they have not been able to provide us, either in relation to, or in the Commission, a list of the rankings currently in force, with appropriate qualifications to be drawn from, because a verification of the compatibility of qualifications and whatever else will have to be made. We're talking about a route that could even exhaust the thousand places - who knows? - or don't find anyone. Therefore, what is denounced is that probably the objective of the authorization of these thousand assumptions is exclusively to go to heal and to put into service the suitable competitions in rankings still valid of other public administrations. We will find out later; when everything is approved and implemented, we will discover names and surnames of the people in these rankings. Then, in the alternative, there will be the public competition, obviously for the remaining posts. In all this we have forgotten that large slice of precariousness in the Ministry of Justice; a question, the latter, which should be definitively closed in the public administration. The precarious person can resort to the private person, who can identify needs such as to force him to have to hire staff for a fixed period of time, obviously with the right safeguards; however, the public administration cannot afford, as in the school and in any area such as health and justice, to continue to go on with the precarious, which means to deceive people who build their future on the basis of certain expectations; there are families who live thanks to that small salary, because we are talking about trainees who receive 400 euros per month to work twenty hours a week, except in cases where some Region or Province gives some increase with an own agreement. This is the situation we are in. The measure under consideration seems to us to be a simple round of rounds, a simple fake measure that serves to shift appropriations for the mobility of former Provinces' staff and to prevent that money from being lost; therefore, it pretends to want to hire that staff to freeze that money for a while and then maybe reuse it for mobile personnel after having obviously cured the existing rankings. From all this, in conclusion, I come to say the following: justice, be serene, that those thousand assumptions will probably never come. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u166	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I promise that this will be the last time I will talk about this issue, partly because the process of the measure ends, so my personal telenovela on the telematic process ceases. Mr Crimi is right: with this measure, justice cannot be peaceful for all the reasons we have said before, because unfortunately an extension is the obvious affirmation of a defeat, the failure to do something, a concept that this Government and this President of the Council do not really like to recognize. It is, however, an objective fact: what was promised once again has not been maintained and, moreover, this has been done on a technical profile that is not particularly complex to achieve. It is true, in fact, that the computerization of the administrative process is not a banality, but, as my previous colleagues reminded me, we have experiments and successful access to administrative justice, to the jurisprudence of the regional administrative courts, to the jurisprudence of the Council of State. It is not by chance that we have chosen to include as a pilot example, as number 1, in the code of the administrative process precisely the telematic process, because it was believed that it was the form of administration of justice that was already more prepared for the implementation of this instrument, with respect to which we have made a very precise commitment to our European partners. I would like to mention the six-month delegation that characterizes the first part. I see Mr Morra, with whom we used to comment earlier on the fact that I had used the expression "didicotomy" for this provision and I explain the reason. The measure is dichotomy because it is a kind of totally unbalanced balance. Paragraph 1 and the original paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the decree-law, which are basically the heart of the original primitive provision, constitute only a small part of the current provision, which is now composed of an obese article 1, with a paragraph 2 (which arrives until paragraph 2-eredcies) concerning the new organic plants of the Ministry of Justice, the true heart of the provision. In terms of content and physical and textual aspect, rather than dichotomy - it was said with my colleague Morra, with the taste of the calembour that characterizes him - that the measure is almost comical. But it is. It is not clear why the measure started with a decree-law. Could it not be inserted elsewhere - as we have said - this umpteenth defeat, this umpteenth extension to the start of a necessary procedure for the administration of justice? It is a procedure which, moreover, represents in itself a saving for the general administration of the justice of the State, whose failure to implement, instead, constitutes a large allocation of additional costs to users, to the final recipients of justice, not only administrative but also ordinary, that is, citizens. The slower justice is, the more people pay, in every respect. They do not pay only from the economic point of view; I want to stress that this aspect is not irrelevant because we have had an increase in the unified contribution (so the unified contribution increases and the efficiency of the justice system decreases); the economic cost of litigation, however configured (administrative, civil, criminal) is enormous and is also an emotional cost, which paralyzes life, heritage, personal relations, family relations. Mr Migliore, I greatly appreciated your availability to the Commission. You have given the figures in the Commission with the great availability and competence that characterize it, but the problem is that the numbers do not come back; these numbers never come back. It's not a six-month extension. It's a nine-month extension. In fact, later, nested in another article of the obese part of the body of the provision, it is said that, yes, it has been six months, but then you can continue until March 2017 in a parallel path with the old style process, old way, and the telematic process, where already existing. We therefore take more time than is foreseen by the extension and nest it in a darker and hidden part, in the closet of the content of the measure. A great deal has been said by my fellow Members who have preceded me on this terribly opaque aspect of the new paragraph 2 of Article 1. I repeat, you, the Secretary-General, have given the Commission the figures, but they are numbers that do not convince us, especially with respect to the thousand posts, even in terms of the allocation of the posts in the budget. You have told us that we will draw on a fund for the efficiency of the administration of justice, which is contained in the law of stability, which, however, is based very much on the negative percentage of the allocation of the current employees of the Provinces. It is therefore a fund with a question mark, the content of which is not so clear and defined, especially if it refers to a thousand permanent contracts. We know that there is a potential coverage of this fund for 2016 and 2017: and then? What we know for sure is that it is not with an article, robbed in the House, of a decree-law that regulates such an important matter as that of the removal of organic plants of the administration of justice for non-directive roles. This is not done by neglecting the booking effect that have deservedly conquered those who have so far worked for the administration of justice in the "precary" role of trainees. We invented them, Undersecretary Migliore, with Decree-Law No. 98 of 2011, to respond to an emerging need of the administration of justice. We are certainly not the ones who say that competitions should not be celebrated, but we are not the ones who after having been helped by the members of a professional category, we leave them politely with a kick in the butt. This is not fair, this is incorrect, this is not even balanced and legitimate from the constitutional point of view, because there is an article 3 in the Constitution that tells us that we must treat the same situations that have the same content. What does not go back, Mr President, is really not going back, Mr President, Undersecretary Migliore, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that these four categories are identified by an article and not by an organic measure, on which we could all be confronted, on which you could have written everything you needed to make it clear who would go to cover what places, with what professionalism, with what prospects of training (continuing training there and then), with what prospects of retraining. These are all prerequisites which must exist and which do not exist in this text. None of this is written. You have explained to us how it should be; but this always belongs to that dreamlike dimension which, until it is transferred to the paper and published in the Official Journal, does not exist in kind. They are manifestations of good will, which have no weight and no value until they are written, approved, valid and effective according to the rules of the Italian Republic. All we know is that there are a thousand places and four possible categories of suitors. We have the famous rankings, which concern all administrations and not just the administration of justice. So, without the criteria of professionalization and guaranteeing that the right person will go to the right place, how do we know that those places, so important for the administration of justice, will be covered by the right people? We have the famous Province employees, who are everywhere, especially in the Region, but who seem not very inclined to go to the Ministry of Justice. We've got the interns that we'll have to sort out somehow according to the expectations we gave them. Finally, we have the most unlikely category of all, i.e. new recruits. We know in fact - as my previous colleagues have repeatedly reminded me - that there is a great national ranking, indistinct, indeterminate, multi-professionalized and, regarding the average age of civil servants, certainly not characterized by the presence of virgulves, we have a category of scrolling that risks to cover completely - and I would remove the "rischia" - those thousand places that have been advertised as new recruitments. So, Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest, let us use the right words to define the right contexts. If we want to do the sanatories we must have the courage to tell us frankly, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way to respond to needs. We recognize these needs, we legitimise them and we share them: we need to speed up justice, not just administrative, and we need to cover the organic plants of the administration of justice. But this is not the right way, this is not the way to share solutions. However, just because the need exists and because we are unfortunately in an emergency, in the face of a measure of which we do not agree with the method in any way, we are induced, only because of the need for the emergency, to declare a vote of abstention. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u169	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no difficulty in declaring at once that the PD Group will vote firmly in favour of this measure. In spite of the fact that I want to contain the speech in a few lines, I think it is right to give answers because there are so many things that have been said in this House, even true things, but the terms of the speech have in some cases been exasperated. Of course, when it comes to extensions, it is easy to say that you are wrong, that it is not right and it is not right. I remind everyone what we say every year, or that (hopefully) we used to say, when we talk about thousandprorogates. To prolong, in fact, means not having calculated a deadline well. This applies to all measures. But it probably is less important for this measure than for others, because we are talking about a draft law dealing with the telematic administrative process that was introduced with a structural reform that came into force in 2010. The first deadline was 1 January 2015, almost five years. The time has passed, this legislature was born in 2013 and three years had already passed since the entry into force of the first legislative decree on the telematic administrative process. In the meantime, there is a delay and perhaps the error is a precedent, because it has been extended by six months in six months when there was a lack of an element that was introduced by a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of February 2016. It was not only a question of deciding a date, but of starting a path that was certainly made more complicated than the choice, which we share and which Parliament shared, made with Article 38 of Decree-Law No 90 of 2014 when the faculty that had been granted in the phase of the general reform of the telematic process became, instead, a necessity. In the face of this change, in view of the fact that the use of telematics is no longer a faculty but an obligation, it is clear that the content of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, as well as the organisation of all this, has also become much more complex. So, if we want to complain about the extensions, we should rather complain, and make self-criticism, about the fact that in the past we have repeatedly moved the term well knowing - probably we should know - that if in the first phase the expected deadline had been five years, in the next phase, the really operational one, the expected six months was really laughable. On the other hand, this extension has never been inserted into the cauldron of extensions precisely because it has its own specificity, it is rather complicated and creates the need to interface with other subjects. In fact, with this measure we decide dates and criteria. The decree of the President of the Council of Ministers entered into the substance of the criteria and rules of the telematic process, but then there are those who must apply these rules, those who must equip themselves and also those who must train the staff. So complaining too much today about this extension is a position that is then denied also by our own behaviour. In fact, the opposition that is scandalized about the extension has also tabled amendments which call for an extension. For example, one of these amendments states: In order to allow the orderly start of the telematic process, until the date of 31 January 2017 the previous rules remain applicable. Therefore the opposition suffers the same pressures - it is done to say - that we suffer, it realizes the organizational difficulties and it recites a part. We, of course, recite a different part, namely that of those who protect this extension and hope that it will be sufficient. In fact, honestly, the terms of January 1, 2017, and for the mandatory of March 31, 2017 (i.e. nine months), could be appropriate and I hope that they will be final. With regard to the new text of Article 1 introduced by the House, many of us have grasped an element of continuity with the previous wording, which also tells us how difficult it is to digitize, not only in the administrative process but in general in the processes. In fact, the expected recruitments become urgent in order to give rise to digitalization. The second paragraph of Article 1, which deals with recruitment, makes this quite clear. In conclusion, this last aspect tells us something very precise: to introduce the telematic process and to use these tools means to have more personal training. 12.28 a.m. (Follows the Dead). This is a bet to win not only as a parliament and as a government, but as a country system, including in the same as the protagonist the judicial and administrative apparatus of the TAR, the Council of State and also the ordinary courts. Having said that, I would move on to the new paragraph 2 of Article 1. I would like to take advantage of the positive aspects of the issue which we have been discussing animated and to produce an agenda on which I refer, as a PD Group, to the words of Senator Lo Giudice. I will not extend and express the same satisfaction with the same considerations. Let us take the positive aspect: if the Government were to bring us a measure in which, for example, there was talk of recruitment for the Forces of the Order, we should all just have words of praise because we have been talking about shortages of staff in various sectors for a long time. We are talking here about justice and, therefore, we are talking about the lack of staff aimed mainly at speeding up digitisation in ordinary courts. It is not questionable whether it is a good thing to have been able to commit the sums used because they are available to hire a thousand people. Nor is it a novelty or can be the subject of scandal the fact that proceedings are being carried out, which are here referred to in a elaborate manner by referring them to the Ministry of Justice. The procedures for mobility and public competitions are governed by laws which we have approved as Parliament and which we have also recently taken part in. All this serves to say that it is obvious that we, as a Group, have also raised the problem of precarious people. We must not say one thing and the opposite of what we are saying. We must not say that we are all for competitions - and here we must be - and then, when it comes to working on precarious people, say something else. We have put a problem on these to the Government and to the Commission, which has dealt with it in a united way and which the President herself has represented in summary in the preparation of the agenda we have voted on. We have started from a agenda of Mr De Petris and his colleagues in the Group to join and work together on the approach to this issue. We pose the problem of the so-called precarious - or interns of justice, to use a more technical term - but not to contradict the laws of the State, but to guarantee them, albeit with an agenda - this was the instrument we had available - and to say that we have not forgotten and that we know that there are the subjects in mobility and made redundant, that we must place, coming from the Province. It is too easy to say that we are abolishing the Provinces and then not realizing that we must place these people. We know all these things, but we also know that there is a staff employed in the area of justice to which an answer must be given. Is the answer the competition that recognizes the specificity of their training under a law already in force? All right, let's do it. That is what we have said in the Commission and I repeat that. The aspects that have seen us discuss, even in an animated way, especially on trainees have to do with the lives of citizens, with the fact that very often, as has been denounced in this House, some regions continue to resort to precariousness. It is bad that this happens because the precariousness is not created, but once it is created we have to reckon because it is human lives and families waiting for answers. We looked together for an answer. We are convinced that in the following we will find a common position on how to proceed, but in the meantime we can only be satisfied that justice is enriched with a thousand people and we can only acknowledge that, as there is an absolute necessity, the telematic process will enter into force definitively on 1 January 2017 and that this mode will become mandatory on 31 March to allow citizens a path of absolute reliability and certainty. We therefore have no doubts and will vote in favour. I should like to conclude by saying that I thank my fellow Members very much for the debate which took place in the Commission, which was very rich and which was also called for by the problems raised in the Group. So it seems to me that when we work together, we get some results. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u172	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u173	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I invite the secretary senators to check the voting positions. I also invite the senators to cooperate by removing any cards that are in close proximity, in case of absence of senators. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u174	Pending the submission of amendments to the draft law 2271 and related to the publication provision, I have the following item on the agenda, i.e. the discussion of the draft law n. 2067 and related.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u177	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, we have nothing against the incardination of the reports on the subsequent draft legislation under consideration. However, we would ask the Presidency, as agreed at the meeting of the group leaders, to give my group the opportunity to hold a meeting from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u180	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask for confirmation. This morning a heavy and long process took place on the bill on publishing. We took part in the work of the Commission and did the final rush to finish the work and to be able to examine it in this House. In view of the expectation that the measure is pending and that we have already examined a measure a few days ago without the opinion of the 5th in the Commission, in order to speed up the process of all the measures, I would ask that after the two reports we finally address the issue of publishing, because the report and the general discussion can be carried out without the opinions of the 5th on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u183	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I rise to announce that the 5 Star Movement Group agrees with the proposal you have put forward to continue the discussion of the next item on the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is no opposition. In fact, it is a reversal proposed by the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u186	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I only speak to make sure I understand. We in the Committee on Budgets must express our views on the amendments to the directive on publishing. For reasons concerning the presence of the Government, we will not be able to meet before 3 p.m. I think we're gonna need about half an hour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u187	We take note of all these needs that we will try to reconcile. Of course, the Commissions and the Councils can convene and work when we do not vote in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u190	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I too am speaking for clarification, so that we do not misunderstand. Will we now be carrying out the report on the reform of criminal proceedings and then the report on the discipline of cinema, and then will we move on to the bill on publishing? Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u191	We will now be carrying out the report on draft law No. 2271 and related, after which there is a request for interruption, and then we will assess the situation, even if it is compatible with the question of opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u192	I am sorry, Mr President, but we have always had the general debate even in the absence of the opinion of the 5th Commission. So the debate can only be held so that, in good time, at 4 p.m., we can also have the opportunity to examine the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u193	In relation to the progress of its work, the Presidency will make its intentions known.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u194	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2067, 2032 and 1844, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 176, 209, 286, 299, 381, 382, 384, 385, 386, 387, 389, 468, 581, 597, 609, 614, 700, 708, 709, 1008, 1113, 1456, 1587, 1681, 1682, 1683, 1684, 1693, 1713, 1824, 1905, 1921, 1922, 2103, 2295 and 2457. The rapporteurs, Senators Casson and Cucca, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, there is a very important measure before the House, which contains amendments to the penal code, the penal code and the penitentiary system. A measure which in many ways is extremely complex, which Minister Orlando announced in the aftermath of his inauguration and which is the result of close work by the Commission, where a confrontation has taken place between the political forces, sometimes even harsh but always constructive and very profitable. In this respect, I should like to thank my colleagues in the Commission, both in the majority and in the opposition, who, with their active contribution, have allowed the adoption of the text that is being brought to this House. But thanks must also be given to the Government in the people of the Undersecretaries Migliore and Chiavaroli and Minister Orlando, who have constantly participated in the work, offering their valuable work in terms of both content and mediation capacity, thus facilitating the quick conclusion of the work. Finally, I would like to thank the officials of the Commission, Dr Cavallucci and Dr Annecchiarico, for the usual patience, competence and professionalism expressed here too. On 3 March 2016, the Justice Commission initiated the examination of draft laws n° 2067 and 2032, both of which were already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, together with several other draft laws of parliamentary initiative, some of which (i.e. those governing matters not specifically dealt with by the Senate Act 2067 and those with general and systemic changes to the penal code and the criminal procedure code) were ordered at the session of 31 March 2016. For the legislative investigation, the Commission has carried out a number of hearings in the Bureau, supplemented by representatives of the Groups, integrating the work already carried out by the Justice Commission of the Chamber of Deputies. Dr Armando Spataro, Prosecutor of the Republic of Turin, Dr Giuseppe Pignatone, Prosecutor of the Republic at the Court of Rome and Dr Giuseppe Borrelli, Deputy Prosecutor of the Anti-Mafia District Direction of Naples, as well as the leaders of the Union of Italian Criminal Chambers, were also audited. On 4 May 2016, the Commission adopted a unified text drawn up by the rapporteurs, which, among other things, absorbed - and this is an extremely significant fact - also the discipline of the prescription, originally contained in the bill Act of the Senate 1844 (also already approved by the Chamber of Deputies). This text - it should be stated immediately - has been the subject of significant changes during the examination in the contact person. The hope is that a swift examination and approval of the measure will be carried out, allowing the ambitious understanding to be given legs to streamlined and speed up the judicial system and to respond to the needs of the European Union for a modern and efficient system. The Commission's work has enabled, as has been said, to partially amend the text which had been received after the House of Deputies had been approved, and to introduce some new issues which had not been addressed at first reading. Consider, for example, the regulation of the use of so-called computer sensors, commonly called trojans. Turning to the substance of the measure, I represent that I have been appointed rapporteur, together with my colleague Felice Casson, who is absent today, with whom I have divided the tasks and the subjects to be dealt with. I shall therefore make a very brief presentation of the content, pointing out that, having only had the final text of the measure yesterday, I did not have the material time to prepare an organic and, above all, a more concise report. I therefore request, as of now, that I be allowed to deposit a written text if I cannot complete the exhibition in the time available to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. CUCCA, rapporteur. This measure consists of 40 articles, divided into five titles. Title I brings changes to the penal code and is in turn composed of three heads: Chapter I concerns the extinction of the crime for remedial conduct and changes to the limits of punishment for crimes of political-mafia exchange, theft and robbery. Chapter II makes changes to the rules of limitation, while Chapter III delegates the Government to reform the procedure regime for certain offences, to reorder certain areas of the penal code and to revise the rules of the criminal record. Title II amends the Code of Criminal Procedure and consists of three Heads. Chapter I intervenes on the discipline of the defendant's inability to participate in the trial, his address for service, preliminary investigations and filing. Chapter II deals with special rituals, preliminary hearing, instruction and the structure of the judgment of merit. Chapter III deals with the simplification of appeals. Title III amends the provisions implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure and the rules governing the organisation of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Title IV delegates to the Government for the reform of the criminal trial and the penitentiary system. Title V contains final provisions, including, in particular, financial cover clauses and provisions for the entry into force of the whole measure. Turning specifically to the content, Article 1 inserts in the penal code the new Article 162-b, which, with regard to the offences punishable by a complaint subject to remission, allows the judge to declare the termination of the offence, after hearing the parties and the person offended, when the accused has repaired the damage entirely with refunds or compensation and has eliminated, where possible (this has been added to the Commission), the harmful and dangerous consequences of the crime. The intention - it is clear - is to allow, where possible, the repair of the damage and, therefore, the declaration of the extinction of the crime. If this is not possible, it is a fact that no longer depends on the will of the person concerned, it is clear that it must be carried out in the same way. Reparation must take place within the maximum period of the declarations of initiation of the debate at first instance, without prejudice to the request for a further period of not more than six months for payment of what is due, even in instalments. In such a case, the court shall, if it accepts the request, order the suspension of the trial and fix the subsequent hearing at the end of the period laid down, imposing specific requirements. The provision also provides that in any case Article 240 (2) of the Criminal Code applies with regard to the mandatory confiscation. The ratio of the referral to the code is precisely because of the mandatory nature of the confiscation provided for in Article 240 of the Criminal Code. It is clear that the intention is mainly of a deflagrant nature, in order to avoid that the crimes of small cabotage do not clog the activity of the works of the offices of the proxy and the aggiandante. In any event, compensation for the damage can also be recognised as a result of a real offer, pursuant to Article 1208 et seq. of the Civil Code, formulated by the defendant and not accepted. Article 2 of the measure contains transitional provisions and provides that the new law on the cause of the extinction of the crime will apply also with regard to the ongoing processes on the date of entry into force of the law. Obviously the provision, following the changes made to the Commission, also regulates the possibility in which the defendant is unable, by fact not attributable to him, to fulfil. Article 3 intervenes instead on the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange, as referred to in Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, and tightens the sanctioning framework. In this regard, it should be recalled that during the current parliamentary term, Law No 62 of 2014 amended the political-mafia electoral exchange crime, intervening both in the face of the incriminated conduct, considerably expanding it, and that of the sentence imposed edittally, By reducing it. From the first point of view, in fact, the recalled law has widened the range of punishable facts, including the acceptance of the promise of votes in exchange for the promise or the payment, as well as money, also of other useful. In the second respect, it has reduced the sanctioning framework in relation to Article 416-a, punishing the conduct referred to in Article 416-b with the sentence of imprisonment from four to ten years. The bill to our examination intervenes again on the edittal framework, sanctioning this crime with the penalty of imprisonment from six to twelve years. Article 4 then intervenes on the sanctioning framework of the crime of theft at home and of robbery, raising the minimum edittale of the prison sentence from the current year to three years and the pecuniary penalty, in the minimum, from the current 309 euros to 927 euros and, in the maximum, from the current 1,032 to 1,500 euros. The provision also tightens the penalty framework for aggravated conduct, as provided for in the third paragraph of Article 624 bis of the Criminal Code. Finally, the draft law introduces a further paragraph into the codical norm, for which the mitigating circumstances, other than those provided for in Articles 98 (less age) and 625- bis (collaboration for the identification of the routes in the theft or of any fencers), competitors with one or more of the aggravating circumstances of the theft referred to in Article 625, cannot be considered equivalent or prevailing with respect to these and the decreases of penalty are therefore operated on the quantity of the same, resulting from the increase resulting from the aggravating circumstances. Article 5 amends Article 625 of the Criminal Code. Article 6 intervenes instead on the crime of robbery, referred to in article 628 of the penal code, raising the edittal limits of both the prison sentence, from the current three to four years in minimum, and the pecuniary one, from the current 516 euros to 927 euros, in the minimum, and from the current euros 2,065 to 2,500 euros, in the maximum. The provision also tightens the penalty framework for aggravated conduct provided for in the third paragraph of Article 628 of the Criminal Code. In this respect, I think it would be useful to point out that, for a simple oversight, for a forgetfulness in the course of the Commission's complex work, what we should have done has not been done, by taking into account the comments and the outcome of the debate which took place in the Commission, in which the problem of the disorganic nature of the general framework, which emerges as a result of the introduction of the new system, with regard to crimes against property, was raised. It will therefore be necessary, in the course of this House's work, to ensure that the whole system - which we forgot to do in the course of the Commission's work, for the sake of a simple oversight - is kept in order to increase the minimum amount of the edittal penalty for the extortion of the crime referred to in Article 629 of the penal code, from six to seven years at the very least, so as to make the whole system of crimes against the property organic. Subsequently, Articles 7 to 11 deal with the issue of the prescription of crimes, so much debated in recent months, taking up, albeit with significant changes, as provided for in the bill Act of the Senate 1844, which - as said - had already been approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Article 7 amends Article 158 of the Criminal Code, which governs the beginning of limitation periods. The bill, inserting a further paragraph to that article of the code, establishes that for the offences indicated by article 392, paragraph I- bis of the code of criminal procedure, in the matter of probative incident, or for the offences of ill-treatment in the family, referred to in article 572 of the penal code and for the offences referred to in articles 600, 601, 602, 600- bis, 600-b, 600-c, and 600-d of the penal code and for the crime of sexual violence and stalking, if committed in the detriment of minors, the limitation period starts from the completion of the eighteenth year of age of the victim, unless the criminal action has not been carried out previously; in the latter case, in fact, the limitation period runs from the acquisition of the news of crime. With this provision, as is also apparent from the parliamentary examination in the other branch of Parliament, it was intended to implement the Istanbul Convention, against violence against women, ratified by Italy by Law no. 77 of 27 June 2013. Article 8 amends the rules governing the suspension of the period of limitation. This article had a rather troubled iter, but then found a fairly widespread sharing. The first paragraph of Article 159, in its current wording, provides that the course of limitation shall remain suspended in any case in which the suspension of proceedings or criminal proceedings or of the terms of protective custody is imposed by a particular rule of law, as well as in cases of authorisation to proceed, referral of the matter to another judgment or suspension of proceedings or criminal proceedings for reasons of impediment of the parties. First, Article 8 (a) of the draft law deals with the first paragraph of art. 159, first of all, specifying, as regards the already envisaged suspension for request for authorization to proceed, that the time limit is suspended from the measure by which the prosecutor submits the request and until the day on which the request is accepted with consequent repeal of the second paragraph of Article 159 that currently governs such hypothesis (in point (c)) and specifying, as regards the already envisaged suspension for referral of the question to another judgment, that the time limit is suspended until the day on which the question is decided. The provision also inserts a further hypothesis of suspension of the course of the prescription: for request of rogatory abroad with a maximum period of suspension of six months. Point (b) of paragraph 1 then adds to Article 159 cited further cases of suspension of the prescription. It is expected, in particular, that after the judgment of conviction at first instance the limitation period will remain suspended until the filing of the judgment of appeal, and in any case for a period not exceeding one year and six months; after the judgment of conviction on appeal, even if pronounced in the matter of referral, the limitation period shall remain suspended until the final judgment is delivered and, in any case, once again for a period not exceeding one year and six months. Those time limits shall run from the time limit laid down in Article 544 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which, as I recall, contains the time limits for the deposit of the judgment. The provision also states that, in the event of the defendant's acquittal at second instance, or of the annulment of the judgment of conviction or of a declaration of nullity of the decision, resulting in the return of the documents to the judge, the periods of suspension of one year and six months (for the appellate judgment) and of one year and six months (for the judgment of Cassation) shall be recompensed for the purposes of calculating the limitation period. Article 9 amends Article 160 of the Criminal Code to provide that the interrogation of the judicial police, by delegation of the prosecutor, also results in the interruption of the course of the prescription. Article 10 deals with Article 161, which governs the effects of the interruption and suspension and amends the first paragraph of Article 161. Compared to the current wording of the rule, which states that both the suspension and the interruption have effect against all those who have committed the crime, the reform distinguishes the two hypotheses and provides that: the interruption has effect for all those who have committed the crime; the suspension has effect only for the accused against whom it is proceeding. Mr President, the complexity of the matter would require a very thorough debate, but there is no material time to do so. I therefore ask you right now to submit the written report which is very detailed and takes into account all the various aspects of the measure. This would also allow us to complete our work very quickly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. CUCCA, rapporteur. The article 12, paragraph 1, delegates the Government to adopt one or more legislative decrees to modify the penal code, in the matter of regime of procedure of some crimes and to reform the discipline of personal security measures, providing, in case of reduced capacity, the abolition of the double track and the introduction of a penalty treatment aimed at overcoming the conditions that have reduced the ability of the agent, also through the use of therapeutic or rehabilitation treatments. This is an extremely important issue. Also in the exercise of the delegation, the Government will have to provide, taking into account the actual overcoming of the psychiatric judicial hospitals, the destination to the Residences of execution of the security measures (the so-called REMS) priority of the persons for whom the state of infirmity has been definitively established at the time of the commission of the fact. Paragraphs 2 and 3 then outline the procedure for issuing legislative decrees, on which the opinion of the relevant parliamentary committees is provided. Article 13, in entrusting the Government to issue a legislative decree to amend the rules of the judicial record, provides that such revision must take place in the light of changes in criminal matters also procedural and of the principles and criteria contained in the national legislation and in the law of the European Union. This issue of the reform of the register is also extremely important and important, because it brings us up to date with Europe, modernising the system that to date was objectively very far-reaching. Article 15 instead lays down rules on the definition of proceedings for the inability of the accused, providing for a new discipline. Article 16 amends paragraph 2 of Article 345 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, relating to the lack of the procedural condition and the reprobability of the prosecution. Article 17 adds a further paragraph to Article 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the communication of the address for service and Article 18 amends several provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure relating to preliminary investigations and the filing procedure. There is also Article 20 which deals with the modification of special rituals. The matter of appeals is simplified and changes are made to the implementing, coordinating and transitional rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure and to the legislation and organisation of the public prosecutor's offices. As I said, there is then a delegation to the Government for the reform of the criminal trial and the penitentiary system. In this context, I would merely refer to the part relating to the extremely important changes in the matter of interception of conversations and communications and the judgment of appeal. In particular, with regard to capturing operations, the delegation should provide for provisions to ensure the confidentiality of communications and telephone and telematic conversations which are intercepted, in accordance with Article 15 of the Constitution. Moreover, as previously announced, there is the regulation of the matter relating to the so-called computer collectors, the so-called trojan, which was not regulated at all, but which had been dealt with by a judgment of the Supreme Court. Those principles had been adhered to until today, but we have now found a solution that we believe is better for regulating this matter. As I said, I turn over the text of the report so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u196	As requested by Senator Bianconi, I intend to suspend the session until 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u199	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I rise because I am going to ask for the official apologies of Senator Quagliariello, who accused me of leaving the Chamber and leaving the record in place. This is obviously false. When I got away, I pulled, like I always do, the card. It's an infamous accusation, and that's why I demand official apology. I also think it's a slander. That of leaving the cards in place is a tricky practice which, as you know, often happens in this House. Just this morning I denounced Senator Giovanardi's record that he was not in the Chamber. I am officially apologizing to Senator Quagliariello for declaring something false. But above all, being a slander to me, if I do not receive his official apology, I will then be forced to proceed accordingly, under the law. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u200	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u202	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to denounce an act of violence against my person; it is a very relative violence, whereas it is technically a violence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. To clarify: was it in the same context? GIROTTO (M5S). Yeah, I was explaining that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm asking because I wasn't there. GIROTTO (M5S). All right, I'll explain. While I was in this position, a colleague came and paraded my card - mine - showing it to everyone. I repeat, he took off my card, so technically it's an act of violence because I was here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is An act of violence against the card? [[Laughter. Applause from the PD and LN-Aut groups and Senator Bonfrisco.]] GIROTTO (M5S). No. I think it's an act of violence against me, since I was here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understood the point: it was something she didn't want to do. GIROTTO (M5S). I'd like to see how another person would react if she took off her card. There was no time to explain the situation, even though I tried to indicate that the card was mine and the House reacted as it reacted, with enormous superficiality and without thinking for a moment. I wonder: if it is enough so little to deceive you, then the situation is not cheerful. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I also regret the fact that I have asked the President for the floor several times and I have not been given: it would have been made clear in a matter of seconds that this was simply a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u203	We take note of that. He had asked Senator Giovanardi to intervene on a personal matter, but I think everything has already been clarified. I think you pointed out that you were out for a service.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u204	Mr President, this unfortunate episode also gives a bad image of the Senate outside. I was here with my colleagues this morning at the beginning of my work, then I accompanied a delegation of EUR citizens to the prefect of Rome and we had a three-quarters-hour interview on a particularly felt emergency in that neighborhood. After the meeting, I returned to the Senate three quarters of an hour later. I may have left the card inserted (there was the general discussion), but it could be extracted. I do not understand why for three quarters of an hour the Senate of the Republic should be stuck on an absolutely trivial issue, compared to a card that a Senator Quester can extract, while a senator was (since we have commitments outside this Assembly too) in a formal meeting with the prefect of Rome on issues that concern citizens. I just wanted to explain why I left for three quarters of an hour. But even when a colleague goes for a coffee or has a physiological need, if he forgets the card it does not have to be a matter of state and who constantly raises these problems making it an issue that on the outside redones as an unpleasant fact for the whole Senate must take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u205	Senator Giovanardi, the fact is that I had solicited the attention of all senators, being a personal card, to guard and guard her. Since we admit some forgetfulness, they usually provide the Secretaries or Quaestors, with the help of the assistants, to remove the forgotten cards. But I continue to reiterate the concept that everyone is responsible for his card and that, if he takes it with him when he goes away, it is better, even if it can happen to forget it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u206	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u208	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to make a point of order. As a member of the Defence Committee, I have received a communication calling a meeting in the deliberating session at 14.45 p.m. Being deliberating, it will be necessary to have a quorum, so I hope that in 15 minutes it will be done in time. However, I wanted you to be aware of this fact that I learned from a communication.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u209	We take note of that. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title and suspend the session until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.10 p.m. and resumed at 3.04 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u210	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u212	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to speak on a personal note. Before the suspension of work, in fact, while you were chairing, a very serious complaint was made by Mr Girotto because someone would have used violence against him and his file. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crosio, personal interventions are normally carried out at the end of the session. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). This is very important, Mr President, and I want to denounce myself: it was I, Mr President, who used violence against Senator Girotto. However, in my defense, I must say that I was instigated by Senator Quagliariello, who is a master in these matters. I fell for it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There's a crime contest. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). I appeal to the clemency of the court. I am incensored and I hope in the mercy of the court. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u213	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2287, 649 and 1835. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u214	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we present the draft law governing cinema, audiovisual and entertainment, and we delegate it to the Government for the legislative reform of cultural activities No 2287. I will only talk about cinema because in the Commission we have proposed and voted on the deletion of Article 34 on the subject of live entertainment. If the Assembly agrees, we will deal with the live entertainment system, always starting from the Senate, with a separate legislative process, so that we can guarantee this sector the necessary in-depth investigation also with hearings. Mr President, this is a very important intervention which aims at relaunching and developing the cinema and audiovisual sector, implementing established principles also at international and European level to safeguard cultural values and identities in this global and technological society. Audiovisual and, in particular, cinematographic works are considered strategic by the European Union as they reflect the cultural diversity of the different traditions and stories of the Member States of the European Union. For this reason, while having a significant impact on the market, the measures provided for in the draft law do not constitute State aid prohibited by the competition rules, but fall within the cultural exceptions provided for in the Treaty, of course within the framework of clearly defined limits. The bill recalls, therefore, the European and international constitutional norms that define cinema and the audiovisual fundamental means of artistic expression, cultural training and social communication. The Government has grasped the importance of the parliamentary action initiated in 7th Commission with the bill n. 1835, presented by about fifty senators, with the undersigned as the first signatory, and the bill n. 649, presented by my colleague Giro, who also dealt with cinema and audiovisual. The Government, in order to benefit from a preferential lane, has presented, in turn, a bill related to the budget law for the year 2016, which therefore incorporates in part the draft laws of parliamentary initiative, benefiting from something very important - I am referring to the times - and using everything that in the Commission in more than six months of work had already been done through a cycle of about 60 hearings, which allowed us to listen to all the actors of the system. I don't think we've forgotten anyone. Our goal was to return to public investment in cinema a cultural and social value that aims at the enhancement of quality cinema and the formation of the public, starting with young people in schools. An indispensable goal, which can well be combined with the needs of cinema companies. This was the problem: to establish the balance between enterprise and culture and cultural training in this field. It was a goal that we could not give up and that, in fact, had to contend with the needs of cinema companies in a logic of overall development of the sector. The economic logic, which cinema companies rightly demanded, meeting the market's sustainability criteria, nevertheless tends to produce a sort of homogeneisation of content and products. We had to put together this logic with the more strictly cultural and social one that aims, instead, as we imagine, at differentiation and originality. In this perspective, therefore, our amending work must be read. We have done a great deal of amending work and I thank my colleagues from all the groups. We have worked very hard and we have also achieved a positive result. Our work has been directed towards increasing the resources allocated to the so-called selective fund, used for choices of the highest artistic quality, and introducing a minimum guaranteed percentage of investment in schools. We have always kept in mind - a little is the spirit of our Commission which requires this, since it deals with culture, school and training - a very important element, which I claim here and present to the House with a little pride; an element which has been welcomed by the Government and which refers to a strong investment in school, a structural investment that will in fact enable us to carry out important training work for both teachers and students within schools of every order and grade. In our amending work we have added to the Government's own text a new body: the Higher Council of Cinema and Audiovisual, composed of experts of qualified experience and different origins; a kind of structure similar to that already existing at the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, namely the Higher Council for Cultural Heritage. The aim is to ensure a stable dialogue with the operators of the sector and the different levels of government - I am thinking of the state but also the regions - with the task of carrying out a verification of the effects of the interventions. In fact, it is always important to verify the results of the investments made by the State in the various sectors. Therefore, we have provided for this body and have given it this function of verifying the effects of the interventions, in order to direct the policies of the Ministry in the drafting of the decrees. These monitoring and evaluation activities will then be the basis of the report, which is always planned with our amendment, in the Minister's annual report in Parliament. A package aimed at ensuring that the important phase of verification can be carried out with a useful and also agile instrument, which is precisely the Higher Council of Cinema and Audiovisual. The work carried out at parliamentary level has enabled the draft law to be refined, recovering many of the important elements discussed in the Commission and contained in the draft law of parliamentary initiative. I will explain some of the main elements of the bill by combining the work done in the Commission with the text proposed by the Government. The draft law provides for full implementation of the Constitution and the Treaties of the European Union and UNESCO, as it is recognised, in principle, that cinema must be supported. I quote from the law the bill recognizes, promotes and supports cinema and audiovisual as fundamental means of artistic expression, cultural formation and social communication. Colleagues, we then have a real doubling of resources. A very positive result, obtained by the Government and Minister Franceschini. In this regard, I would like to thank the Undersecretary, Mr Cesaro, present in this House, who has followed the Commission in all its work: EUR 400 million per year, starting this year, compared with the current EUR 200 million allocated to various funds. This measure establishes the Fund for the Development of Investments in Cinema and Audiovisual. In this way a reordering of the whole of the investments is carried out. This overall level of financing is adjusted annually on the basis of a percentage. This is an interesting and innovative element, which has also been the subject of debate with the General Accounting Office of the State. Each year the level of funding is commensurate with 11% of the IRES and VAT revenues in the sector, so it is actually growing: if the market grows, it is expected that there will be an increase in benchmarks to redefine resources consistently in the annual budgetary maneuver. This as you understand is very important, because there is a doubling of the resources that are given to the cinema. Hence the idea that we actually believe in it: the government has believed in it, and of course Parliament can only agree on this. Parliament obviously would have liked more, but let's say that doubling can be a good result that the Government has proposed to us and that we have valued and very much shared. I also spoke to you about the selective contributions to the project. We have worked very hard on this and we wanted to see a strong commitment from the Government, because it is about the films made by young people, about the films on the first and second works; it is about giving funding to the artist's films, to the quality content, also to the difficult films to understand us. So we paid particular attention, with a figure that in absolute terms is about EUR 70 million and as a percentage ranges from 15% to 18% of the Fund annually. In view of what I said earlier, namely that the fund is commensurate with 11% of IRES and VAT revenue, it is clear that if this increases it will also increase the absolute figure of the 70 million that we are making available this year for quality works, for difficult works, with selective contributions. We also have automatic contributions, another very important element on which we must do fair work, and we must actually introduce a new criterion. New parameters are foreseen for access to the recognized contributions for works already carried out, however, subject to reinvestment in the sector, which also take into account the quality of participation in international festivals, the prizes obtained, and not only the box office receipts. In the current legislation only the parameter of the collection to the box office is considered. You understand, ladies and gentlemen, that this could not be enough: we cannot think that a film should receive funding from the State only if it is good for the box office. We have nothing against the box office, in fact, we are because the maximum possible number of people go to the cinema and enrich the box office, but certainly this cannot be the parameter because funding is added. We must also give quality content to those films that often go very well, which have an excellent result of box office, but which at the same time are - thank goodness - quality films. Therefore, films of great success, but not because they are the so-called Panettone films, about which you have heard; I am also referring to quality films that have won international competitions, festivals and prizes. We tried to put together a set of parameters. Consider that for this type of automatic contributions on works realized, historically, we are in the order of 20 million euros per year: every year the Ministry has invested 20 million euros on this type. I now introduce the theme of tax credit, which is not new, because something already existed. We have already voted in this legislature a series of measures which have considered tax credit and which have introduced tax credits within the world of cinema, even with various percentages. With this measure we have rearranged everything, with a tax credit with different percentages: ranging from 15 to 40% depending on the types and purposes. So this too should be considered as a new investment by the State. Mr President, in fact, there are the direct funds and the funds that come from tax credit, which are still resources that the State gives up to re-employ them in the world of cinema. So you understand that the investment is really interesting and I believe that this has been very well shared and welcomed by all the colleagues of all political forces for a while. This is a real effort made by the government. There is, therefore, a tax credit for production companies, a tax credit for distribution companies and a third tax credit for film companies, for technical and post-production industries and for the structural and technological adaptation of cinemas. There is also a tax credit, very important, for the promotion of Italian and European works in the halls and a tax credit, on which I call your attention, for the attraction in Italy of investments (i.e. executive production and post-production of foreign films). In fact, we want films to be made in Italy, because this means work and internationalization, but also tourism, opportunities and opportunities for all those who work in the sector. So, there is a fifth tax credit for attracting foreign investments in Italy. A sixth tax credit is also provided for companies which do not belong to the cinema and audiovisual sector, but which have decided to invest in the production and distribution of audiovisual cinematographic works. The name we gave him is external tax credit. With the bill under consideration, therefore, the total value of tax credit reaches 260 million euros, compared to 150 million last year. We have to do the mathematics and see the absolute figures. In this case we have overall doubled all the funding and intervention strands and, therefore, I believe that we have made a huge effort from this point of view. As I have just told you, there are therefore six types of tax credit, plus additional credit support instruments. We have also thought of something else innovative, as requested and revealed in the many hearings that we have done, to which the operators participated, even the weakest ones. It is clear that this is a world where there are very strong and very powerful subjects, but also those who are in a bit of trouble or because, as young companies, they still have to follow a process that - we hope - will lead them to success. It is clear that, at this stage, they must be helped and, through a measure such as the one under consideration, it is the task of the State to support these young enterprises, always referring to the cultural exception. We are not giving state aid and we must all be very aware of it. Sometimes, in fact, the border may not be so clear: those that are given are not state aid, because cinema is culture and cultural identity of a country and the European Union recognises the cultural exception. I repeat, because it is clear that this is the most sensitive issue dealt with by the measure and it is therefore right that it should be clear to colleagues when we are then preparing to examine the draft law. We have introduced the possibility for those companies that are unable to use the tax credit due to them to be able to transfer the sums, according to legal procedures, as well as to bank and insurance intermediaries, also to the Sports Credit Institute. What does sports credit have to do with it? The Institute for Sports Credit also invests in culture and, therefore, what we have introduced is innovation, which is also the result of parliamentary work. The Institute for Sports Credit undertakes, on the basis of a special agreement with the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, to allocate the sums corresponding to the amount of credits transferred to the financing of projects and initiatives in the field of culture, with particular regard to cinema and audiovisual. We have therefore created a sort of virtuous circle that is very interesting and innovative, which frankly I believe will lead to very interesting results. We'll see about that. Now we have to experience it, because, as for all new things, it is right to look carefully and see what will be the results of these intuitions that, according to us, are intelligent, but - I repeat - we will see later (usually try to do the best and propose something useful). There is another very important point, which is called for by young producers and young people who work or want to work in the world of cinema and audiovisual media: this is the Guarantee Fund. It is planned to set up a Guarantee Fund, with a budget of EUR 5 million per year, set up as a special section of the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, to ensure financing operations for the production of audiovisual and cinematographic products. This is the first time that a Guarantee Fund has been set up: the Ministry on this issue has been very helpful and we have shared this idea. Therefore, a budget of EUR 5 million per year has been provided for young people and those who really need support in order to start their own activities. There is also a very important measure in the measure, which I believe will be of great interest to my colleagues, who have probably been urged to do so in the territories. In the draft law presented by the Government there was a Fund of 120 million euros of grants. It was planned that the allocation of these funds - which are many - would last for only three years. Following the parliamentary debate, we have brought this duration to five years, because we want to give time for the planning, so that both the public and the private can prepare a correct analysis of the rooms and everything that is present in the territories, so as to present a design that supports the path we intend to propose. We want the cinemas to be reopened, particularly in historic centres. Of course, on the occasion of the Act on the show there will also be interventions for the theatres to be reopened and I believe that the Government, at our request, will be pushed to seek new resources for the live show and for the theatres. In the meantime, however, we are talking about cinema and, in this regard, we can say that the effort has been made. It is in fact proposing to go back to the cinema, because in my opinion - if you allow a personal consideration - it is not fair and it is not nice to stay at home and watch only what is proposed to us by the great television distribution. Let's try to go back out, in the small halls, especially in the small centers, because this means making sociality, coming back to meet and talking, without being locked in the house, in the living room, sitting on the couch, watching a movie alone, but sharing emotions and comments at the exit of the cinema. So we favored the reopening of the small halls and we did it in particular for the municipalities below 15,000 inhabitants, for which additional resources are made available, precisely because in those places it is particularly important that the cinema returns. I say this not because we want to be "Amarcord" or because we like the "little ancient world," but because we believe that putting some values of that little world back into play, it certainly doesn't hurt anyone. So on this point we wanted to give strong support and, from this point of view, the Government has done exceptional work. Speaking of small ancient worlds and modernity, an extraordinary plan of digitization of the entire film and audiovisual heritage has been planned, which we must preserve in the best possible way. For this reason, the Government has proposed an appropriation of 10 million euros, for three years, to be lost - that, Mr Undersecretary, is one of the few figures that we have not increased - for soft loans and interventions to digitize television and film works by Italian companies. This is also important and it is a request that has been made. In the Commission, we strongly wanted the measures relating to school and high-education. We have in fact proposed - and the Government has accepted - a reserve of no less than 12 million euros per year to be allocated to schools. We have thought, in fact, of binding to this end a quota of 3% of the EUR 400 million - or the different amount that will be available - of the Fund for the development of investments in cinema and the audiovisual sector. It is therefore a 3% percentage of this Fund, which will be linked to school every year, with a structural measure. We want, in fact, to grow the audience of tomorrow; we want to grow the passion for the crafts of cinema. We want to see the cultural level and training in cinema and the audiovisual sector raised in the school through training courses (which will be proposed with these funds, through a convention to be implemented between MIBACT and MIUR). It is therefore structural resources that are made available. And this is very important. Then there is another aspect, which I believe is of interest because you know the territorial realities well. There are Film Commissions, which are currently established within various regions, but not in all. They work in a very different way and produce different effects between the Region and the Region. Italy, on the other hand, is all beautiful, and the Film Commission must enhance its territory, attract investments and be able to work in the territories those who are interested in cinema. We support the Film Commission through an important input of resources, but also through recognition. For the first time, in fact, in the definitions relating to cinema, you will find, in article 2 of the bill, which is dedicated precisely to definitions, the definition of Film commission and, therefore, the prediction of regional Film commission. We believe that this is another significant aspect. Another point, ladies and gentlemen, is transparency. Often, in the context of financing public funding for cinema, the critical issue has always been the transparency of funding. We never knew, except in a partial way, who took resources and from where, or who were the subjects who gave resources to the various productions. Therefore, the reference channel has been lost in recent years and it was not possible to understand who would benefit more from these resources. We have now set up a register, the film register, which collects all the information relating to the allocation of state, regional and European Union public contributions, advertising them on the Internet. It is an access that is given to anyone. So, anyone will know who funded that movie, how and why. This is a very strong element of transparency, which we believe, with great pride, to have introduced, because it was necessary for there to be greater transparency in this world than funding. Mr President, I have mentioned the essential points here. I believe that this measure responds (and in fact we are quite satisfied) to the expectations of the world of cinema and audiovisual. We have seen this in the countless meetings and hours of hearing that we have devoted to this measure. We had to strike a balance between direct investment and tax credit measures. Much attention has been paid to the formation of the public and to the significant and structural interventions in the Italian school, as I have had to say. A great deal of work has been done by the members of the 7th Commission, whom I thank very much for the important contribution made at the time of the amendment. I would like to thank my colleagues from the 5 Star Movement and the Mixed Group. It really was a very serious and also very positive work what we have done. I would also like to thank not only my colleagues from the 7th Commission, but also other colleagues who have spoken a great deal about this measure, putting questions to us and giving us interesting suggestions that we have often, with the help of the Government, succeeded in introducing into this measure. And I think that is a reason for satisfaction for a Member of Parliament. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the Budget Committee very much. As I said, some innovative elements of public finance have been introduced, so there was a need for an in-depth analysis together with the accounting, so there was a very well-kept relationship between MIBACT and the Treasury and the 5th Commission that had to support us. I consider it right, useful and opportune that all this part and these technical insights, which was not easy to carry out and also to move in a logic of innovation and challenge, are valued as such. I see that President Tonini is entering the Chamber right now, while thanks are being given to him and to the 5th Commission. I thank all my collaborators who have allowed us to carry out our work and those who, even outside the Senate Chamber, from the beginning believed that in 2016 we could have a comprehensive law on the system of cinema and audiovisual media in Italy. Not everyone agreed to draw up a single law that somehow also becomes a code; certainly there are some delegations to the government on a number of issues, as we will see in the examination of the articles, but we have drawn the discipline of cinema and audiovisual and in my opinion we have done well the work concerning definitions. We have given legal form to a world that has gradually grown and changed a lot in recent years, so it was important to give an answer in this regard. I really thank all the collaborators, those outside the Chamber who believed in it, and then I really thank the structure and leadership of the Senate of the Republic. This is a complicated measure, which we have been working on for many months. I would particularly like to thank Dr Di Cesare of the 7th Commission and Dr Piccardi, who has solved a number of problems within the 5th Commission. Of course, I would like to thank Minister Franceschini, his offices and above all the Undersecretary Cesaro, who has followed our work with minutia and helped us to put the draft law under consideration in a balance that was not easy to find, precisely because of the issues I mentioned earlier. Finally, but not for importance, I would like to thank President Marcucci who, with his usual competence and wisdom, has brought together this world of the 7th Commission and has conducted work on a difficult measure and which has had a particularly complex process because of a fundamental question, namely the fact that we had to find a balance between the parliamentary activity that was already started and the measure that came from the Government, therefore the related bill, which we welcomed because it opened us a motorway, in the sense that, both as regards funding (being a bill linked to the law of stability) and for the times, he has given us a great deal of help. I therefore believe that, with everyone's work, we have produced a text which I hope we will be able to examine carefully in September. Of course, we are available for the amending work that the House will still have to do, considering that many of the opposition's amendments have already been accepted in the Commission and that, therefore, a great deal of joint work has already been done. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u215	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u218	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on the order of business in order to stigmatize this course of action. It is unacceptable that only the report of such an important measure should be made, which, according to the promises made by the Government, should have seen the end of the process in the Senate before the summer break. It is clear that today it has been decided to incardinate the provision and make the report only in order to go to the Venice Festival and say that in the Senate the provision has been incardinated. We would like it to remain in the record that the report made by Senator Di Giorgi - whom we thank for the work we have done - absolutely does not guarantee that after the summer break, this measure can be recovered and see the light in the Senate quickly. Let us remember that, among other things, the measure had been linked to the financial maneuver precisely to have a quick process and this also imposed a certain regulation of parliamentary work, affecting the possibility for the oppositions to intervene on the text. I hope, therefore, that it remains to the record that all the maneuver is made only to go to the Venice Festival and say that in the Senate we did the task. The task has not been done: to remain in the proceedings. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u219	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2271, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 282, 453, 454 and 1236. The rapporteur, Senator Cociancich, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u220	Mr President, I refer to the draft law which has made a significant and important commitment to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the other committees which have made the opinions and which has also involved significant work of inquiry, since we have audited many of the parties involved in some way by the provisions of the draft law. I would like to extend non-ritual thanks to everyone, especially the members of the 1st Commission and, of course, to President Finocchiaro, for the constructive and proactive spirit that characterized this work. It is a draft law which has been accompanied by a lot of attention from the public too and which is considered by all to be extremely urgent. That is why, I believe, everyone has made themselves responsible in trying to find the most shared solutions possible. I would like to briefly summarise the main features of this measure, which first establishes a Fund for pluralism and innovation in information, aimed at ensuring the full implementation of the principles set out in Article 21 of the Constitution (freedom, independence and pluralism of information), both at national and local level, and at stimulating innovation in information provision and distribution and sales processes. Basically, there is a transitional regime that should accompany publishing companies from the current crisis to a situation that should enable them, thanks to technological innovation, to remain on the market with their own legs, relying on their own resources and on their own ability to sell the product they supply. On this Fund there are three elements: the state resources allocated to support daily and periodic publishing; the state resources allocated to radio and television broadcasting in the local area, including those entered in the estimates of the Ministry of Economic Development; and then a share part, up to a maximum amount of 100 million euros per year, of the possible greater revenues deriving from the RAI fee that, as we know, will be collected this year within the electricity bill. Finally, a further element is envisaged, i.e. a solidarity contribution of 0.1 per cent of the total income of the advertising agents of companies operating in the information and communication sector or of other intermediaries in the advertising market. The Fund will be distributed annually between the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Economic Development, in accordance with their respective responsibilities. The draft law also regulates the procedures by which Parliament will have the opportunity to speak and to verify compliance with the criteria set out in the allocation. As regards the definition of the audience of the beneficiaries, this bill consists mainly of a delegation to the Government to redefine the discipline of the direct contributions to the publishing companies of newspapers and periodicals and to stimulate the investments for the innovation of the information offer. The publishing companies formed as journalistic cooperatives will be able to access the funding, identifying criteria relating to the company structure and the concentration of shares in each member, non-profit-making and assimilated entities, limited to a period of three years - this was the initial forecast; but this is also the subject of an amendment, on which I have already anticipated my positive opinion - so limited to a period of five years from the date of entry into force of the law, publishing companies of newspapers and periodicals, the majority of whose capital is held by cooperatives, foundations or non-profit-making moral entities. There are also publishing companies of newspapers and periodicals that are the expression of linguistic minorities, enterprises that are intended for the visually impaired, consumer associations included in the list referred to in Article 137 of Legislative Decree No 206 of 2005, publishing companies of Italian newspapers and magazines published or distributed abroad in Italian language. Information bodies of political and trade union parties or movements, specialist journals of a technical, business, professional and scientific nature and publishing companies of newspapers and periodicals of companies which are listed on the stock exchange are excluded from financing. There are further criteria: it is necessary, for example, for the company to have a seniority of constitution and edition of the magazine of at least two years, to demonstrate the regular fulfilment of the obligations deriving from national or territorial employment collective agreements, to publish the magazine in digital, dynamic and multimedia format, possibly in parallel with the edition in paper format, to show the contributions received, to have the obligation not to take measures that, in any way, are detrimental to the image of the body of the woman. The legislative decrees to be issued by the Government will have to provide a maximum ceiling for the contribution that can be paid to each enterprise, linked to the percentage impact of the contribution on the total income and up to the maximum measure of 50%. Legislative decrees will also have to provide as uniform and uniform settlement rules as possible for the different types of target companies and simplify the administrative procedure, in order to arrive at shorter winding-up times. There are also measures concerning the liberalisation of the newspaper sales system. Finally, the second important part of this bill concerns the composition and powers of the National Council of the Order of Journalists. It was envisaged, thanks to an amendment that was voted on, that the Council of Journalists should consist of sixty members and that there should be a regional representation. The legislative decree must also provide for the electoral system, guaranteeing maximum territorial representativeness. There is provision for alignment with the general system with regard to age and contribution requirements for access to social shock absorbers and early retirement pensions. It is established that the Committee on the vote on fair compensation in journalistic work lasts until the adoption of the resolution defining the fair compensation itself, because today it feels like a scourge of the sector that many operators perceive a really too modest compensation. Finally, Article 45 of Law No 69 of 3 February 1963 is amended, with the statue that no one can take up the title or practise the profession of journalist unless he is included in the list of professionals or in that of publicists of the register established by the Regional or Interregional Order responsible. Violation of that provision constitutes a criminal offence. That concludes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u221	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u222	Mr President, the draft law before us is nothing more than a text that brings together two proposals for parliamentary initiative in a rediscovered unity between PD and SEL in the House. I would just like to remind you that they had come along with the elections to enter the Porcellum majority prize and then divided themselves, immediately after the elections, into separate parliamentary groups. The text contains several delegations to the Government, which will therefore have the freedom to write what it wants, since the delegations are not detailed. This, although it is in the other branch of Parliament, and in the first Senate Commission, there has been a deepening, through a series of hearings, with all the actors in the publishing sector, in order to define and better know the issues covered by the legislative intervention. The contents of the bill concern the model of public support for publishing, the pension system of journalists and the discipline of the National Council of the Order of Journalists. Needless to say, these considerations should already make us think about our legislators' office. The question we then ask ourselves is: what are we doing in the Senate if we then just ratify decisions already taken elsewhere? We are legislators, until proven otherwise, and we would have wanted to fill out these delegations by evaluating us in depth, in order to reach a shared text. We hoped to close that unproductive opposition between government and opposition on issues that - let's never forget - in conclusion concern freedom of expression. We also wonder why there should be rules in this text which should be the subject of specific regulatory action concerning the distribution system and the opening hours of newspaper outlets. I would just like to point out, for example, that here in the Senate a draft law has been passed which rewrites - in part, it should be said - the rules on competition and liberalisation. I note, by way of illustration, that these are the only rules that can be accepted in this text, which is largely to be rejected. The liberalisation of points of sale is not a regulatory choice, but the consequence of the fact that nowadays information and its contents are everywhere thanks to the web, which contains not only the websites of traditional newspapers, but also the wide world of social media and providers, which increasingly enrich their websites with informative content. And the choice is not limited to the only Italian sites, but extends to sites around the world, and in this the choice is so vast, that it does not know opening times or closing times, being sites consultable day and night, on the mobile phone, tablet, computer and on the hi-tech televisions. Moreover, just read the international rankings to get these feedbacks and their reliability is also demonstrated by the rankings that are drawn up by the specialized operators on the users who visit the different Internet sites, even those that are purely informational. The contents, therefore, are no longer exclusive to the traditional publishers of printed paper, but are everywhere. And this is well emphasized, because the traditional system of contributions to publishing - which we will see is perpetuated also in this bill - is still linked to the old method of counting the copies sold and the ones rendered. To this diverse world of free and free information, which is now traveling at an incredible speed, it would have been necessary and necessary to respond by making the printed paper market more dynamic. Instead, the bill has the same cultural approach as the laws of the 1990s on the subject. The Fund for Plurality and Innovation in Information is hereby established at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. It would be better to say it is reconstituted, because it had already been established by the 2016 Stability Act. In this renewed Fund affix the resources already reserved for publishing, those destined for the local issue and a quota, up to 100 million, of the RAI canon (according to the mechanism of collection that happens through the electric bill from July this year, to the immense joy of all Italians). Then, being this the Government of the taxes, could not miss a new tax created ad hoc. This will be the responsibility of advertising dealers, companies that collect advertising in direct form and other entities, including Internet providers, dedicated to advertising. It will amount to 0.1 per cent of the total income of each company involved. With the usual regulatory cunning, which we now unfortunately know, it has been called a contribution of solidarity, so that it can also feed the above-mentioned Fund. The breakdown of the amounts is therefore between the Ministry of Economic Development and the Presidency of the Council. Each of them will assess the respective actions and the distribution of aid. As we said, it is a mechanism of at least thirty years old, both in the publishing sector and in the local broadcasting sector. They just want to add further to the advertising market players of a further bloodletting. We will find, therefore, prosperous and fruitful companies that have to pay some more burden to companies that the market fails to reward. Also in this measure, a further delegation to the Government is introduced to try to give a new order to the discipline of the direct contributions to the publishing. The beneficiaries will be journalistic cooperatives, non-profit institutions and, for only three years, publishing companies whose majority is owned by cooperatives or non-profit institutions. Of course, we are talking about companies that are supposed to be doing information. The idea of the world of information is, in fact, old and linked to an old way of receiving contributions, yet this mechanism is perpetuated, in fact surpassed by the emerging world of contemporary information. The only thing that is certain is that all the information bodies of parties, trade unions and even specialist journals which have so far benefited from public support will be excluded from this public contribution mechanism. Of course, when parties and politicians are pointed out in the eyes of the public as responsible for every nefariousness, it is clear that it was necessary to hit them in order to put more fun tweets on the net. The Renzi Government is also given a further delegation to carry out the revision of the journalist's pension system, in order to make it gradually similar to the pension provisions concerning the vast majority of Italians, who are obviously less favourable than those currently in force for journalists. In fact, it is also necessary to go hand in hand with a not exactly virtuous management of the journalist's pension institution and to study rules similar to the general pension system, already subject to various reforms, from Dini to Fornero, until the last changes introduced. On this subject one could have tried to have a mediation in the Senate. Another delegation is planned to reform the National Council of the Order of Journalists, reducing its membership to a maximum of 60, compared to today's 144. This, too, seems to be a delegation which goes to make up for the lack of self-reform of journalists themselves, but which could have been resolved in Parliament. There is even news of a rule that should be repealed, that concerning the abuse of the journalistic profession. It remains difficult to understand how the abuse of the journalistic profession can still present itself as a crime at a time when anyone publishes news, as if writing it or spreading news was the exclusive prerogative of those who are enrolled in a list of a professional order. Probably the norm serves to make the usual repressing by the Order of Journalists to the entertainer or TV entertainer on duty who, in addition to keeping company to the public, also makes him journalistic information. The text therefore alternates immediate norms with others that require implementation by the Government but even, in a very contradictory way, on the same subjects. In essence, it is a text that is certainly still too confusing, although it includes important intentions, such as those of the reform of publishing and local emitency, of the pension system of journalists, which could and should have been better deepened and dealt with in Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u223	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u224	Mr President, the measure we are about to vote on is a clear-cut one; a proposal for a law which aims to set up a Fund for Plurality and Innovation and delegates to the Government for the redefinition of the discipline of public support for publishing, as the title of the bill states. The sector modified by this draft law has been the subject, in recent years, of numerous legislative interventions that have changed its structure, all in line with a general policy of containment of public expenditure and with a consequent contraction of the audience of the beneficiaries of the contributions themselves. It is not a mystery, in fact, that the large newspapers are no longer receiving direct funding and, among them, those receiving any form of support represent a very limited reality compared to the total number: we are talking about 215 newspapers out of about 7,000. To date this remains one of the sectors that is facing a serious crisis, not for a short time but for years, despite 20 million Italians continue to be readers of newspapers and periodicals and this number represents a substantial part of the population. Perhaps, however, I suspect that such readers are seen as customers of bars, as viewers of TV press reviews and much less as buyers, also for the enormous use - pointed out a moment ago by my colleague Rizzotti - of information coming from the web and from newspapers that can be used online and not for payment. It would therefore be foolish to continue to ignore the irreversible process of transforming information. The information world is an essential sector for the quality of our democracy. It is no coincidence that our Constitution, among its fundamental principles, sets itself the objective of protecting pluralism of information and the right of freedom to be informed and to inform. In this sense, guaranteeing a concrete and authentic freedom of the press means allowing all the voices to occupy their cultural space, cutting for themselves a slice of the communication market, sometimes even a small slice, even of the niches of this market, being able to have equal dignity compared to the various newspapers; be they traditional, innovative or online it does not matter. Very often, even in this House, there has been the problem of the distribution of public resources to be directed towards publishing in order to ensure full pluralism in absolute transparency, identifying objective criteria that are indisputable and easy to use. Information and transparency are principles that the Government preaches and emphasizes very often, but much more frequently without any conclusive behavior. In this regard, the example of the RAI canon appears to me to remain on the subject. The Government has supported the novelty of the fee collected with the electricity bill, motivating it, among other things, with additional resources available from this collection, through precisely the electricity bill, destined to the fund distributed annually between the Presidency of the Council and the Ministry of Economic Development in support of daily and periodic publishing and local broadcasters. We will see if that happens. However, some doubt is legitimate to feed him before the Government of the announcements and of the few achievements. Returning to the text of the bill, one cannot fail to note the important and substantial delegations to the Government to redefine at the same time the discipline of public support for publishing, to regulate the retirements of journalists, to rearrange the rules concerning the Council of the Order of Journalists, to innovate the distribution system with a view to greater liberalization. As for the intervention of reorganization and rationalization of the functioning of the council, we had tabled amendments because we pointed out that the rules of reorganization of the functioning of the National Council of the Order of Journalists present obvious criticalities in the forecast referred to in Article 2, fifth paragraph, point (a) (2) and (3). In particular, with reference to point 2 and to the provision of alternative appeals before the ordinary judge or before the National Council of the Order of Journalists, with possible appeal to the President of the Republic, it is stressed that it is not possible to provide for the possibility of appeal with extraordinary appeal to the President of the Republic of the decisions of the National Council of the Order of Journalists; this is because, pursuant to Article 7 (8) of Legislative Decree No 104 of 2010, the extraordinary appeal is allowed only for disputes devolved to the administrative jurisdiction. If you choose the path of administrative jurisdiction, you can also think of the extraordinary appeal to the Head of State; if you choose the path of appeal before the national council, that road is precluded. We tried to amend in this respect, but the amendments were not adopted in the Commission. However, the systematic inconsistency of the rule introduced is clear since, pursuant to Article 63 of Law No 69 of 1963, appeals for decisions of the national council are made to ordinary jurisdiction, so there is a contrast between the new rule and the existing one, in force and not amended by Law No 69 of 1963. In this sense, too, this problem of discrasia should be raised. In addition, with reference to point 3 and to the provision of an active social security position for advertisers at the INPGI in order to be able to exercise the passive electorate, there is an unfair discrimination against those publicist journalists who have an active position with social security institutions other than INPGI. It is not understood, in fact, the purpose of the forecast since for journalists publicists does not apply the principle of professional exclusivity that binds the professionals, and above all that the ownership of an active social security position at the INPGI does not affect the registration in the list of advertisers. In fact, the same limiting forecast is not foreseen for professional journalists not enrolled in INPGI, and this underlines the irrationality of a provision that presents itself with dubious constitutional legitimacy. But in addition to these remarks which expressly concern Article 2, many others can be made, precisely because of the consistency and thickness of those delegations, of which I spoke earlier. It remains unsolved, and this would have been an opportunity to better address the problem, of concrete access to the profession; a problem that is perhaps common to all the other autonomous professions, to professions similar to that of the journalist, but which becomes even more delicate and more complicated to solve if we think of the sad reality of practitioners or young people who are underpaid and who perhaps have a freelance future, to use an emphatic term, but in short of professionals who will never have a long-term organic relationship and, especially from the economic point of view, that can assure serenity to their own life plan or their families, just because this issue has not been addressed here. Maybe this could be a train to take without just dealing with the rules relating to the functioning of the Order. Another point I would like to make concerns Article 6, with regard to the new provisions which are introduced for the sale of newspapers. It was also mentioned in the introductory report on liberalization which is more or less inoculated into the system in order to promote sales and to create a new element. But I would say that in the face of the proliferation of online sales, digital subscriptions in newspapers and in the face of a smaller purchase of copies in newsstands, the crisis of newsstands and retail outlets that directly deliver the newspaper or the magazine to their customers is now irreversible. More than talking about liberalisation, I would aim to try to make these newsstands more attractive containers, perhaps using other forms that were a time of monopoly or, however, that could be managed differently from the State. I am thinking of the concessions that the Customs and Monopoly Agency can still provide and distribute, which could be used, together with newsstands, in newspaper outlets. In other words, we must find a way to make the newsstands and outlets more attractive. This could put an end to or in any case reduce the problem of the death of newsstands or their economic insecurity. This is also a missed opportunity. In conclusion, the measure before us has many lights and shadows. The bill could have given us the opportunity to seize further possibilities, but this was not the case and, therefore, remains the regret of a missed opportunity. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u225	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u226	Mr President, this measure on publishing is the latest in a very large number of measures that have been adopted over the years. It would be interesting to have a historical chronology of the measures taken in this area over the years. We could outline them in such a way. For several years the press and publishing measures have been structured in such a way that all the periodicals (including large newspapers, which are often large companies and, especially in the past years, with a remarkable and very healthy economic development) received from the State significant subsidies, of the order of several million euros each, on the basis of parameters such as the used paper, the number of copies distributed and so on. Over the years, attention has focused mainly on the party press, which enjoyed special benefits. However, speaking of party newspapers, we forgot that there were many other battleships that received even more funding, certainly in the face of far greater circulations, but with less need. Beyond the unpopularity that has emerged over the years, funding to the party press had a particular reason for implementing the recognition of the role of political parties in the Constitution and for the benefit of pluralism of information. Over the years, these facilities have been reduced first and then reserved only for certain categories of newspapers and periodicals. It will be a case, but just when the aid, subsidies and subsidies have been removed from the large press and limited to the one particularly protected (i.e., increasingly partial and marginal, to the party press, to the one run by journalists' cooperatives, or to those types of corporate structures that are particularly protected by the law still today), the great anti-caste campaign on the hateful privileges of parliamentarians was born. It is certainly a case, but just when the great newspapers no longer took subsidies, which were very difficult to justify, there was the great discovery and the great anti-caste battle. It may be that only by coincidence did it emerge during that period. It certainly was not raised in itself by the famous figures of the costs of politics, which had already been largely reduced, because when they were much higher the great press had nothing to say about it. He had something to say when these benefits were widely reduced and, always for a curious time combination, the real privileges for the great newspapers were reduced. This led to a situation in which only particular corporate structures benefited from this aid. Given the wording of the law, there have been some newspapers - including some of those particularly active, even today, in denouncing the supposed privileges of parliamentarians, even if in reality we should talk about 'prerogative', which are far inferior to those in the other great European countries and not only - that have managed to give themselves protection, through the alleged assumption of the form of party journalism, perhaps of a party born in the laboratory, with the signature of a senator and a Member of the Mixed Group, and that they have still managed to obtain considerable advantages, albeit decreasing, from the coffers of the State. A very important measure has been approved in the last parliamentary term, in which further efforts have been made to outline the profiles that must characterize the beneficiaries of these funds, which in the meantime have been very small. These funds as a whole are really a grain in the great mass of the state budget: we will talk about this again during the debate on the measure. In my view, measures have therefore been taken which are particularly effective in order to prevent certain periodicals or publishers from taking forms presumably similar to those which could actually be eligible for State aid. This measure was particularly effective and strict, since the characteristics that the newspapers must have, in order to go to see only then, at the bottom of the list, were not established, how much this cost to identify the amount allocated, but the opposite was done, i.e. a very small sum was found compared to the previous years, to which only certain categories and newspapers could have access. If the warheads were to be more numerous than reasonably expected, subsidies and subsidies would have been proportionally reduced. This is therefore a particularly strict and conservative attitude on the part of the legislator. The draft law before us therefore intervenes in an already very difficult situation. All those who today perceive something, perceive much less than what they perceived before, and this in a very difficult period for all the newspapers, beginning with the greatest, the oldest and most prestigious. We know that this comes from a number of factors, such as the economic crisis, which means that many Italians have to cut their family spending and identify as one of the targets of the cuts precisely by buying newspapers and periodicals. For another is the competition of the Internet, which offers in a generally free way a huge mass of news, certainly not always good choices, even for nothing, often not very reliable and with great difficulty to distinguish the unreliable from the unreliable. But it is in fact that the great mass of information on the Internet is there, and this has determined all over the world, even in countries where there is no particular economic crisis, a crisis in the field of information on newspaper newspapers on any support and, in particular, on paper. Therefore, all the reductions that are made today take place as a result of other reductions and as a result of the heavy sacrifices required as a result of the great difficulties that the companies have placed themselves in. This measure, in my opinion, has some defects that we have then tried to identify, proposing amendments that try to remedy precisely the criticalities found in the draft law. Firstly, there are no guarantees. There is a total discretion entrusted to the Government for the allocation of those funds, very limited and reduced compared to the past, but there is no certainty of how much of these funds will really go to small publishing, local information and how much, instead, to other subjects. There is not even a certainty as to the type of means of communication to which these funds will be directed: all this, not on the basis of objective data, but on the basis of a very wide discretion entrusted to the Government. Meanwhile, we, of course, as a force of opposition, cannot enjoy giving great discretion to the Government that we do not support and that we oppose. Objectively, however, the reason for these subsidies is to guarantee and support the pluralism of information, in the light of the need to safeguard minorities, which can be of many kinds. The typical minority safeguarded at the level of the Constitution is linguistic, but there are also intellectual, cultural, religious or even simply niche interests, which can be deserving of some support. In the text approved in the Commission, there is no guarantee that these funds will go to those entities, which should be worthy and which the law has always considered worthy, once with more funds and now with less funds. This is not good, because pluralism means precisely protecting, according to precise rules, all of them, regardless of the discretionary choices of the Government. Among other things, those who have the power of the government on their side have the way to make their voice heard without the need for subsidies, without the need for funding and without the need for special attention. Those who do not have this possibility must be protected. And that everything is handed over to the government, frankly, is a contradiction. There is also a situation on which I have called for the attention of the Commission. We are talking about a three-year regime. And after these three years you don't understand how it ends. Let us bear in mind that, although they have been partly subsidised, they are still companies, which today can not certainly (as it was until some time ago) stand more only on state aid. And that was wrong. There were newspapers, frankly little more than virtual ones, that claimed to sell thousands of copies with the so-called screaming (which the younger ones don't even know what it is), with copies therefore not quantifiable. And on the basis of this, they received money, printed copies, and distributed some in places where it was easy to distribute them, that is, the House and the Senate, and somehow survived. This can no longer be done: whether it was good or bad. These companies had to face up to the market. Well, these companies are told: we don't let you die right away (even if someone dies right away), but for three years we use this regime. We are talking about companies and I wonder what plans a company can make not knowing what will happen in the fourth year. What can you program? We are talking about jobs, people, journalists, non-journalist staff working for these newspapers, for these companies, and thinking that the little that is given is distributed so that it is virtually impossible to determine how much will be perceived to date also for those who have taken a figure on the basis of certain parameters. However, it is already known that in four years you go to nobody's land. All this is really problematic for these companies, for these workers and for these Italian citizens who work in this sector, precisely because it is hoped that they will somehow succeed also in placing themselves on the market. However, this situation of grave uncertainty should be known. Those who are too busy making laws thinking that the more laws they make, the better, should know that actually less laws are made and the better for all those who operate on the market. In fact, the fluctuations of the market and those of the tastes of the audience that are hopefully destined for journalistic products are already sufficient: it is already more than enough to create uncertainty. If the rules change often and even in this case it is stated that a rule is being prepared that does not know what will happen in three years' time, this causes more damage than a reduction of funds that, however, gives a glimmer of certainty for the future. What investments can he make? We ask these companies to modernise themselves, to become particularly active on the Internet and to this end we also give a little help, but for a short time, after that we do not know. How can investment in such a situation be made? You avoid bankruptcy, so you will spend less and less, so we accompany to death many small enterprises. For goodness sake, the harsh law of the market also provides that companies, as they are born, sometimes die; however, if the State has to intervene, it must not do so in order to facilitate the death of companies, but in order to facilitate their birth or survival. In the Commission, to a certain surprise, I have heard that it is done for three years on purpose, because within that time, businesses must be put on the market; therefore, the intention to support pluralism is completely abandoned. This measure is a sort of euthanasia; there is an extension of an agony that ensures that at least, before the next elections and the vote on the referendum, there are not too many newspapers that have to celebrate their obituary, that they have to do the last issue in the form of obituary instead of ordinary newspaper numbers, but maybe we will have to have a little different perspectives. We know that on certain things you are inexorably for the market without mercy, but then when you deal with billionaire entities suddenly you find that the guarantee is very beautiful. I believe that perhaps, if anything, we should have the opposite attitude, especially in areas where information has a fundamental function, as I said before, it guarantees pluralism and gives a voice to minorities, of whatever kind. But then when it comes to billions of business, there is great protection for those who were there before and for what has always had billionaire facilities from the state: in that case we suddenly become guaranteed. I see here a disparity that I really do not like, is not in conformity with the Constitution and I believe it is not in accordance with the public interest. In the Commission, the very kind and well-prepared rapporteur, Senator Cociancich, expressed a certain willingness to the House. That is what happened in the Commission, and I hope that this willingness will come about in some way and that it is not just an act of courtesy, though it is welcome. Many who are following our work keep up businesses and cultural initiatives that give local vitality. I remember that there are not only the big cities: Italy is not only made by Rome, Milan and sometimes also by Naples and Turin; there are also the small realities, with difficulties of distribution, which are kept alive thanks to small newspapers that give an identity to the territory, constitute a point of reference, give information and sometimes perform a service for the benefit of the people. Italians are all the same, even if there are certain provisions of law - even if I do not want to open a controversy - for which it seems that the worthy Italians are only those who live in the big cities, while those who live in small towns or in small and very small municipalities are Italians of series B, with less rights and more taxes. They are already in objectively more difficult situations, because even just to go to the registry or to an important center for certain needs, from sanitary to bureaucratic or of any kind, they are already disadvantaged; let's not massacre them. [[Recalls of the President]] Well, these small realities are often recognized and kept alive by small warheads who survive thanks also - let us be honest - to state aid. The rapporteur will be well aware of the scale of this money, which is very few; it is not by cutting off those we solve any problems, but by creating very serious problems if we are obliged to close the very beautiful and important realities for our social fabric. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u227	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u228	Madam President, the opposition of the 5 Star Movement to this bill could not be more radical because the 5 Star Movement has in its programme the abolition of public funding for publishing. This clear position starts precisely from the belief that a direct thread between a government, whatever political color it is, and newspapers produce dynamics that go in exactly the opposite direction to what are also the intentions of the majority's proposal, namely to protect pluralism, independence and autonomy of information. As can also be seen from a careful reading of the dossier, in order to achieve these objectives it would be necessary to identify measures that avoid the centralization of power in the hands of the few. In addition, the reasons why the competences relating to publishing relate to the 7th edition are not understood are not clear. Commission at the House, while here in the Senate everything goes to the 1st Commission. This distribution, in our view, does not only concern a formal aspect, but ends up conditioning the nature and the treatment of the matter itself, beyond the specific aspects of interest. Secondly, as far as the procedural procedure of the measure is concerned, it should be pointed out that this Senate act becomes only the last in order of time between the measures that take place and which arrive in this Chamber in an unmotivated haste, without it being possible to adequately assess the text which has been issued with substantial and significant amendments from the Commission and with a deadline for the expiry of the amendments that were initially laughable (since only forty minutes had been given, then extended) that in fact frustrates the possibility of making a real and reasoned contribution. The present, moreover, is a subject that involves many profiles of interest, also because publishing (as a whole) inevitably cannot fail to intercept that liquid society, complex and multiform, ventilated by sociologists, where information grows to an extent and to the detriment of knowledge, thanks also to the great IT-digital transformation and the dusting of languages, and in which many, including the very young, live continuously connected and in a perennial need to chase, or simply, perhaps, make known to exist. We believe that it is very difficult for such a measure to contribute to the improvement of the general condition of information in our country. We are of the exact opposite idea, also because, from our point of view, it represents yet another waste of public money. We could say, in summary, that with this funding, once again, the government puts its hands on information, and that is precisely where we justify the haste we have denounced. In fact, in our opinion, the direct thread between the Government and the publishers is precisely on the opposite side of what, at least in words, is the main objective of the measure, namely to promote pluralism of information. To promote pluralism in a radically changed perspective of information - as the majority rapporteur himself acknowledged and stressed - means to reason on the wide-ranging online universe, to safeguard the autonomy of information, but also to try to understand how to encourage and restore those cultural mediations of which the publishing system as a whole is a prime and privileged vehicle. We are in the presence of the establishment of a new publishing fund, within the reordering of the discipline of state contributions. The new law will determine which publishing companies will have to take the money and who, what will be the future organization of the Order, that is, the body of self-government of the category and who will be able to retire (who knows who). There are, therefore, aspects of this provision that do not precisely pertain to the main purpose of the measure itself, such as the early retirement of journalists or the system of selling and distributing newsstands, exclusive and non-exclusive sellers, the thorny issue of the Order of Journalists, an institution that we consider absolutely obsolete: all arguments that would have deserved a different space than some incidental paragraph in this text of delegation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u229	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss draft law No 2271, which contains: The establishment of the Fund for Plurality and Innovation of Information and Delegations to the Government for the redefining of the discipline of public support for the publishing sector, the discipline of pension profiles of journalists and the composition and competences of the National Council of the Order of Journalists, all this title to speak of the possible public support for the publishing sector and the local issue. The bill was drawn up by the Democratic Party's parliamentary groups and the Left Ecology and Freedom. The primary argument of the draft law under consideration is the forthcoming and possible establishment of the Fund for Plurality and Innovation of Information at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Let us go down in detail and see where this Fund will be set up. First of all, it was planned to be set up in the Presidency of the Council. Secondly, it would take the place of the fund conceived at the Ministry of Economic Development, already provided for by the 2016 Stability Act. The Fund will contribute several resources that will be directed towards the support of daily and periodic publishing, in addition to the digital one: state resources for the different forms of support for daily, periodic and digital publishing; state resources for radio and television broadcasting in the local area; a share, up to a maximum amount of 100 million for the period 2016-2018, for the revenues of the RAI fee; amounts deriving from the solidarity contribution equal to 0.1 per cent of the income of the advertisers. Further clarification regarding this list of revenues: the Assembly of Palazzo Montecitorio has left out of the calculation of the proceeds the sum of money coming from the fines of the AGCOM. The Group of the Democratic Party and of the Left Ecology and Freedom decided to redefine the discipline of public support for publishing by delegation to the Government. As if that were not enough, the Government will have to revise further the discipline of the pension profiles of journalists, the composition and competences of the National Council of the Order of Journalists. Draft Law No 2271 lists the beneficiaries who will be included in the redefinition of public support for the publishing sector. These include local televisions, journalistic cooperatives, non-profit organizations, newspapers expressing linguistic minorities, periodicals for blind and visually impaired persons, consumer associations, and Italian-language newspapers distributed abroad. They will be excluded from funding: the media of political parties or movements and trade unions; specialist journals of a technical, business, professional or scientific nature; publishing companies of newspapers and periodicals which form part of publishing groups listed or participated by listed companies. Finally, the National Council of the Order of Journalists is reduced. The Council is currently composed of 144 members who, with the reform, want to reduce to 60, of which two thirds professional journalists, including at least one representative of recognized linguistic minorities, and a third publicist, including at least one representative of recognized linguistic minorities. The latter must hold an active social security position at the National Institute of Social Security for Italian Journalists. In this draft law on publishing, there are many negative elements; on the contrary, the novelties are few and lack of positivity. Scrolling through the text of the provision, it provides for numerous delegations, with little regard to the contents that the Government will adopt with the delegation. I conclude by expressing the absolute opposition to this draft law on publishing; a measure which aims, once again, to extend the tentacles of the center-left on the possibility of manipulating the publishing sector, a situation that already occurs for most of the newspapers. To be saved, but only in part, are the rules that would give the opportunity to discuss the liberalisation of the distribution system and the opening hours of newspaper outlets, even if this could already be provided for in the draft competition law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u231	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u232	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a measure on the subject of publishing and, more generally, information. It is now well known that we are discussing an area that is going through dark moments of deep crisis. In addition to a dramatic drop in newspaper sales, which threatens the survival of very important sources of information, there are also difficulties in the advertising sector, which is still struggling to recover. Well, while some provisions of this measure are positive, overall the judgment is strongly critical, as nothing is done; on the contrary, it worsens a situation that is already disadvantaged and that suffers the blows of the economic crisis that, for years, leaves no breath to our country. The only point that we can share is the provision through which we promote, in agreement with the Regions, a regime of full liberalization of the opening hours of the points of sale and we proceed to the removal of the obstacles that limit the possibility to widen the assortment and the mediation of other goods and services. Of course, it would have been appropriate to introduce this new liberalisation into the competition bill for this purpose. All the rest of the measure is absolutely not acceptable. It is, in fact, a very heterogeneous bill: most of the provisions delegate to the Government for new rules on publishing; others provide for the introduction of additional taxes for a sector that - I repeat - has been going through a deep crisis for several years. With regard to critical profiles, Article 1 establishes the Fund for Plurality and Innovation of Information and reads, in its operative part, that the Fund includes, in addition to State resources, a share, up to a maximum of EUR 100 million, of any additional revenue paid as a subscription fee to television; furthermore, the sums resulting from the annual revenue of a solidarity contribution equal to 0.1 per cent of the total income of advertising dealers, information companies and other persons engaged in brokerage in the advertising market. The serious thing is that we read 'contribution of solidarity', but it represents a whole new tax. Forza Italia, here in the Senate, has made a great contribution and, although many proposals for amendments have not been accepted, others of great importance have been. One of them is the provision that the National Council of the Order of Journalists has 60 members, which is of undoubted importance. Before the change desired by Forza Italia, it was proposed to reduce the number of advisers to 36, but without realizing that, with that small composition, the procedures of operation of the Council were likely to be blocked and, moreover, the criterion of representation of all the Regions of Italy was canceled. I applaud the significant contribution that Forza Italia has made to the Commission and I strongly criticize the measure because it does not make any significant contribution to the freedom of the press, which is hindered. Ma'am, I'm gonna make a final note to the government. I would like special attention to be paid to the exercise of the delegation to contributions to linguistic pluralism. It is, in fact, well known that newspapers that are written with the use of local languages, due to the scarcity of copies sold, and television programmes produced for a linguistic minority need special help. For this reason I address the Government because on the subject, in the exercise of its delegation, it undertakes to avoid a cultural loss due to the abandonment of the languages and dialects that strongly characterize all together our Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u233	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u234	Madam President, the measure we are debating here today has already been approved in the House of Members and is the result of the unification of two proposals for parliamentary initiative by the Democratic Party and the Left Ecology and Freedom. We are talking about the draft law on publishing or, better said, the establishment of the Fund for Plurality and Innovation of Information, the consequent delegations to the Government for the redefinition of the discipline of public support for the publishing and broadcasting sector, the discipline of pension profiles of journalists and the composition and competence of the National Council of the Order of Journalists, as well as the procedure for granting public radio, television and multimedia services. Going into the detail of the measure, the text proposes the establishment of the Fund just quoted from the Ministry of Economy - already provided for by the law of stability 2016 - to which flow the state resources that had already been allocated to support daily and periodic publishing, also digital, and to local broadcasting. The Fund will be complemented with an annual budget of €100 million for the period 2016-2018, resulting from the increased revenues of the RAI fee. The Fund will be open to local televisions, journalistic cooperatives, non-profit institutions, blind and visually impaired magazines, consumer associations and Italian-speaking newspapers distributed abroad. However, inexplicably, newspapers of political parties or movements, trade union bodies, publishers of newspapers and periodicals, which belong or are part of listed companies, are excluded. In addition, the Fund is distributed between the MISE and the Presidency of the Council for interventions of their respective competence, but with a mechanism that measures the weight of the different items of revenue of the resources also on the process of distributing the funds, without exceeding the device of existing aid, for publishing and for broadcasting. Turning then to the next article, it is expected to delegate to the Government regarding the redefinition of the discipline of public support for the publishing and broadcasting sector, the discipline of pension profiles of journalists and the composition and competences of the National Council of the Order of Journalists. The graduation of the contribution is linked to the number of annual copies sold, which may not be less than 30 per cent of the copies distributed for the sale for the local newspapers and 20 per cent of the copies distributed for the sale for the national newspapers, providing for more groups to which will correspond diversified shares of reimbursement of the production costs of the magazine and per copy sold, while for the online newspapers the graduation takes place according to the number of journalists hired, the update of the contents and the actual number of unique users achieved. The text also proposes to reform, by reordering and rationalising the rules, the National Council of the Order of Journalists, in the field of training and composition of the Council. One wonders, however, why it was decided to combine measures as different as aid for publishing and a reform of the Order of Journalists, which instead needed a thorough examination and a bill entirely dedicated. Despite this, we have also tried to improve this part of the measure: thanks to the contribution of Forza Italia, there is a maximum number of 60 advisors, of which two third professional journalists, including at least one representative of recognized linguistic minorities, and one third of publicists, including - again - at least one representative of recognized linguistic minorities, provided that they hold an active social security position at the National Institute of Insurance of Italian journalists. And with this part there is a strong discrimination between journalists and professionals, because only the first will have the obligation to register in the pension fund to be a member of the Council. In addition, new provisions are inserted for the reordering of contributions to publishing companies. In fact, it is expected that a contribution will be paid in two annual instalments, the first of which will be paid by 30 May, in advance of a sum equal to 50% of the contribution calculated as determined in the decree; while the second instalment, on balance, will be paid within the time limit for the conclusion of the procedure. And since the government didn't want to miss anything, with the bill in question we choose to write rules that, by their very nature, should have entered into the competition law. What, in fact, does the progressive liberalization of the sale of editorial products have to do with the other topics contained in this measure? It is known that there are conflicting views on competition law even within the same majority. Nobody doubts that the publishing world would need a thorough and comprehensive review, but that is certainly not the right measure. It is a confused bill, which deals with an audience of arguments too wide and, above all, gives only temporary and superficial answers. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u235	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u236	Madam President, I was quite excited and glad that this important bill finally arrived in the Chamber; an important measure for our country especially at this historic moment, when pluralism will have to be the protagonist of the political season, and not only. It is essential to stress that the reform of the system of public contributions to publishing was certainly expected by everyone and for a long time. We cannot fail to consider the positive aspect of the protection of pluralism, especially - as I said - at this historic moment, in which we are seeing an increasing concentration of publishing groups. Alas, I would like to stress that our country is still among the last places in Europe to invest per capita in the support of pluralism of information, although it has committed itself to promoting and guaranteeing freedom of expression and information. And why do I stress this? Just today, in our country we are not witnessing the exaltation of pluralism, as it was so much praised by someone who preceded me, but exactly the contrary. Today's action by the Government on the issue of RAI is far from pluralism; on the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, I would rather speak of monism. It has nothing to do with the'monatas' of the President-in-Office of the Council, but it is exactly the opposite of what we expected, namely pluralism. The arrogance that has been put on the table today by the President-in-Office of the Council and his gang in the appointment of the directors of RAI 1, RAI 2 and RAI 3 - the confirmation of RAI 1 is scandalous - is exactly the opposite of what one would like to pass. I would like to mention one of Renzi Matthew's famous tweets, which will pass to history. No later than 14 May 2014, at 24.14, he gave us a little of his openness and foresight regarding pluralism, writing: Don't be afraid. The future will also come to RAI. No party order. ♪ change the way ♪ ♪ Italiariparte ♪ Madam President, unfortunately, it is already in the title of this measure that we understand that this will is being ignored by the Government. Setting up the Fund for pluralism and innovation in information is, in fact, exactly the opposite of what is happening in the last hours in our country. We will probably see it this evening in the Parliamentary Committee on the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services. In that place we will see of cooked and raw, as it has already happened in the past. The substance, however, will not change. The arrogance of Renzi Matteo and his gang will deliver to this country the worst of the worst. In the past years, we have all taken on a stigmatizing attitude. And I would like to address my colleagues on the left, with whom I also shared the previous parliamentary term, who - quite rightly - were very fiercely attacking and launching conflicts of interest on alleged, but probably obvious, conflicts of interest. Today, more than conflicts of interest, we need to talk about plural delinquents. I would call them monists, i.e. those who really do - let me do so, Madam President, because it is a term that perhaps can also be used - of "monads." There is some good within the measure under consideration. My colleague, Mr Calderoli, has done four things and has tabled amendments to propose concrete solutions in favour of the local broadcasting, which we believe to be fundamental. The President-in-Office of the Council is making an insult to the Italians today with regard to RAI, but we always forget that the pluralism of information also passes through local televisions. In fact, in our country - the only case in Europe - the issue of local television is fundamental, because they, first of all, have made a great contribution to the economy - they make people work and manage advertising - and they really do information on the territories. In all the territorial realities of our country there is a private television that broadcasts local news and gives a type of information that public television does not offer. Among other things, there are those who live, as I do, on the borders of the empire where Mother RAI does not arrive, but surely comes the electricity bill with, hidden, the canon. It's a paradoxical situation. Last year the debate on the reform of the RAI took place in this House. Before perhaps the RAI did not work well, but, with deep respect for my colleague Gasparri, it was better when it was worse, because we have moved on to the current situation, in which Mr Campo Dall'Orto - a name, among other things, that I don't even like - gets a salary of more than 600,000 euros. All of these have made us morale. What are we talking about? Of the pluralism that you, colleagues of the Democratic Party, are decanting? Hidden between the folds of the provision there is something good, but not working in this country is the principle. Matteo Renzi said: outside the RAI parties. Then, however, they came in with legs and feet him and all his gang Bassotti. Are they all nice and ready to do what, Madam President? We come to the point of the situation: the political battle in this country we will play it next autumn with the referendum. Renzi prepared the troops, first of all by putting them in places where the vote is influenced. He put his men on television to try to bring home the result. The boy is a little worried, because the front of the no is increasingly pressing and, therefore, he is trying to place his troops, to try to bring home the votes he will need to make his scum, that is, constitutional reform. At this point, Madam President, all we have to do is appeal to the Head of State, for him to safeguard the article of the Constitution in which it is established that information is a citizen's right and must be pluralistic and transparent. Dear PD colleagues, we have returned to full fascism. That's the truth! Matteo Renzi has brought us back in full fascism, and we will see him this evening in the Radio Surveillance Commission and tomorrow with the nominations. It is a disgrace, Madam President! It is a shame the arrogance that is being seen these days in our country. And the thing that leaves me with bitterness in my mouth is that - I can assure you - I have lived badly the previous legislature, when sometimes we legists were in trouble for some naughty people who saw each other. Those, however, were naughty with respect to the arrogance that we see today. Silvio Berlusconi was an amateur! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] He was an amateur, Madam President, a poor man. Matteo Renzi is a top class: from that point of view he is a top class, and there is nothing else to say. However, I am convinced of one thing, Madam President. Italians aren't as dumb as anyone thinks. The boy, in our opinion, will see it a little 'ugly: I can assure you that the lies have short legs, like the "minds" he writes on Twitter. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senator Companione.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u237	Of course, more appropriate language would be better. You can say the same things without insulting, Senator Crosio. Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u238	Madam President, the draft law before us deals with too diverse points in the world of information and publishing, showing a lack of perspective for the development of a sector that is fundamental to the democracy of our country. The text of this measure addresses different aspects, which would have required further study. We do not understand why, despite the historical demands of most of the professionals, we did not want to go the way of a true and organic reform of the Order of Journalists, preferring, for unknown reasons, to dedicate to such a strategic body an absolutely residual part within a measure born in reality to regulate contributions to publishing. Yet the sector, the entire sector, deserves long-term projects, capable of conveying a world in ever faster evolution towards a future that, for so many publishers and for so many journalists, is instead made of uncertainties and economic difficulties. The media have, in fact, undergone an important transformation in recent years, resulting from a growing proliferation of online newspapers, which use new forms of interaction and communication with readers. In addition, the fact that the draft law gives the Presidency of the Council the power to exercise what appears to be an absolute and too discretionary control over the Plurality and Innovation Fund in information is negative. This is a turning point in relation to the previous provisions which risks limiting the autonomy of the information and communication sector and making Palazzo Chigi a centre of power and conditioning, which certainly did not feel the need. The system, designed for the distribution of contributions, also risks penalising in particular the local newspapers that, even in cases of equal circulation compared to national publications, could receive significantly lower contributions only by virtue of a lower capacity for advertising collection; a difficulty that - as is easily imaginable - will manifest especially in the most depressed areas of the country. This aspect, therefore, needs a more precise and careful evaluation, as requested also by the small publishers who have already proposed, with detailed graphs and calculations, what could be the real distortions. I also believe that yet another masked tax, the 0.1% leap over all advertising revenue, is not acceptable, which, although limited in size, gives a completely wrong signal to a sector which, especially at this time of difficulty, would have deserved tax relief, tax relief and benefits. The fact that we have chosen to call it a contribution of solidarity certainly does not weaken its scope. Moreover, I find it absolutely questionable the exclusion of some strategic sectors of the world of Italian information: I quote, for all, the magazines of high technical or scientific value, which give the cultural value of the country an absolutely indispensable contribution. It would have sufficed an extra effort - as requested by Forza Italia with a series of targeted amendments - to avoid what is, to all intents and purposes, an incomprehensible exclusion measure. From this point of view, however, I welcome the recognition, at least in other parts of the measure, of the commitment and constructive work of our Group and, in general, of the oppositions. I am referring in particular to the moderate reduction in the number of members of the National Council of the Order of Journalists. In fact, it was quite clear that the 36-member scissors voted by the Chamber would produce only the impossibility to operate the body that wanted to make it more agile and operational. The mediation to 60 members is instead acceptable, contesting also the just and necessary representation of the organisms of all the Regions. In conclusion, reaffirming the wrong overlap of uneven interventions that do not find the right attention, once again confirms the historical vice of this majority in the law-making in the name of I would like but I cannot. They make great proclamations, they announce amazing reforms and then, sadly, we end up with the adoption of rules of limited scope, of messy content, of dubious effectiveness. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u239	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u240	Madam President, this is a long-awaited reform by industry and the main objective is to support local publishing. Therefore, those who say that this is a reform to put their hands in the newspapers by the Government know neither the recent history of Italian publishing nor the current reality of the local press. The aim is to maintain as many voices as possible in addition to the national ones, but finally closing the season of contributions assigned to rain to those who are not entitled to it, and to codify rules of absolute transparency with restrictive criteria, indeed, better to say, objective. The 2001 law, in this sense, fixed some stakes, but its interpretation has led to different differences of treatment, so some local newspapers that regularly went out to the newsstands have seen the public funding removed, and others, which we could define, with an euphemism, fictitious, have continued to receive them. So this reform is absolutely necessary. It is a contribution to pluralism, even if the text that came out of the Chamber did not lack the criticalities, some of which have been overcome thanks to the work of the 1st Senate Commission and the availability of the rapporteur Cociancich and the Government. The reform comes at a time when the situation of Italian publishing, especially the local one, is dramatic. In the last five years in Italy there has been a progressive reduction in revenues in the information sector: the classic media have overall lost almost 2 billion euros, with a reduction of 16 percent in the period 2010-2014, with peaks above 30 percent in the case of newspapers. And it's an effect of digitalization on publishing. In view of the opportunities offered to the electronic communications system by new needs and new modes of consumption, digitisation has counter-trend effects on the demand for traditional communication and information services, first among all publishing products. Since 2010, the traditional information system has been going through a recessive phase that sees no way out, at least in the short to medium term. In addition to being affected by the economic and financial crisis, companies in the sector are faced with a structural crisis, as there is no room for growth in the provision of traditional services, while the new opportunities for development linked to the dissemination of the Internet do not compensate for paper losses. In publishing, revenues from advertising revenues decreased by 9 percent (from 941 million to 859 million euros); revenues from users are worth 1.2 billion, with a loss of 30 million (-2 percent): in particular, revenues from selling copies (-4 percent, equal to about 40 million). Not only that: as the president of the National Institute of Social Security for Italian journalists (INPGI) Camporese recently reported at his hearing in Parliament, the occupational loss of the Italian journalism system in recent years has been six times greater than that of the country, a decrease of 17-18 percent, with 3,000 less employed, pre-pensioned, retired, explosion of the use of social shock absorbers (some to 200 percent). The recent contributory reductions have fortunately allowed a few hundred recruitments, but they simply slow down the negative trend, without reversing it. When companies are in difficulty in a crucial sector such as the press, which is one of the bastions of freedom of expression in democracy, it is right that policy should deal with it: safeguarding them means protecting journalists and polygraphs who risk losing their jobs. The companies we are talking about are not just any companies: their lives or their deaths are, in a sense, the concept of democracy. This means, in practice, that the existence or non-existence of an enterprise that issues a newspaper means that a voice goes out and that in some parts of the country there is a lack of an opinion or only one. Today we live in a context in which information about what is happening in the world is always present: Internet, television and so on. On what happens geographically in our home, instead, in smaller realities, there is a clear suffering. I repeat, therefore, that the role of the local newspapers, which this reform aims to consolidate, is fundamental to ensuring pluralism of information. The text under consideration seeks to strengthen a capacity in the public to intervene by identifying resources and at the same time ensuring that these resources, in order to be spent effectively, can really reach those who do important work and have tried to improve the criteria of delegation on the allocation of funds: we talk about transparency, that is, the real existence of the newspapers, the number of copies sold, the ability to collect resources, which are useful measuring elements to confirm the need to use public resources. The publisher, however, is first of all an entrepreneur and as such must necessarily operate on the basis of reliable forecasting plans and the contribution to publishing is an essential part of this plan (we have discussed this for a long time in the Commission). If so, the grant of the aid cannot be a discretionary and uncertain event. It must be allowed to the publisher to know from the beginning what is the amount of the contribution that he can obtain and, therefore, comply with the conditions laid down by law; it should be constituted a real subjective right, a right that existed until Minister Tremonti had it removed, because of the spending review and the difficulties of the state budget, but whose cancellation has put in very serious difficulty the publishing companies, unable even to draft their own budgets and to plan hirings for a fixed or indefinite time. The reform on this point remains, unfortunately, vague, with the provision of contributions taking place in an effective time frame. This expression can reassure, but it remains clearly ambiguous and does not correspond to the need that the entrepreneur publisher has to rely on certain times for delivery. In addition, linking contributions to publishing exclusively to sales and setting a ceiling of no more than 50% of revenues (allowing the current and future government only the possibility to reduce it), without distinguishing between local and national newspapers, means penalising local and minority newspapers compared to the national press. After all, as I have already pointed out, the contribution is fundamental to the weaker publishing because it is local and therefore inherent in basins with very small potential users. The Information Plurality Fund is made up of everything that was already spent on publishing today: part of the capital gains of the RAI canon, plus part of a new one called solidarity contribution and that comes from the great advertising dealers, of which a small part (0.1%) will go to this fund. However, in all respects, this is an increase in direct taxation and there is a disparity in the treatment of operators in the advertising sector which is likely to be detrimental to the principle of equality. One very positive point, however, is the attempt to rationalise and support the sales network, in the relationship between newsstands and distributors. Newspapers really have to get to all citizens, so let's talk about the whole supply chain. This is a very positive step compared to a critical one that had been neglected for too long and that this reform instead considers. One of the amendments we have tabled concerns the scientific journals, which are excluded from the contributions. The reality of scientific journals is that the economic constraints experienced by universities no longer allow departments to subscribe to subscriptions. As a result, scientific journals go forward on the basis of pure voluntarism and many of them are forced to stop publishing. It is - if the text is not corrected - a dry loss for the cultural dimension of our country, to which it could be obvious with very limited resources. The other point on which much has been discussed is the reduction of members of the National Council of the Order of Journalists. I think it is a good thing that we are moving towards strengthening the role and authority of the Council. The text that came out of the Chamber reduced it too drastically, preventing real representation of all regional bodies and a fair balance between the delegations of professionals and advertisers. Having reported the number of members above the level of 60, as we did in the first Commission in the Senate, I think it can be considered a good compromise and a good viatic for the functionality of the National Council of the Order of Journalists. Another point: access to public contributions will go from the necessary online placement of the magazine; it will be a conditioning element. This will certainly create some problems for the small local warheads, but I realize that this is an almost inevitable passage. However, it would be a mistake to say that the paper no longer exists, because there are experiences in the United States of a return to paper, especially for local and neighborhood newspapers. Therefore, the card should not be considered a completely outdated instrument, since the synergy with the online for the time being has not produced satisfactory results from the economic point of view even for the great national newspapers. Last consideration: I think it is right to stress the incongruity of a legislative process that, born under the drive of a request for the abolition of tout court of the Order of Journalists, ends with a corporate attack such as the provision of criminal sanctions for the abuse of the profession. I recall that some attempts to charge the crime referred to in Article 348 of the Criminal Code (abuse of a profession) to non-registered journalists were made in the 1960s, but they were concluded by a judgment of the Court of Cassation of 1971 which stressed the difficulty of applying the indictment compared to an activity that is however marked by the principle of freedom of expression of thought. Since then, there has been no evidence of other proceedings or other judgments in the register of criminal proceedings against abusive journalists. This, I believe, is the overall picture of the reform. In our opinion, the plant that came out of the First Senate Commission goes in the right direction and I therefore hope that, once the second reading in the Senate has been completed, the House will be able to approve it definitively in September, as it will still represent a breath of oxygen for many small local publishing companies which, I repeat, represent an added value for the pluralism of information. [[Applause from the AL-A and FI-PdL XVIIe groups of Senator Cociancich.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u241	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u242	Madam President, I would like to start with Mr Mazzoni's speech, which I appreciated, which ended by talking about the pluralism of information, which I believe should be of interest to everyone. Frankly, I think there are a lot of reasons to worry. I'll start from one point. I wanted to leave differently, but I want to make a first comment on the blank delegations that this House decides to give to the government. I think it is unacceptable: there are so many, there are so many, they are vast and we do not know where they will take us. I would not like to see what is happening for example for RAI, because one cannot forget, when it comes to information, what is happening, even in these days, with respect to the public information service, which should be a plural service that gives voice to everyone. We want to remember not the controversy, but the considerations and data that have been given to us, not the biased ones, for example with regard to the referendum. On the referendum the future of this country is being built, on a wrong reform, wanted by about 30% of Italian voters, with 70% that is against. The latest data on television presences remind us how those who lean for the yes, which represents 30% of the Italians, today disproportionately occupies the television screens, occupies the public newspapers, occupies the public channels, the broadcasts, the news, while those who represent 70% of the Italians are seen much less represented. And again, if we look at the presence of the various parties and political groups in television broadcasts, the data is terrifying. I say this with a very strong term, which I do not use at random, but I use voluntarily: terrifying. Is this the free information the government wants? I am not only talking about our Group of Forza Italia, but also about the League and the 5 Star Movement, considering that the political positions between us in the center-right and the 5 Star Movement are profoundly different. The representatives of Forza Italia and the League participate in television broadcasts with much lower percentages than those of the party of the President of the Council, as well as secretary of the Democratic Party, which occupies public television and thus occupies the possibility of affecting what the Italians think. Well, this provision should start from here. I wonder how the majority of my colleagues can vote on all these blank delegations to the government. Ever since the President-in-Office of the Council was abusing at Palazzo Chigi, we have been witnessing the government's white delegations: he is telling us that Parliament does not count. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that passes through the Senate, because in the first speech he told us that he would end it. The mechanism of the counterweights, the democratic rules and the discussion do not like the former mayor of Florence (in fact, the mayor of Florence, because there he was elected, while the Italians did not elect him Premier). Let us then close the Senate, let us speak little on television and today let us also take all the delegations, in white, absolutely undefined, as regards a strategic sector of our country for freedom and democracy: publishing. We need to talk about freedom of the press here. I do not want to dwell on the open question of the Order of Journalists; colleagues have mentioned it before and it seems to me to be important and fundamental. Fortunately, we were able to make a contribution there in increasing the number of members of the Order's National Council. You wanted to reduce it, but in the House we increased it; fortunately there we were able to engrave. You make us affect what you think is absolutely irrelevant, but you don't make us contribute. Ladies and gentlemen, you must not rejoice at the fact that the opposition cannot make contributions on such important matters; you cannot give them either, because the white delegations to the government I was talking about earlier make it possible for you, too, to influence them. It is not only this part of the hemicycle that cannot influence it, but you too can influence it: it is the ridicule of Parliament. This makes me think because I have the clear impression that even on publishing you want to make a concentration of power: we decide everything at Palazzo Chigi. Meanwhile the sector is in crisis: see what is happening in the newspapers. Everything that is happening is not only due to the market break-in, as authoritative colleagues previously recalled, of online newspapers. Look at the new aggregation "La Stampa"-"La Repubblica": they do it because the newspapers are in trouble. When the newspapers are in trouble and shut down, part of democracy is lost. I remind everyone that this year we lost four more positions in the world ranking on freedom of the press: we went from 73° to 77° place. I remember what the left said when the Berlusconi government was there and the data were better than these: the scandal was screaming, today absolute silence. Of course, for some, democracy goes in an alternate direction. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] If the problem concerns the left, you have to keep quiet, if it concerns the right centre, you scream, you go to the square and you make roundabouts. I honestly believe that good taste and the dignity of common sense are needed in this House, first of all, where we represent the Italians. But I really wonder why we don't ask ourselves a few questions. The crisis in the sector means job losses, not just freedom of the press and democracy. I understand the abusive Premier wants a domesticated press. These days are not the polemics but the considerations from many sides, including parts of the Democratic Party, also of the Secretary President of the Council (party secretary who forgets to be President of the Council) who say that now on television there will be a clean sweep of dissent. Do you like the idea of returning to Russia in the past? There was so much hope that he had taken a step forward and instead it is not so, it is just the old methods: we must control everything. Anyway, I was saying that the crisis in the sector doesn't just worry me about freedom, it worries me about the people who work. But the government has a brilliant idea: I add a jump that will be only 0.1 percent; but 0.1 percent today and 0.1 percent tomorrow, in the end taxes continue to increase. But those who have thought of this fund that is called solidarity think of using nice words like "solidarity" that reminds me of the social sector, families with economic difficulties, families with people with disabilities; instead, no, it is a further hidden leap, still a 0.1 percent more, yesterday it was 2% more and so on the taxes increase. No one thought to check if the advertising revenue decreased or increased, so the RAI has the fee. On the other hand, the newspapers that are free press whether they are on the right or on the left - because there is some for everyone here - I must be able to control them and I must be able to decide who I give the contributions to. Among other things, I think we all read local newspapers. I wonder, and I am waiting for an answer in this respect because it seems to me that this is the case, how much will the small local newspapers be penalized? It is true that you, as far as federalism is concerned, are for absolute centralism, the democratic one, because the constitutional reforms you have approved show that everything must be concentrated, possibly at Palazzo Chigi; On the contrary, if Renzi goes to Palazzo Chigi and a little 'in the headquarters of the PD, he probably would do more willingly the secretary of the PD and would do everything in that office. So there will also be a penalty for local newspapers because they will always be favored by national newspapers of course. Once again it seems to me then to understand (in this case too Palazzo Chigi will decide among other things) that a great reform has been announced, which we must approve naturally in haste and fury. I wonder why the representatives of the majority are not speaking today. If this reform is important I would like to hear their authoritative voices because I recognise that good people sit in all political forces. But don't talk today. This reform is so important that I understand that the president of the Order of Journalists does not want it, does not approve it, journalists do not approve it, those who work in this field do not want it: nobody wants it, you only want it, you do not want it either, they impose it on you from Palazzo Chigi because it is now evident, for the speech of the famous delegations that you pass in white to the Government, that your voice is not heard. I am sorry for you, my colleagues in the majority, because I deeply appreciate you, but I do not understand why you are silent. I don't know why you don't talk. If you remain silent for dignity you have all my esteem and consideration. Shut up because they do everything at Palazzo Chigi. This senate has to close. Then, even in the Chamber of Deputies, only the Leaders will speak. Renzi will be happy and the abusive Premier will do whatever he wants. It's about publishing and freedom of the press. Once again, we are talking about a great reform, but in reality there are many announcements and few substantive things. The only substantial thing I see is a grasp of power and power of the kind: here I command. This is why the Forza Italia Group has tried to work and improve this reform. Shall we call her that? It is a measure that you make us approve in haste and fury. We can't hear your voice. I thought and I think we want a Italy that is profoundly different from this one. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u243	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u244	Madam President, this measure is certainly awaited above all by those who guarantee pluralism of information in this country. It is therefore expected by journalists, by the vast majority of publishing and, in particular, by a publishing industry that is present in the territories, a small publishing industry that guarantees, through its action, a higher level of our democracy and the greater pluralism that can be found in a democratic dimension such as ours and the European one. I would like to remind all of us that at this moment there are places where journalists are persecuted for their opinions and for the way in which they also represent the opinions of others. It cannot go unnoticed that, at the borders of Europe, there are countries that have not waited for attempts at coups d'état to silence the information and those who make it hit the journalists in ways that reach the deprivation of their freedom and life. (17.38) (URAS followed). Therefore, pluralism is based on the protection and guarantees of the free exercise of the journalistic profession. Mainly it rests on this. It reminds us precisely of Article 21 of the Constitution. This measure is embedded in this idea and in a national situation of deep crisis in the economy and also in sectors such as publishing, which undergo profound transformations also for reasons of technological innovation. I think it is absolutely important that we set up a fund that must be fed constantly and properly to support all the publishing, the one that has a national dimension but also the one that lives in the suburbs, that uses printed paper but also other forms of communication, that of radio and television also local and regional. The latter, in fact, play an absolutely indispensable role of information in the local area, but, I will say more, they allow a representation of the highly articulated national political situation even to forces that do not have a national dimension. I am thinking of my region, in which strongly autonomous and independent identity movements exist and can express and manifest in a more accomplished way their political position because there are subjects of communication able to receive them, to bounce them and to represent them outside. This also guarantees the presence, political representation and acquisition of spaces within the institutions, at least in regional and local ones. The measure in question is therefore of this nature. I think that, like everything we do and do, it can be improved. I have to say that the only flaw that does not have is what other political forces have identified as a sin of origin, namely the fact that it was the product of parliamentary collaboration between the Democratic Party and the Left Ecology and Freedom. Perhaps this is the best merit, and perhaps this is a ground that should also be more experienced. I believe, in fact, that the construction of a more robust democratic and progressive area can represent for this country the necessary and perhaps even the most useful choice, rather than the experimentation of abnormal alliances and a little acrobatic relationships, which have also manifested themselves in this legislature and which still manifest themselves, exist, produce effects and manage a government. The limit indicated, therefore, is a value for me and it is an interesting terrain that still needs to be investigated. This measure presents some very interesting aspects and, in my opinion, in the examination here in the Senate was improved compared to what we had acquired from the House. This applies, first of all, to the extent of the contribution and the manner in which it is made. The publishing industry, especially the one that gathers around the great centres of cultural presence, work and cooperation, has come to ask attention from this point of view and has been granted the possibility of the division of the contribution between anticipation and balance to 50%: it is an absolutely positive result, which responds to a question that is fair and that saves that economic reality on which so many situations develop, also professional and human, that guarantee employment, improving the condition of serenity of those who work in journalistic activity. Journalists, in fact, must also be defended from this point of view, that is, from the point of view of wages: their freedom to render the information service goes also through greater independence, which is affirmed with certain guarantees of their professional, occupational and social security status. In this respect too, the intervention made in the field of social security should be appreciated. It is true that, in some ways, it introduces stricter elements that lead the process of unification of social security treatment of all categories; but it is also true that there is a sensitivity to face crisis situations and to promote the solution, identifying faster and guaranteed modalities in terms of early retirement and overcoming the conditions of difficulty in crisis situations and restructuring. So this is an improvementable measure. There will be other occasions on which we can discuss this subject, but it is certainly a good measure, expected and which I hope the House will approve definitively and quickly, without making any further changes to the text that came out of the Senate. It is a measure that takes a step forward in the situation of national publishing and guarantees to some extent even more the journalistic professions and journalists. In this country, where that kind of profession is rightly protected because our country is a democratic country, I would like to remind you of other situations that arise throughout the southern shore of the Mediterranean and the Middle East; I would like to think of situations that occur in the Far East; I would like to think of situations that we have often seen in Latin America; I would like to think of the North of Europe towards the East, where there have been situations in which information has been affected in its freedom by hitting journalism. On the other hand, we are concerned with giving at least a minimum guarantee and we are intervening on the Order of Journalists in order to strengthen the function of the professional journalist, who is also responsible for the measure, in which it is also provided for the protection of those who carry out the activity in a more free way, introducing, for example, some parameters relating to fair compensation, something on which it is worth reasoning even further. In fact, we have witnessed an operation in which the most important newspapers both local and national and agencies have abused the contribution of journalists publicists in order to put in crisis, because some categories of publishers are not purely publishers, but have other interests to support, defend and promote. In this operation they tried to strike at professional journalism and the protection that associations, the press federation rather than the Order of Journalists give to that kind of profession in this respect. It is also there that freedom of information is undermined, and therefore also the value of the constitutional principle to which we referred, which is that of Article 21 of the Constitution. That is why, Madam President, we, and Mrs De Petris in particular, have worked in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for this draft law to be successful and we are happy and satisfied in a large part of the result we have achieved. We would have liked and would like the Government and the relative majority party to keep this same profile also for other events and also for the RAI - Italian Radio Television, the one we look carefully, so that it is protected from the point of view of pluralism of information and guarantees to citizens to have a product of information and show as respectful as possible of the reality of the country. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u245	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u246	Mr President, I share the views of Senator Uras on the importance of the measure, which calls into question absolutely fundamental rights, both individual and collective, and which has generated deep expectations in its recipients. I say in advance, as a premise, that the work we have done together in the Commission has not satisfied us. We had other requests which we consider to be fundamental, which will be debated in the course of the examination of the amendments. In the Commission, in the true respect of the right of information (to inform, inform and be informed) thanks to the President, the always available competence, professionalism and preparation of the rapporteur and a powerful hearing activity, we have had the opportunity to unravel the subject, which is complex and composed. This is the first critical element that I put to your attention: to the attention of the rapporteur, first of all, and of the Government. I apologise if I forgot to mention the Government that has always been present and available and, as far as it could, everyone obviously in the exercise of their roles and competences, has accepted, even if in a minimal part (we now trust in the work in this House) our demands. I said that the comparison was important because this is a monster regulation, not because it is monstrous to the legislator, but because it is monstrous to the issues involved and the potential area of application. Here we are not only talking about support for publishing, which is magna pars of the measure in question, not only about the pension treatment of journalists and not only about the discipline of the National Council of the Order of Journalists. These arguments could be the subject of a sonship and gemmation of other measures (and they will be, because the delegations contained in the draft law under consideration are numerous, as always, and we will also entertain them). We would have liked to have been part of this second path as well and not completely entrust to the Government the discussion of issues that we consider to be parliamentary and not yet governmental. We would like to discuss this, to be able to look at ourselves and to deal with issues which, in our opinion, are debated much more extensively and comprehensively in a Parliamentary Assembly than in a Council of Ministers or in a confrontation between different ministerial or bureaucratic-ministerial sensitivities. As I said, the themes are extraordinarily topical and are, unfortunately, intertwined with the most burning news. The first issue concerns the very rapid change - I would say lightning - of information. By now the information systems and models - we can also call them format, even if I do not love this syntactic esterophilia - are changing with an extraordinary speed and this makes our discipline of a crystalline delicacy, understood as the fragility of the crystal. Unfortunately, this discipline is not as crystalline and does not have the transparency of the crystal: as far as we are concerned, it is a bit opaque. Themes such as intermediateity, crossmediacy and multimedia are now the daily bread not only of the telecommunications sector (i.e. of cross-communication television with other forms of Internet communication), but also of printed paper. The previous speakers have rightly pointed out that it is now very difficult to establish dividing lines between the various information sectors, which are the immediate and most natural expression of Article 21 of the Constitution. I said this before: to inform, to inform and to be informed. Mr Mazzoni has rightly pointed out that there has been a resumption of the paper. In the United States - it is true - the paper has started to grow again, but because it is supported by a powerful Internet platform, which, unlike what happened in other systems like ours, has managed intelligently not to be vampirized by Internet communication, which is necessarily faster, more updated and immediate in providing information and often burns the paperhead of the next day. All these are the presuppositions and criteria of an objective reality, with which anyone who wants to make contributions to publishing must be compared. I've seen that there are petitions at the end of the draft law. We rarely meet with this instrument of direct democracy, but there are citizens who ask us to do things and tell us that Parliament is not sensitive to certain demands, even if it does not oblige us to deal with this matter: it is an institution of direct democracy which, unlike the popular legislative initiative, does not require Parliament to deal with this matter, but still represents an indicator. Many of these petitions call for the abolition of public funding for publishing. Therefore, I understand the sensitivity of those who govern with respect to certain instances and I also understand and urge the need to mediate these instances, which are very beautiful when they are declared, but they are of very difficult realization, because both as legislators and even more so by exercising a majority of government protempore, it is necessary to be able to mediate between opposing interests. Unfortunately, the right to information is not a flower that flourishes and grows spontaneously, but it must be fed, watered, protected, as well as certain publishing companies, that when we talk about pluralism of information we must have well in mind, that they need to be protected, using the conditions of fairness and fairness of their protection. We know that the crisis bites not only the operators of the sector, but also the providers of public contributions, that is to say all of us, who make public contributions, using what the citizens give us and, therefore, we need to be more careful. However, we must not forget that this is a matter in which it is essential to always strike a balance between those who have the right and duty to carry out information activities, at national and local level, and the very right and duty-free demands, typical of the liberal culture we share, of the free market and of the rules, which naturally develop an activity in the market. Therefore, we often believe that the arrangements of this rule have not achieved this balance and our thoughts have been expressed in our amendments, which we will then be presenting. The rapporteur, who is always available, has tried to meet our needs, but has not met them. There have been de minimis amendments to the text, which we can see. As you know, the text we have in circulation contains the amendments. Apart from the amendments made at the rapporteur's initiative or on the basis of the rapporteur's requests, the modified text is so little significant that we do not lose hope that we have not finished amending the text and that the rapporteur will still be sensitive, even in this House, to these requirements. I certainly do not want to be the one who, after wandring the government on his hands this morning, is too poetic and unpractical, but in this case the form is substance. They cannot leave themselves alone or prevent the making of budget plans to publishing companies, which represent, incarnate, they satisfy the local authorities which are fundamental for the protection of pluralism of information. Colleagues, you all know that the pluralism of information is not a word, but a path, which must be progressively protected, as the instruments or fundamental changes around us intervene in the world, which undermine the balance that the legislator has previously achieved. The Gasparri Act has rightly been mentioned, but Mr Gasparri, who will speak after me, will be able to speak about it for himself. Of course, the balance must be updated. In my opinion, this rule is too ambitious in wanting to regulate too much and saying too little, in not taking into account the needs of those categories that are waiting to be met, but not in this way. Satisfaction must be found not only in the titles, but also in the contents. I am glad that the number of members of the National Council of the Order of Journalists has increased. I belong to a professional order which - it is true - has fewer components, but also fewer powers, fewer competences, fewer roles to be played, fewer internal delegations and fewer burdens to be faced and to be met. In order to make this long history something short, we appreciate the effort, but we hope that in the examination, discussion and vote on the amendments, the Government and the rapporteur will still try to meet these needs, which are not ours but of all those who expect something from this law. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u247	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u248	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, can a government like this, which has snatched the RAI with an inverceconda law, which gives governance and leadership directly to the Government, make a good law on publishing? The answer is no, it's obvious. What you call pluralistic information is actually, for decades, a piecemeal information, divided by currents. Of course, you used to do it with the Cencelli manual and, therefore, there was perhaps a minimal real democratic and pluralistic representation of the various voices of this society and of Italian politics. Not today. Today came a gentleman who finishes a path that was made by... VOICES FROM THE LNP-AUT GROUP. The government is missing! AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am told that the Government is not present. Will he be at RAI? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's present, and he's covered by a senator. He's sitting in the front row. AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am advised that you may be making the TG1 headlines! Maybe Orpheus isn't servile enough? No, that's impossible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, undersecretary Pizzetti isn't exactly the person to throw himself at. AIROLA (M5S). Perhaps this process started twenty years ago, of dismantling and concentrating the power of information in the hands of a few, started when, with Berlusconi, a gentleman who had three televisions appeared on the scene. Unheard of! A President of the Council. All the Europe that was on us. I remember that there was still a front of counter-information, or pluralistic information, which worked to counter the political vision of the House of Liberties. In fact, he often climbed the barricades. We saw you on the barricades defending Italian information against a conflict of interests never seen. Today we have reached the perfection of this media regime, with a Renzi who took everything, coming to decay opposites (as long as opposites were), with a single broad understanding, in a deafening and total silence of all the media. Therefore, we have an editorial fabric that reflects this non-plurality, with concentrations in the hands of some publishers who have nothing pure: from Caltagirone to De Benedetti to Agnelli, who is defiling. On this fabric operates a caste of journalists who is the true executor of political orders and, to come down, a precarious of journalists who have to work paid in black, or with VAT matches, anticipating expenses and being paid in invoice, blackmailed and enslaved. Then we wonder what the point of an injection of resources on such a rotten tissue is. What's the point of favoring gangrene? But it's obvious. It is the amputation of the conscience of citizens and, above all, of their knowledge. Because this indecent policy now survives exclusively in symbiosis with a journalistic caste; and I regret to use this term because I insult those who make those few islands of journalism and those autonomous publishers that are still there and, even with a difficult survival, exist. Instead, we see a total flattening of information. As my colleague said, we are very opposed to public funding for publishing, as we are to party funding. The issues go hand in hand. However, we wanted to table amendments to this text and we wanted to try to make proposals to you. Because from your statements (as long as it does not prove that the level of hypocrisy is now unbearable), you have also often challenged in the Supervisory Committee the very specific stances: I am referring, for example, to the superstips of RAI managers and managers. There were sessions in which there was a general indignation because Dall'Orto, the gentleman who Renzi put there, took 650,000 euros and distributed salaries over 240,000 euros (which is the maximum salary for those who work in a public company or participated). Well, by circumventing this rule by issuing bonds, you've all been outraged. And we have tabled an amendment that restores the ceiling of EUR 240,000, so I would like to see your reaction when we vote on these proposals, because in that case we will measure what PD is, what NCD is, what is this majority and what is this Government. We are still talking about freedom of information. We give resources to warheads who maybe don't pay the collaborators, the journalists, who maybe exploit them, move them, enslave them. We said before that freedom of information also passes through the independence and fair compensation of journalists (which is not what we have heard of). If I am constantly blackmailed I will not be free and I will not have my autonomy; for this reason we have tabled another amendment that proposes not to give money to those who have union problems, mobbies, does not pay the collaborators and does not respect contracts. I would also like to say a banality: the contribution should be directly proportional to the copies actually sold and not to the newspapers that printed and distributed on trains to friends, etc. We were talking about fair compensation for journalists because this is an important aspect, since we are seeing characters who make big trips and are paid maybe 400,000 euros a year (these are fairly common figures in the sector), while, like, we have journalists who work without time limits, with hunger wages and anticipating expenses: imagine a journalist who now has to go to do a service in Turkey and you have to pay for the trip, the hotel, maybe even the medical care (because Turkey may not be a quiet scene), then come home, do the bill and insert the expenses. This may be in front of a gentleman who earns 250,000-300,000 euros, put there by politics. Let's not talk about the Order of Journalists. You know very well what we think about authority and organs. Of course, in a perfect world there could be an authority that controls communication, but as long as we have Cardani, a little man who comes to the RAI Supervisory Committee and insults us, gentlemen, I don't want the authorities if they are this stuff here; if they are the product of an infiltration even in that ten-year case: it's a partition of politics also on authority. Stop, you are ashamed, you are beyond shame! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's talk about the Order of Journalists. We said that the professional orders are armchairs, they are tokens, an incredible number of armchairs evidently to arrange friends, but also to exercise control. We have 60 members, of whom we propose a cut of at least 30, but we would abolish it, because we are against it and we have also tabled amendments that are totally deleted. However, I would like to try to give you some ideas, because it is my job, since I am still here perhaps for a year or two - we do not know - and I have to do this job. However, consider that today I do so in the extreme awareness that you will never give up control over information, because doing so for you means final political death. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They're gonna bury you and they're already doing it, despite attempts. Now in RAI these three truly ridiculous appointments have emerged. After a year of trying to talk about freedom of information, we see Orfeo confirmed at TG1, he who has arrived since 2011, so he has passed Monti, Letta and remains with Renzi unharmed; he is very good at his work, it is obviously unbeatable, so much so that they confirm it. Then they put the Colucci, who probably pays for a wide-ranging exchange, a Nazarene 2.0; it will probably be like the journalist D'Angelis, the one of Unit 2.0, the package you sell for journalism. Then at TG3 - which could be a channel on which to start a policy (at least with Dall'Orto we hoped, we hoped) and a slightly more independent choice - they put Mazza. You put it there, we didn't choose it: it chooses it from the Garden based on what Renzi says, after he took a general scolding in the RAI Supervisory Committee the other day just for the superstips. You're ridiculous. Now vote for this stuff here, if you have the courage. Let's see if you really have any dignity. For my part - you know - I don't give it to you, not even the least, but you can always amaze me. Maybe this time you can. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u249	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u250	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, other Members of my Group have already spoken on a number of points in this draft law, expressing a critical assessment. We took part in the debate in the Commission in a responsible and constructive spirit, although we did not agree with the wording of the measure in many respects. I'll come back to a couple of things. There are so many of them concerning funding for publishing, the single fund that is being set up, the frankly questionable criteria that, in my opinion, do not guarantee that support for innovation and employment in the information world. Fundamental issues are being evaded. Today we are talking about the legislation on publishing, but in reality we should ask ourselves what happens in the field of information, in which the crisis, in particular of newspapers, comes from the fact that on the network is now free of charge, almost everything: news, information, images, videos. The newspapers themselves, paradoxically, compete with themselves, modernising and making the various sites more and more efficient. True, they try to charge some services and articles, but what people find free of charge satisfies more than abundantly the demand for knowledge and knowledge. Then there is, of course, free television, which has multiplied thanks to the reforms we have made. How much criticism to digital terrestrial and today, even if one does not have satellite television or a subscription to pay television, has hundreds of channels and has a wide choice because, thanks to the innovations and reforms that has made the centerright, the pluralism and the offer has increased. All this determines, of course, like all the processes of modernization, positivity and negativity, so the classic newspaper, a fundamental form of knowledge and deepening, the paper that colleagues used to talk about, has a difficulty. Legislative interventions therefore seek to facilitate classical publishing and, of course, online parts, which often partially or even totally replace paper information, as there are newspapers that have completely transferred or are born directly on the web. The law under consideration is not only concerned with these matters and neglects many of them. There is, for example, an unsolved problem: taxation of large network operators, over the top. This issue occasionally emerges and then disappears and we will have to face it. We're in a strange world. In this House too, we have recently (and will be back) dealt with the beaches and the street vendors. You will say: what does the beaches have to do with publishing? We are in a European construction that claims to race for a poor guy who has to get up at 4 a.m. to sell shoes in the traveling market or for what rent umbrellas and deck chairs. A global, European, international race must be held, that site must be contestable by anyone. After that, in the field of publishing there are all the great operators, the various Google, Amazon and the like, of the real potentates who decide what they sell and what not, because now the online commerce grows. They have the profile of each of us: they know what we read and what we possibly buy. They are databases that know better than the registry or a police force the propensions, the habits, the readings, the curiosities, in practice the opinions of each of us. There the tax languishes and so we have realities... Then we make agreements, also Renzi made agreements, then we found that the great international society, the start-ups he did in Naples then provided free work, not jobs. So I believe that we will have to deal with this sooner or later, not with direct agreements. FIEG also made a deal with some major network operators and had some money. But we must put everyone on a level playing field, because, if we have to make those who sell shoes a European race and those who give us information or sell products, we do not charge them any tax, in the face of gigantic gains, things cannot work. So this bill eludes these themes. It then introduces two issues: a reform of the Order of Journalists and a piece of RAI stage reform. As for the Order of Journalists, I defend him. The professional orders are praised, criticized, we add some, we would like to delete others. I defend the professional orders and I am happy - I say it incidentally - that a few minutes ago the social security funds of the professional orders have escaped yet another blackmail of the Renzi Government [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Volpi]] , who had called the professional offices of journalists, accountants and lawyers, to tell them to invest in Monte Paschi di Siena. It's funny. Imagine if one of you, my fellow legislators, would go into the bank and the agent would say, ==References====External links==* Official website One would answer him wrong and change banks [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] , or he would say: "Guardi, rather I would buy the actions of the Senate, if they existed, that it is a body also this precarious, but perhaps at least the property is better placed than the Mount of the Paschi". The professional coffers have refused, because they must defend the contribution payments Among other things, the social security agency of the Order of Journalists, to which I belong, has already had to suffer waste from various characters, we will see whether they are guilty or not. Some are called the Magnoni brothers. So my organization, the INPGI, could also welcome them; those are called Magnoni and what do they do? I don't know. They had a mission in their last name. And then we must also defend the pension paid and the contributions of professionals. Renzi had said: "Give us 500 million for the Mount of the Paschi". They said no. Then it would be better if the social security agencies also avoided the Magnoni brothers, as well as the Mount of the Paschi, and that they invested well, because that is the money of their associates who pay the contributions. Then you want to do this reform. We have changed a few things in the Commission. It was said that the Council of the Order, today plethora with 160-170 people, must be made up of 36 people. I regret one thing and thank Senator Finocchiaro, as President of the 1st Commission, for correcting an approach that I did not understand where it was born. In fact, only a few regional orders had been audited, perhaps those who had asked for it; then we have expanded to all. [[Comments of Senator Finocchiaro.]] Eh, I know, President Finocchiaro, however, if you hear the regional orders of journalists, it is then strange to hear that of Lombardy and not hear that of another Region (perhaps some were in favour of a certain plant and others were not). Then we audited them all, in a federalist logic and respect for the territory. The Order of Journalists has been reformed for a long time. It is now being delayed and with an amendment; that is a wrong way of doing it. We have agreed that the number must not be more than 36, I acknowledge that. We proposed 72, now it's 60. I also say that as a professional journalist, who passed the state exam alas a long time ago. We are creating a system whereby professionals, who are a minority of the Order, will express two thirds of the elected and publicists, who are many... Some may not be practitioners of the profession as a primary fact; but there are many advertisers who do the work of professional journalists in the newspapers, because publishers exploit them, publishers underpay them, publishers make them work in the front line. But we do a reform so professional journalists... I speak against my belonging, because I am a professional, while I think that undersecretary Giacomelli, also a journalist, is a publicist. Paradoxically, I defend the reasons of the publicists, while the government gives professionals the power to express, being a minority, the two-thirds of the elected. This is wrong and undemocratic. After that we at least brought the number to 60 and introduced the linguistic minorities. I don't resent minority languages and respect them. However, it is not clear why linguistic minorities should have the seats secured in the National Council of the Order of Journalists and should not at this point have them in the other professions. Notaries who practice in Bolzano must be bilingual, otherwise they cannot be a notary. What do they do, a client comes in and they don't understand each other? Of course, they're there and they have to operate with a driver's license, with a license; otherwise they can't do it. Then there is also this contradiction. I believe, in essence, that this reform is badly done. As far as RAI is concerned, we have included an amendment to Article 6 which introduces a legal procedure to renew the Convention. It is not the renewal of the Convention but only a document specifying how the Convention between the RAI and the State is renewed. In fact, it is also said that RAI will run the public service. In the Commission I have also specified that this last step is quite logical, I say it from the centre-right benches. I've never been in favor of the race. We do it, according to Europe, for those who sell shoes at four in the morning, for the markets, which is a bit absurd, or for the beaches and we do not do it for the canon because who would participate? The RAI itself. Then, if the main private operator participated, it would appear to be a conflict of interest. Imagine if Mediaset participated in the contest of the canon, guaranteed the benefits (news, regional information, weather forecast, religious information, information for minorities and anything else) and won the race and therefore also the canon. I wonder what would happen. Other broadcasters or foreign stockholders, and frankly you don't understand why they should take the fee, or they don't even have enough coverage for television lighting. So it is right, I repeat, that the public service should do so by RAI, but it must do so, undersecretary Giacomelli, a pluralist RAI. You have done a step-by-step reform of the RAI: here you write Article 6, but when you did the legend that gives all the powers to the Director-General you violated the Constitution and the judgments of the Constitutional Court because the RAI must be an expression of Parliament and pluralism. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We saw what it was for: perhaps the heterogenesis of the ends, undersecretary Giacomelli, was not what she wanted. Today we have a general manager who makes single-colored appointments. Today Fabio Martini on "La Stampa" - a qualified journalist and certainly not ascribable to the galaxy of the center-right, free but not of our part - said that we have never seen a monocolor government like that that that comes out of the nominations made in the networks and the nominations announced in the newspapers that should be discussed. This is what Fabio Martini says on "La Stampa". A monocolor Renzia to normalize everything in view of the referendum. That was why the legging was used to give the Director-General the power to make every appointment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] After that, in this staged reform, you predicted the compulsory fee in the bill for which before the fee was compulsory to pay but it was not in the bill and therefore there was a certain evasion, justified or not. Now it's in the bill, everyone has to pay with the electric bill the fee, and we'll pay the monocolor Renzia of the director-general unable and even the newspaper "La Stampa" writes it. In addition, "La Stampa" now marries "la Repubblica": will they respect the antitrust roofs in this supercartel? I don't think so. We contested this choice in due course. Now Article 6, you will say, typicalizes only the procedures for the convention but what do we do with the State-RAI convention if then - and I say so after defending the public service function of RAI - it is not the public service, but Renzi's private service? Renzi had said outside the RAI parties, he certainly said to Leopolda: outside the other parties from RAI to keep only his party current in RAI, not even his whole party! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] In fact, I have read some pluralistic statements and I have seen a director who was obviously not aligned with the new course; they replaced it with one who will be very good, I don't know him, but in the curriculum he has a quarrel with Giannini. Giannini is disliked to me too, but kicking him out because he's disliked Renzi made me like him! Look at how weird life is. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] And then, I believe that this measure should also introduce a wage ceiling. I also say this to you, President-in-Office of the Council: we have already approved a proposal for an opinion reworded by the rapporteur in the parliamentary supervisory committee a few months ago. Specifically on 11 November 2015 (so not a hundred years ago) the RAI Supervisory Parliamentary Committee unanimously approved (here are other colleagues who are part of the Commission) an opinion in which it is said that in relation to the provision that it is proposed to introduce to paragraph 3 of Article 111, it is recommended that the statute of RAI sets out the provisions of article 13, paragraph 1 of the aforementioned decree-law that determines in euro 240,000 the maximum limit of the remuneration and salaries due respectively to directors with delegations and their employees. This is not a law, but an opinion. The Supervisory Committee should monitor and voted in November to respect that ceiling. I have tabled an amendment with Senator Bernini, which the whole Group has signed, to say that we are introducing the 240,000 euro ceiling into law. Field From the garden takes 650,000 to be the plotter on behalf of Renzi. Renzi could pay it directly with the IBAN code of Campo Dall'Orto. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] He says that it can be done because the RAI issued bonds and the public companies issuing bonds escape this duty of the roof, but our specific amendment that this can apply to companies that have a prevailing financial activity and for which issuing bonds and investing in the stock market is the primary vocation. RAI may accidentally issue bonds, but it produces information, culture and knowledge. Therefore, we have tabled an amendment which restricts the field of public companies that can exceed the ceiling of EUR 240,000. Campo Dall'Orto also lied to the Supervisory Committee because he told us that he didn't ask for anything and that as soon as he arrived at the RAI they offered him 650,000 euros, which he took. His predecessor Gubitosi, on the other hand, had adapted, with pain I imagine, to the reduction to 240,000 euros, with which we live. We who are the caste of castes and are reproached, wrongly or rightly, take less and we are certainly above the average of the Italian population and, therefore, we must self-limit ourselves and not feed ourselves. Even considering the lies of the Director-General of RAI because his predecessor had joined the EUR 240,000, we want the amendment to be taken into account. When we get there, I think we'll talk to a lot of people. There is the opinion of the Supervisory Committee. Colleagues who have tabled the amendments, I will give you copies because on the archives of parliamentary acts in the field of broadcasting I am given enough for custom and attention to the matter. To those who do not have it, we provide a photocopy of the opinion that we voted unanimously. It was the equivalent of the amendment that many of us have tabled. The opinion can be eluded and has been eluded; the amendment cannot be eluded. As for the artist there will be the exception. We're talking about executives and employees. If Raffaella Carrà - I quote a dated name - assumes it, she will become an employee. If it is an artist who makes seasonal performances, it will be the market that dictates the rules. This debate is important because the issue of fair pay, transparency and how RAI works is central. The fee is not very high as a tax: it is a hundred euros. Every time, however, statistical surveys are carried out, it is the most unpopular of leaps. People don't love him; they want him to disappear, but then there are balances, advertising, newspapers. I know the rules of the system and I understand. The canon, although there are higher taxes, is on the goiter. Mr President, can we say 'on the gozzo'? Senator D'Anna last week has innovated the language; instead, "gozzo" can be said. We will insist on these proposals. We do not appreciate the incidental way in which the reform of the Order of Journalists has been carried out. The prearranged auditions of some yes and others did not indicate what the saucer was. We appreciate - I say this because I have no hesitation - that there has been a bit of listening by changing the numbers from 36 to 60. We proposed 72. To answer those who say the numbers are pletoric, I would like to say that the State does not pay them the members of the National Council of the Order of Journalists. If today there are 170 and they will become 60 or if they had become 72, there would still have been half-life. The state doesn't pay them, let it be clear unlike us that, instead, we have to get half and shredded. Dear President, I would also like to thank you for your time-tolerance. The consideration of the merits of this measure will allow us to address many issues, including the modernisation of information and the tax impunity of the great giants of the net that plunder the resources of all, while the poor shoe or lifeguard we make the world race with the Chinese and the Americans as if it were a monopolist of the umbrella. The measure will also give us the opportunity to talk about RAI, about the reform to bits badly done, and I believe that someone has also regretted, because then, as I say, the field of the garden is full only of friends of the Ortolano Renzi, and this is not good. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u251	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u252	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating is intended to subsidise an economic sector like other measures to assist other sectors. The publishing sector, however, deserves particular support from the legislator for many years, because it guarantees one of the foundations of democracy that is free and pluralist information, where freedom is measured in the comparison of different guidelines, procedures and techniques, certainly not in the adherence of every head of the ideas that each of us can prefer. Supporting means correcting market mechanisms and correcting even the outcomes that the mere exercise of free competition can generate. This is a point that for some years now in other countries, further than we on this subject, both from a technological point of view, and from the point of view of order and business stories - I am referring to the United States of America - is a matter of in-depth discussion, because the media sector, especially in daily newspapers and generalist television, is facing a structural crisis, someone says epochal. I will remind this House that a few years ago the weekly 'The Economist' posed the problem of what would be the last newspaper to close in 2043. Given the progress of things, I fear that in Italy we will not have to wait until 2043 to see an even worse rise in the current crisis. However, this bill, which originates from a fair idea, has a development which, in my opinion, is far inferior to what should have been. It is proposed to be an orderly measure, but, in reality, it ends with the concentration of resources that are now dispersed and relocated to several ministries in the hands of a single lending body: the Presidency of the Council. The Presidency of the Council itself, through this draft law, invokes to itself all the powers in this matter. The rapporteur, Mr Cociancich, has done well to introduce an amendment which, at least, puts the criteria for granting subsidies to the strengthened opinion of the relevant parliamentary committees. However, this, in my opinion, is not enough, because the strengthened opinion counts, but, in the end, the message that comes is that the publishing groups in difficulty - be they the local televisions, the trend press, the cultural editorial initiatives, but - I add - also many of the great "normal" groups - will have to go to Palazzo Chigi with the hat in hand to ask for help. This, in my opinion, is not good; I will not be bored quoting the thought of a father of the Homeland, that is, Luigi Einaudi, about freedom of the press, but it is not a good day for democracy what a newspaper, in order to live in a context that is what we have indicated before, needs the discretionary benevolence of the prince. If subsidies are to be found, and I believe that they are inevitable in certain respects, they must be financed in a credible way - and I shall say something about this - and provided by the most automatic mechanisms possible, with a degree of discretion reduced to the minimum necessary. I would therefore like to make a few comments on the specific rules of this measure. It includes funding already decided on by previous rules of around 200 million, from 2016 and around 170 million for the next two years. Then he adds two sources of funding in a questionable way in my opinion. It says that up to 100 million can be fished by the extratragettito that will come from the RAI fee collected through the electricity bills. Why not put even a minimum where we talk about eventualities? Once again we leave the most total discretion even in determining the quantum. Secondly, it is invented - and some of my colleagues have mentioned this earlier - a contribution of solidarity on the part of the media advertising agencies, as if advertising has in itself some small sin to do with other sources of income in the publishing sector and therefore is called upon, and not other sources, to pay a contribution of solidarity; when we know that all sources of income have equal dignity from this point of view. It seems to me a remnant of ancient cultures, of a world from which I too come, that of the left, which have been surpassed for decades in their actuality. But the most striking thing about this rule is revenue. Those who propose it do not tell us how many money they think they get. I have done this exercise because it is easy to do: just take the budgets of the last three years of the societies called to make this contribution of solidarity and it turns out that, if it is okay, we are going to reach 1.5 million euros, but more likely to be less. We are talking about a nonsense, in order to do that one forgets to mention the largest operating company in the advertising sector that exists in the world, the second in Italy, which is called Google, which lives on advertising. Only that the bill from Dublin, and we forget it; and that is to make a regulation. So, almost, we consolidate this state of affairs. There are three other things - I would ask the Presidency for a little pardon - on which I would like to make a few quick comments. Let me turn to the first observation. While it is true that the entire publishing sector is in difficulty, I believe it is the task of a rule of this kind to guarantee that minimum support that, even in other sectors, is guaranteed to corporate restructuring, at least to those that have already been authorized to some extent by the same Government through the request for early retirement deposited with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. This is said to cost money. Of course, it costs money, but not so many and, however, you can go and affect that already financed mountain that I remembered at the beginning of the intervention. In this way the Presidency of the Council would have some less margin of discretion. Is it that bad? I'll move on to the second aspect. Advertising serves not only those who make it, publish it and broadcast it to have a source of revenue, but also advertisers to promote the sale of their products. The draft law under consideration states that the Presidency of the Council should consider some form of incentive for additional advertising compared to that done in recent times, because this would also benefit consumption trends and the economy as a whole. But why not indicate, how is it possible to do, how is it possible to give some certainty and objectives in this matter and put a figure in black and white that gives the idea of what we want to do? Once again, you prefer to leave all this to the discretion of the prince. I conclude with a remark on a completely marginal passage, which however indicates how many times, having to pass a rule that concentrates power in such a delicate matter in the hands of the Government, we want to pay a tribute to the public well-thinking and politically correct. I am referring - follow me well - to that short rule which excludes from subsidies those who publish advertising adverts detrimental to the image of the woman's body. Anyone who knows me knows how high my respect for women is and how I have shared all the battles that have been waged in this House and, before that, in the newspapers. I've been practicing these things in my life, and I haven't just talked about it. However, I invite you to make a brief reflection: why do we legislators think we are hitting harmful advertising images and not even - because we are - of videos, videos, photographs, texts and titles? This is quite a ridiculous thing. You hit a marginal thing like, for example, Oliviero Toscani, and you let go serenely the YouPorn site, which does not ask for contributions. Oliviero Toscani's advertising may also be published in the newspapers "Il manifesto" or "Avvenire". PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cows, I've given you four more minutes. Now I invite you to conclude. MUCCHETTI (PD). Yes, Mr. President. Who will be - then - the subject who will exclude from contributions? Palazzo Chigi? Are we reopening the censorship committee? In order to pay a contribution to the politically correct and make a badly constructed measure more digestible, we are going to introduce this rule that will have a single value, namely never to be applied.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u253	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u254	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u255	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u256	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the attention of this House for a moment. As all of you will have known, at last the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has completed its work and so now we have the opportunity, finally, to put into practice what we have been asking for for for days and days. We believe that the House must give a strong signal against a fact that is not even comparable, for example, to that of a former senator, such Dell'Utri, who in his pedigree had an accusation for external competition in a mob association. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, you must tell me your request on the order of business and not go into the matter. LUCIDES (M5S). My request is as follows: given the conclusion of the proceedings of the Assembly of the elections and parliamentary immunity, pursuant to Rule 56, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate - I am about to hand over the sheet with the eight signatures requested - I ask for the reversal of the discussion of the topics on the agenda and therefore the suspension of the examination of the measure, at this moment, to begin immediately the discussion on the report of the Junta which provides for the request for arrest for Senator Caridi, and at the end of this point to resume with the agenda as has been announced. That is my request: immediate suspension of the measure under consideration and immediate start of the debate on the report just made by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. [[Senator Buemi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u257	Senator Buemi, allow the presidency to respond. Senator Lucidi, please listen to me. What you are asking of me would be possible if we could amend our Rules of Procedure. What you are asking for would be a reversal of the discussion of the items on the agenda, because what you have asked for is already scheduled on the agenda. The reversal of items on the agenda can be asked either at the beginning of the sitting or when we move from one subject to another and not when we are halfway through a measure, as it is doing at the moment. So your request is rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u258	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u259	You have the right to do so. I would remind you that there are no replies to the Presidency's decisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u260	CRIMI (M5S). My reply is not a reply, Mr President, but there have been several examples, although obviously we do not have all the texts available... PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Crimes, it is 18.47: tomorrow morning at the beginning of the sitting you can legitimately make the same request. At the beginning of the sitting, and not when a subject is being discussed. CRIMI (M5S). There are great precedents in which, in the interval between the general discussion and the beginning of the vote on the amendments, at the request of the group leaders, probably the majority, thus supported by the Presidency, was given the consent to this reversal. I will find them before the end of the sitting and challenge your decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u261	I apply the Rules of Procedure and not political decisions and therefore proceed with the examination of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u262	Mr President, I would like to thank you and all the Members who have spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u263	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u264	Mr President, I could not depart from the line suggested by the rapporteur and therefore I also give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u265	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u266	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments Nos 1.21 and 1.53. Amendment 1.21 provides for the Support Fund to be fed, inter alia, with a percentage of the profits of advertising operators. In this respect, it should be noted that this is an objective increase in direct taxation and therefore a measure which is not in line with the needs expressed by several parties to reduce this type of taxation. The rule then introduces unequal treatment of operators in the advertising sector, which is likely to be detrimental to the principle of equality. With regard to amendment 1.53, it is a rule that gives discretionary powers to the Government in the distribution of the Fund and it is contrary to the need to recognise a subjective right to publishers and the need to ensure the independence of information. In the absence of any certainty about the funds, indeed in an objective uncertainty, as the decisions are postponed year by year to the Government of turn, it becomes impossible, for the publishing companies, to program its own activity also with direct reference to the qualifying elements provided for by this reform, such as the hiring of journalists with an indefinite contract and the innovation of process and product, identified by the bill as suitable tools to find a new model of sustainability of the autonomous information on the market. Therefore, for this reason, it would be essential for the law, as part of the delegation to the Government, to ensure that a share of the available resources would be allocated to qualified companies for the ability to produce independent and independent information.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u267	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 1306, which reads as follows: 'in paragraph 2, delete point (c) '. In practice, it is used to avoid a snatch of up to 100 million euros, for the period 2016-2018, to that it is called possible extrajective of the RAI fee. Honestly, at RAI we have already imposed too much: a Maggioni, a Dall'Orto and a plethora of people paid a boat of money; we had him sell the antennas of RAI Way; we forced it to a series of cuts. Now let's take away also what, being theoretically an outcast, had to serve to revive the company to throw it in a cauldron and to spread it in a thousand streams. In my opinion, this is unfair and illegitimate, like other rai muggings. I would, therefore, like to have this rule abolished.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u268	Mr President, I would like to make a few amendments, of which I am one of the first signatories. In particular, Amendment 1.22 calls for the deletion of point (d) to paragraph 2. Here, in order to provide provisions which, on the whole, are very modest, a new tax is introduced in areas which are already in difficulty. That is why we propose to delete point (d). With Amendment 1.33 we propose changes to avoid affecting areas that are already in a difficult period and finding new resources. However, I would like to emphasise Amendment 1,34 in particular. As I fear that this new tax will be approved and that it will be added to the long list of new taxes established by this Government (which cuts them only in words, but not in practice), with this amendment we stress that this tax should also affect the collection of advertising carried out through the Internet also by companies based abroad. The Internet is a very particular thing, it is a global network, but we find ourselves in the paradoxical situation that those who today are absolutely the biggest giants in industry, the largest companies in the world, are precisely those of the Internet, more than anything that produces more concrete and visible things. Well, these companies choose places of convenience in countries that are small tax shelters and in any case not in Italy; the result is that the advertising of Italian products, made on Italian sites, of things produced in Italy and destined to be sold in Italy, pay taxes in Ireland, in the United States of America or who knows where. Therefore, we expect this, if we want to contribute; it is useless to go hitting small or medium-sized companies in our home and then leave intact companies that are worth hundreds of billions in stock prices. We must therefore determine whether we are with the strongest, especially if they are foreigners, or whether we are also with the little ones, especially if they are Italians. The same is proposed by amendment 1.35, while amendment 1.61 provides that the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, which has to determine the allocation of resources annually, has at least some constraints, for example, to ensure that at least 80% of these resources are allocated to measures in support of publishing provided for in Article 3 of Law No 250 of 1990, which is what we are talking about. Otherwise we have a blank delegation, which would be of dubious constitutionality because the government is given total discretion in establishing a destination for these funds, which in the idea of all of us should be dedicated to support for publishing and instead can go for other purposes. I see that other Members have also put forward proposals of this kind, so I believe that this is an important aspect. It is not possible, it is not serious (it means giving up a prerogative that absolutely must be of Parliament) to establish that, while the purposes of the expenses are determined in detail by law, then the amounts are arbitrarily determined by the Government. It is something totally unacceptable and I hope that this amendment will be adopted, as well as what it proposes that those who use Italian-based activities for products destined for the Italian market pay taxes in Italy; since they do not pay the others, at least this 0.1% levy pays it in Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u269	Mr President, I would also like to comment on some of the amendments to which I was first a signatory, apologizing for the fact that we have received the dossier very recently, so I will ask the President to help me with the numbering. With the deleterious amendment 1.22, as Mr Malan anticipated, we want to eliminate what has been very politely (very often the devil is in the details) defined as a contribution of solidarity, but I would like to define this solidarity as a somewhat hairy solidarity. It is in fact a tax of 0.1 per cent of the total income from advertising revenue in daily and periodic press and on radio and digital media. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have all stigmatized the crisis in the sector in our speeches - of course, we have not heard many speeches by the majority, unfortunately. We are in the process of explaining the amendments and, apart from any controversial assessment, frankly we do not think it appropriate to include yet another additional tax, yet another leap. We are, indeed, at a stage - I think I remember, in the government's promotional activity - of a strong reduction in taxes, which we do not see but which perhaps lies somewhere. Definitely not here. We are asking - we have already done so in the Commission and we are repeating it in this Chamber, recalling our previous speeches - for the removal of this tax, which is a new tax to all intents and purposes, which affects the dealers, those companies which carry out advertising sales directly, but also those which, if necessary, use intermediaries. This sector is already in crisis: let us try to help it and not put it under additional burdens. It is clear that, since it is a contribution of 0.1 per cent, already at first reading in the House it was said that such a small gabella can and must be accepted without excessive drama. In fact, 0.1 of something is always a 0.1, so let's not underestimate the crisis in the sector, because by means of 0.1 the already heavily weakened coffers of companies are impoverished. Amendment 1.33 corresponds, in substance, to the same aims as the previous one. We believe that the contribution of solidarity from advertising dealers is unfair and doubtful constitutionality. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a forceful contribution, which we do not want and cannot endorse. We have said before that this whole measure is based on a tiring balance, but we must achieve, achieve and preserve, between the needs of those who, deservingly, must exercise an activity that enunciates the right to information and the rules of the free market. Attention, because the imposition of rules, and unfair rules, strongly unbalance this balance, which we already do not see as existing in some parts of these provisions, but which certainly these dispositions alter deeply. Amendment 1.34 underpins the same purpose. Since other media and crossmedia communication and telecommunications tools are included in the text we are opposed to, the reformulation that we propose is that the payment of the contribution also by new Internet operators over the top is also extended to those based abroad, currently not subject to the regulatory framework applied to audiovisual media service providers, but which draw huge and ever increasing advertising resources from the same market in which traditional publishers and broadcasters operate. The reference of the registered office also abroad is inserted in order to ensure the effectiveness of the standard, in order not to create discrimination for national operators and not to create elements of competitive disadvantage for advertising activity in the press and broadcasters. Mr President, Amendment 1.35 also corresponds to the same objectives, while Amendment 1.37 amends the text to the extent that it does not yet allow us to identify in a unique way the person from whom to claim solidarity contribution. We therefore propose the text as our indication. As far as I am concerned, this is enough for the explanation of the amendments. On one point I reserve the right to speak on the occasion of the examination of Article 2; otherwise, I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u270	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u272	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to Amendment 1,65, at the first signature of Senator Mazzoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u273	We take note of that, Baran senator. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u274	Mr President, I am opposed to all the amendments, with the exception of amendment 1.20, which I suggest is a change in the agenda, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u275	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u276	I put to the vote Amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u277	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u278	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u279	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment essentially proposes the repeal of the professional order of journalists. I just remember the fact that it was established by a law of 1963, starting from a register established by Mussolini. It was a register controlled by the government and put under the protection of the Ministry of Justice; it served precisely to gag the freedom of the press. Today this control body basically cements a corporation that limits access to the profession of journalist by those who want to contribute to the plurality of the voices that intervene in Italian information. From this point of view, it is not seen as a law that aims precisely at plurality, it may not contain this simple measure. It must be said that Italy is the only country to have such an Order and perhaps it is not by chance that Italy, again this year, has fallen further to 77th place in the ranking of countries for freedom of the press, behind Botswana. Of this book I remember that Einaudi wrote: The obligatory record is immoral, because it tends to place a limit on what limits it has not and must not have, that is, to the free expression of thought. Admitting the principle of the compulsory register would be a resurrection of the worst institutes of castes and closed corporations, prone to the desires of the tyrants and bitter enemies of young people, rebels, non-conformists. As for the Order of Journalists, Berlinguer added: I am opposed to the requirement of any degree of study for the profession of journalist, because I regard this as absurd discrimination, class discrimination, contrary to the freedom of the press and the free expression of one's own opinions (which our Constitution protects). So, information is free and the Order of Journalists restricts freedom of information. Anyone must be able to write without constraints except those provided for by the law. The main theoretical justification for orders is that they would give a guarantee of quality to citizens. But what is the quality guaranteed by the Order of Journalists? If I speak of a doctor I can understand that the Order checks the existence of qualifications, but what is the title of study for a journalist? We have other characteristics to value: the ability to ask uncomfortable questions and not merely express opinions, to go and look for the facts. We have a warhead who chose this name because the facts are missing and we are flooded with opinions and propaganda. This bill must not fail to abolish the Order of Journalists. Only in this way will we have a fundamental measure for freedom of information for all Italian citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u280	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u282	SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u283	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Senator Endrizzi, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u284	Mr President, this amendment aims to eliminate public funding in newspapers. Here again we have a measure introduced by fascism, initially with the National pulp and paper body whose activity tended to the autarchic development of the internal market of raw materials. Then, in 1994, this institution was abolished. However, funding has still been provided: from 2003 to 2015 €1.5 billion has been allocated to publishers. This measure was to end at the initiative of the Monti Government in 2014; but what did the Renzi Government do? It introduced the Extraordinary Fund in support of publishing that reserved 50, 40 and 30 million from 2014 to 2016. So maybe I have too much memory but I remember Matteo Renzi that when he had to climb the party secretariat to get where he now said he wanted to abolish this funding and allocate it to kindergartens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today everything is taken back and the reason is also quite clear. Why does this law come today, on the eve of the referendum campaign, which is for him the field battle? Because in this way - it is a delegated law - the Government will have an additional blackmail tool to condition the press that has already recently silent on the referendum against drilling at sea. [[Applause from Senator Puglia]] We have seen how successful the government is in the press and the explanation lies in this bill and in the fact that the government will exercise a power of blackmail, an implicit gag. The financing of publishing, whether public or private, is always conditional and must be reduced to the minimum essential, should not be left to the discretion of the President of the Council of Ministers to determine who must have and who must not because this means that we prevent citizens from knowing things by respecting the principle of truth, intellectual honesty and transparency in access to information. Mr President, we are calling for the abolition of the amount of riots that today is going to pollute our freedom of the press, the abolition of them once and for all, and the removal of the political life of this country from the doubt that it is affected by these powers which have nothing to do with democracy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u285	Senator Endrizzi, answer me about the next ones. Are you going to insist on the vote even if there is an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution? ENDRIZZI (M5S). No, Mr President, we merely explain the essentials. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I was wondering if you would insist on voting on the amendments on which there is an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, this is a obstructive attempt. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you want to vote for them, even if there is the opposite opinion under Rule 81? Yes or no? ENDRIZZI (M5S). If these are essential amendments, we will do so, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do we vote for this? Do you insist? ENDRIZZI (M5S). Of course, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.3, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, up to the words 'to guarantee'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Senator Endrizzi, do you insist on voting? ENDRIZZI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u286	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u287	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u288	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement presented to the House the first proposal for a draft written by citizens to abolish public funding for publishing. It was the first experiment of direct democracy online in the history of the Republic. The installation of this proposal has been developed by our members of the 7th Commission and has been subjected to the contribution of the persons registered to the LEX platform of the 5 Star Movement. There were 4,456 interventions, of which 3,269 were suggestions, 639 additions, 137 amendments, 258 objections and 57 flaws of form raised. It was an extraordinary participation that resulted in these main points: repealing all the provisions that provide funding for publishing, with the exception of that for contributions of a predominantly social nature; diverting the 80 million euros of which Renzi complained...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u289	Excuse me if I interrupt you, Senator Endrizzi: for my mistake, I have not indicated that, having been rejected the first part of Amendment 1.3, the remaining part and amendment 1.4 are foreclosed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, until the words 'following provisions' are inserted. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.6 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment No 1,300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. I call on Senator Gasparri and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,301. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1302, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I withdraw amendments 1,302 and 1,303. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Gasparri and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of Amendment 1,304, until the words "the letter" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,305 and 1,306 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 1.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.15 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.17. GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 1,18 and 1,19 are impervious. Senator Endrizzi, in relation to amendment 1.20, the rapporteur had proposed that the agenda be changed. Do you accept this proposal?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u290	Mr President, I withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda. However, I would like to put it to the vote and briefly explain it. The Government is asked to assess the expansion of the audience of persons and families exempted from the payment of the RAI fee, which is currently expected for people over 75 years of age and with a income of less than 8,000 euros. We must extend this exemption to all households and people with incomes below EUR 13.000 and pensioners. Attention to large families and those who have children or people who are not self-sufficient and we give totally free access to what in many families is the only instrument of acculturation. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u291	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.20, presented by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Mazzoni, until the words 'letter (d) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,22 and 1,307 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.23, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.27 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,28, which is essentially the same as Amendment 1.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u292	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u293	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u294	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to say that I voted in favour of these identical amendments, which reflect a subject that I mentioned in the previous speech, because the search for resources refers to the activities of the Internet and also refers to those who have a total turnover of more than EUR 100 million. So it is a fair intention to ensure that those who have extensive resources and work on the network can pay. This issue, ladies and gentlemen, and I say this above all to those who have not had the opportunity to follow the debate and the general discussion before, is important because today we have a problem of network giants operating in the world of information by making an unequal competition to newspapers and activities that we then try to support with interventions, single funds, subsidies of various kinds, but which are then overwhelmed. This is because the consumption of information, knowledge and news takes place more and more on the network through the so-called OTT (over the top), i.e. the great protagonists on the computer scene, which are also able to orient consumption. In fact there is not only the information that is conveyed by these great operators like Google, Amazon and all the others: there is also the activity of online commerce, activity certainly important and in many ways appreciable, often also convenient, because the costs of intermediation decrease and therefore the final buyer can also draw some advantages. Of course, there are also repercussions on traditional trade networks that may suffer, but this is also the competition due to technological developments. But in the field of information, this issue is very topical. We see that agreements are sometimes made. In my general speech I mentioned, for example, the understanding that FIEG, the publishers' federation, has made with one of the main operators of the Network, guaranteeing publishers a fortune of some millions of euros. The same thing had been done years ago in France, but they are meant episodic, they are private agreements. Or we have seen that even the current Government has boasted that some great operators of the Network - some of these OTT - have decided to make investments in Italy, in Naples. We have also seen that many of these activities are training and do not create work. For Christ's sake, let everything that moves the waters in such an uncertain time come, however, the problem remains of how to regulate the colossus of the network and avoid phenomena of tax evasion and avoidance. In a Europe that imposes competitions even for beaches and street vendors and world competitions for any activity, I do not think it is right to see a total freedom of action for these protagonists. I understand that a kind of fiscal obscurantism should not be fostered. We are a liberal movement and, of course, we want to encourage all innovations, but a liberal principle of fair competition cannot see some people exempted from a myriad of costs and taxes, even in the field of publishing, for any activity and for all employees. The purchase of paper is also burdened with taxes (let's think about paper newspapers). Everything that is in the production cycle - from the cultural and intellectual performance of journalists, to the performance of employees working in the press, to the purchase of machinery - is burdened by a number of taxes. There is too much tax freedom in the field of technological information. Therefore, we believe that it is absolutely right to feed these funds, as proposed by the two amendments before us. For this reason, the Forza Italia Group, for a more fair principle of tax fairness and competition, agrees with the identical amendments 1.28 and 1.30, tabled by Mrs Bisinella, Mr Munerato, Mr Bellot and Mr Mazzoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u295	I inform you that a new allocation has been made to Commission 12a of draft law No 998-B, which contains: Provisions on neonatal diagnostics required for the prevention and treatment of inherited metabolic diseases, already approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies. Without prejudice to the opinions already requested, the Commission shall be authorised to convene.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u296	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, which is essentially the same as Amendment 1.30, tabled by Senator Mazzoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.32, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,309, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.34.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u297	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u298	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u299	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, although we shall of course vote in favour of amendment 1.34, with regard to the first part alone, in order to avoid foreclosure of the next amendment. This amendment calls for the most powerful companies in the world to be taxed, and that is perhaps the reason why there is a certain reluctance to approve it. The most powerful and largest companies in the world today are those that manage advertising on the Internet. Just see the stock market capitalization data of the very large companies. They do their job - very well - but it is right that they pay taxes and that, for activities they do in Italy, they pour them in our country. This has also been said by the President of the Budget Committee of the House, Mr Boccia, who is - indeed, he is an important character - a member of the Democratic Party. It is time to put this into practice. The measure introduces a new tax and provides that the largest individuals who, in the Italian area, have a huge turnover are exempted from payment, but do not pay taxes in our country. Let's at least charge them this fee. We know very well that one of the main reasons for the publishing crisis is that both readers and advertisers tend to move from printed to the Internet. We cannot oppose the technological evolution, tastes, sensitivity and uses of citizens, but we cannot even punish those who use the so-called old media and instead protect the very powerful from any kind of taxation - which are probably such even politically, and that is why there is the opposition to approving this amendment - collectors, collectors and advertisers on the Internet, including, as we write in our amendment, search engines and so on. Here is really the proof: are we with the great companies, with capitalization of 300, 400 or 500 billion, or are we with the small Italian press? We are with Italian information companies, from small to large newspapers: even the largest of these companies are in fact dwarfs compared to these giants, that the formulation of the norm exempts also from this tax, after they already pay the other taxes in the shelters or tax shelters, which for a bad translation are defined as tax havens. Here's the rehearsal. Do you want to help large companies, exempt them from taxes, and slaughter Italian companies? Do so, but I suggest you vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u300	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.34, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, until the words "digital" add the following: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.35 to 1.39 are therefore not included. I call on Senator Gasparri and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,310. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,311, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.40 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u301	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u302	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u303	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am voting for Amendment No 1.40 and I would like to stress that I welcome the initiative of my colleagues in the Autonomous Group who have tabled it and I do not appreciate the decision to withdraw it. The subject is similar to that of the previous amendment: if you do not want to exempt web giants from this taxation, then you should vote on this amendment, already tabled by Senators Zeller and Berger and now mine. I am sorry that the esteemed Members are giving up an amendment that makes a full sense, right, in defence of everyone and in favour of equality. We don't want to hit and punish the giants - for Christ's sake! - but at least we'd like them to be treated like the others. And not that the poor provincial newspaper, which collects 5,000 euros of advertising, has to pay taxes, while the 500 billion-capitalization giants do not have to pay anything. Apparently there is a tendency to defend the giants and massacre the little ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u304	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u305	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u306	GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would ask you to accept Amendment No 1.40.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u307	The Presidency takes note of this. I call on Senator Zeller and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.40, which was withdrawn and subsequently taken over by Senators Malan and Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.67 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.41.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u308	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u309	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u310	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this is an amendment by my colleague, Mrs De Petris, which deals with a vexed question. Every time we discuss the law of stability, we talk about the local broadcasting fund, an issue that is also well known to the Undersecretary Giacomelli, along with many colleagues in this House. Even in the past years we remember that, above all, some local broadcasting associations linked the right of local broadcasters to receive appropriations to the proceeds of the canon. To be honest, the local broadcasting agency has always received public contributions and in the past it has received more substantial contributions. The local issue has played and plays an important role of territorial balance in the world of information, giving voice to the lives of the territories of the cities, local politics and social life of the various Italian realities. In the local issue they have often grown and are growing companies of important size. This amendment calls for a very reasonable allocation of an appropriate figure, estimated at EUR 50 million, to the local issue, because of the major receipts that the fee should record with its introduction into the electricity bill. Moreover, undersecretary Giacomelli knows that this issue has been discussed and there is also a favourable orientation of the Government in this direction. The amendment is therefore useful for photographing a reality, indicating the amount to be allocated for this purpose in at least 50 million, taken from any higher revenue from the fee. It is imagined, in fact, that the rent in the bill will result in greater revenues for the Treasury, which cashes it and then must divert it to the public service radio and television exercised by the RAI. We have discussed this in the parliamentary committees, even recently, and there is this direction. I say to my fellow Members that the opportunity of this amendment 1.41 is precisely to establish that at least 50 million of these major revenues go to the local office. So we'll have some sort of guaranteed minimum. Indeed, those Members who do not deal with this issue during the year, when the law of stability arrives, are rightly urged by local broadcasters and by the various associations which legitimately call for support. Since more money will enter the state's coffers, to enjoy not only RAI but also the democracy of the territories, the multiplicity of voices, in a sector that is also undergoing a strong selection and is reducing numbers, with a selection, sometimes, even painful. This guaranteed minimum can therefore lead to greater safety. In fact, there is employment, there is development, there is vocational training in the field of local emitency. Therefore, the amendment is absolutely reasonable and fair and the Forza Italia Group, for this reason, will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u311	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u312	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u313	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, first of all I would ask Senator De Petris to be able to sign Amendment No 1.41 on behalf of Italy of values. I would also add that this amendment follows the line of what we voted in the Stability Act. There, in fact, we decided on the destination of the canon's extracarriage. Now, we will see if already in July, in the first instalment, there will be a greater income but, in all cases, part of that greater income will have to go to the local broadcasters and part to expand the audience of the exempt from payment the fee. Therefore, a common economic minimum of 50 million is a fair figure, because this extrajective is supposed to exceed these 50 million.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u314	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u315	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u316	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the removal of the ballots corresponding to the many absent senators. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u317	I invite the Secretary Senators to carry out a check and to remove any cards where the Senator's presence is not detected.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u318	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u320	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I naturally accept Senator Bencini's request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u321	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u322	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u323	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I also ask that we be able to add the signature to Amendment 1.41. I am then reminded here by my colleague Gasparri also the external proposer. It is an external subject which, however, also in the last parliamentary term, has highlighted all the reasons, which are not private but publicistic in nature, waited for the fact that the private broadcasting has a purpose of protecting the principles of democracy. It is precisely in the plurality of information that we guarantee the principles of democracy. On this amendment, Mr President, you will remember that in the last parliamentary term we had real battles, not always successful. I share Mr De Petris' commitment and, as Mr Gasparri said, for the same reasons, that I do not repeat because I would take time, I would ask you to add my signature to Amendment 1.41.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u324	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,41, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,312, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,312, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1,45, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,45, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,313, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,313, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.47, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.49, which is essentially the same as Amendment No 1.314.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u325	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u326	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u327	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to describe the meaning of Amendment No 1.49, which concerns the Fund which we would like to amend in two respects. As a very broad delegation, the first is to clarify a point that is of paramount importance to us, that is to reduce as much as possible the margin of discretion of the Government and therefore to widen the margin of predictability of the companies that year after year must be able to produce their budgets. It is clear that another issue which we find quite pressing is that, since it is a rule that protects the principles of pluralism in information, it is rather specious that the majority decide the rights of the minority. Therefore, on this assumption, on the protection of the minority that must be written on paper for objective tabulas, we give the sense of the numbers that we express. In fact, in the absence of objective certainty about the funds (in fact, uncertainty is objective), decisions are postponed from year to year by the Government and a programmatic difficulty is created regarding the activity of the enterprises. That is the point of amendment 1.49 and that is why we believe it is essential that the law, within the framework of the delegation to the Government, ensures that a share of the available resources is allocated to qualified companies for the ability to produce independent and independent information.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u328	A paper has arrived on which I will be forced to carry out calligraphic evaluations regarding the nonsense that is written and handed over to the Senator Secretary. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.49, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 1.314, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.51, which is essentially the same as Amendment No 1.52.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u329	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u330	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u331	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, one of the problems in this text concerns the distribution of the sums specified in paragraph 4, which are the result, among other things, of the introduction of a new tax, to which all those who work in a certain sector are subject, unless they are international giants with multi-billion-dollar turnovers, in which case they are protected while the children have to pay. Well, despite this tax, there is no guarantee that the purposes for which this bill - at least nominally - is made, receive an adequate share of the resources that are collected. I note that the title of the draft law, on the other hand, mentions the discipline for public support for the publishing sector; then, however, when the amendments call for at least a certain part to be guaranteed to publishing, they are rejected. Amendments 1.51 and 1.52 call for the guarantee of a certain fund to be guaranteed at least for a quota (lower, because it has always been) and at least for local radio and television broadcasting (sub-line, local). They are companies in difficulty, also put in difficulty by the Internet; there is a risk that they will be hit, indirectly, by the supertax on advertising, from which the international giants are exempted: at least we guarantee them a sum, otherwise it is all at the sole discretion of the Government, that Government that the constitutional reform wants to put in the hands of only one person without control anywhere. You are already carrying on with your work: killing small publishing, defending the giants and giving all power to one person. We're not in.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u332	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u333	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u334	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, on behalf of all the members of the Group, I would ask you to support these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u335	It's nice, because it's my first signature. I can't refuse, not being in my place right now. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.51, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 1.52, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.53, tabled by Senator Mazzoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,56, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,57, tabled by Senators Bruni and Liuzzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.315. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. Amendment 1.58 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,59, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.61, which is essentially identical to Amendments Nos 1.63 and 1.65.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u336	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u337	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u338	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you have already pointed out the identity of amendments 1.61, 1.63 and 1.65. As far as I am concerned, the ratio is the same as in Amendment No 1.49: marginalising, as far as possible, the inherent discretion to grant subsidies from the fund, especially because this discretion - it will never be said enough - harms publishing companies. They told us: each of us had contacts, during the debate in the Commission and during the hearings, with the operators of the sector, the famous stakeholders, and everyone indicated to us the need to have certainties, which did not depend on an excess of annual opacity in the allocation of funds, but made it possible for them to make multiannual programming. The sector is in crisis - and we will never say this enough - and we must facilitate its recovery, not the crisis through excessively manicheous rules, which undermine the result they originally wanted to achieve. This is the meaning of our amendment: limiting discretion and above all buffering the excess size of the delegation, which is one of the greatest pathologies that characterize this measure: too little discussion of the provision in the parliamentary classrooms and too many delegations left to the government's activity and to the activity of secondary standardization, also in this context. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u339	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u340	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u341	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, the amendment 1,65, to which I added my signature, is intended to ensure local news. Our newspapers, publishing, small publishers and above all the citizens need to have the local news, the town news, the country news, and sometimes you buy the newspapers only to read the local news, which is the one that arouses the greatest interest in those who live a certain reality. With this amendment we allow small publishers to at least be able to make the budgets. In fact, we are not unaware that discretionary powers are conferred on the Government in the distribution of the fund. This is contrary to the need both to recognise a subjective right for publishers, and therefore to have certainty about the distribution of funds, even planned, to make budgets, and to guarantee the independence of information. We therefore believe that at least 80% of the expenditure should be devoted to the measures in support of publishing provided for by Law No 250 of 1990 (law made precisely these days, on 7 August, and little modified later). We believe that we can provide citizens with support for small-scale publishing and have the opportunity, with the local news, to be informed about what is happening in their own area, in their own countries, in small communities, to participate - we believe - in social and civic life. Italy is made up of many small municipalities - they are a few thousand those under 3,000 inhabitants - and the chronicle of the small publishing is addressed to them; the information is given a bit like the door to door in those small municipalities. We therefore call on the House to support Amendment No 1.65, first signed by Mr Mazzoni, together with the other identical amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u342	I call on Senator Gasparri and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.61, which is essentially identical to the amendments 1.63, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, and 1.65, tabled by Senators Mazzoni and Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,316, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,316, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I call for the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.2, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u343	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u344	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u345	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, from legislative publishing to practical publishing: in a few minutes there will be an important meeting of the RAI Parliamentary Supervisory Committee, with the hearing of RAI summits, and events on the agenda are known. I should therefore like to ask the Presidency to allow the numerous Members of the Commission to attend its meeting which is about to begin and to continue in another sitting the examination, which has been successfully initiated, of the measure relating to publishing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u346	In view of the fact that we have reached page 72 of the list of amendments, and so we have done a good deal of the work, and that the Presidency had indicated that it was possible to hold committees or meetings when it had not been voted on, and at the moment, however, we should vote, if there is no opposition from the House, I could arrange for the closure of the sitting. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u347	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u348	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u349	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, we are opposed to this request for two reasons: firstly, in the last few days there has been a sudden acceleration in the examination of this measure already in the Commission, also working in ways that are not entirely in line with the serious work of the Commission. There has also been an acceleration this evening in the calendarization of the bill on publishing that you want to vote, evidently, before the summer, in order to be able to announce with a tweet that the measure has been voted. Secondly, it is not clear to me that every time Senator Airola has requested a suspension of the sitting for a meeting of the RAI Supervisory Committee, even more important than today's meeting has ever been granted. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And, therefore, now we wonder why the request of Gasparri all agree. We oppose this request, although I regret my colleagues who are part of the RAI Supervisory Committee. On more than one occasion the same request was made, even in situations of minor emergency where there was time to vote, and the suspension was not granted. That is why we oppose it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u350	As there is an opposition, the proposal will have to be voted on. I put to the vote the proposal to postpone the discussion of the drafts of law in title to another session, advanced by Senator Gasparri. It's approved. So let us move on to the speeches at the end of the sitting. Colleagues, being the number of applicants excessive, I invite the senators to be very brief, because it is not possible to add practically an evening session in which the most varied topics are dealt with.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u351	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u352	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u353	MATTESINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Development to reply to Question 4-04004 of 20 May 2015, which concerns a very delicate situation. A construction cooperative in Arezzo, La Perla, in 2009 had an assessment by the Finance Guard ended with a judgment of the court of Arezzo that sentenced the President of the cooperative for attempted extortion. The point is that the Ministry of Economic Development requested the liquidation of the cooperative in 2010 and appointed two inspectors of the Ministry who, automatically, despite the delicacy of the situation, before the expiry of the deadline for the filing of the report, have arranged the compulsory administrative liquidation of the cooperative. The situation is now as follows. I have repeatedly asked for my question, including by telephone calls to the offices concerned, and the serious thing is that in the meantime a situation of great differentiation has been created between the members themselves arriving - it seems - for some of them, to define confidential contracts. A situation has arisen, therefore, for which some of the members, who are among other things those who have denounced the initial situation, find themselves having paid the house completely for about 300,000 euros and now risk losing it. I therefore ask the Ministry for an answer to understand whether the situation is exactly what is described and whether there is the will, at the time of the founders, to allow those people to save the house that they have paid entirely.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u354	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u355	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u356	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, the new rules introducing the new electronic identity card, which goes beyond the unified document (electronic identity card and health card), have recently identified 199 pilot municipalities and have discovered problems. The release times of the new identity card increase from one to six days, and the current costs from 5.42 euros go up to 22.21 euros. The cost, therefore, increases four times for a document that is not voluptuous, but mandatory. The fingerprinting equipment - which the League has been asking for for for several years - is placed in the municipality. The disabled and those who can't move from home how will they do it? Is this the simplification of the Renzi Government? This is yet another burden for taxpayers. That is why I have tabled a parliamentary question asking the Ministers of the Interior and Public Administration whether they intend to introduce gratuitousness at least for children; how they will solve the problem of fingerprinting for those who cannot move from home and, finally, to provide for a revision of the provisions to genuinely pursue the objectives of simplification, gratuitousness and reduction of the time taken to issue the identity card. It goes in the opposite direction to the wishes of Italian citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We hope that the pilot project will serve to correct the course.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u357	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u358	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u359	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, after a year of lengthy negotiations, the Province of Pavia - where there is a leading provincial administration of the Democratic Party - has awarded Autoguidovie the custody of the local public transport service for the Province itself. We're talking about 406 employees in custody. For the past year, the League has reminded the provincial administration and former Senator Bosone of the Democratic Party that there have been 406 employees, but 450 employees, as well as 40 other subcontracting workers. The appeal is missing 100 people, 100 jobs. In addition, the project concerning the use of methane buses has disappeared. Yesterday the CUB union, together with the League, protested under the headquarters of the Municipality of Pavia. Thanks to the Democratic Party in the Province of Pavia there are more pollution and fewer jobs. The citizens of Pavesi thank you for the last gift of President Bosone. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u360	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u361	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u362	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, with this speech I intend to continue the relay that we have proposed to denounce the violence against women. Today, in Lucca, Vania Vannucchi died, forty-six years old, a socio-sanitary worker, burned alive by the former colleague with whom she had had a history that she had decided to cut off. Sprinkled her with gasoline and set her on fire. It's a calculated, premeditated and horrible crime! In Caserta Rosaria Lentini was killed last night by stabbing, with extreme violence during a fight! It's another heinous crime. More than 60 women have been killed in the emotional field since the beginning of 2016 in Italy, over 180 since January 2015. Therefore, we appeal to the Minister for Equal Opportunities and to the entire Government to monitor the application, merits and limitations of Law No 119 of 2013 and, above all, to give full and accurate implementation to the anti-violence plan. We are pleased to hear the news that Minister Elena Boschi has decided to convene in September the steering booth provided for in the plan. We also appeal to the media: sometimes in the press releases we have the perception that, in the end, we justify the murderers and blame women. The crime of passion or the history of jealousy is often justified. In fact, it is brutality as an alternative to the word, to trample on and mark domination. An appeal to the country, men and women: 160 women are killed every year, and we can no longer accept this massacre. We cannot give in to addiction, we must not give in to indignation, we must continue to fight, we must denounce, we must demand that the laws be applied and, if not enough, we must demand that they be amended. Everyone can and must play a role to put an end to this list of horrors. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Donno. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u363	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u364	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u365	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking because we have really come to an end. The paradox is that the media do not even report what is happening in the municipalities anymore. I have heard, and we have all learned from the agencies, that a Syrian extremist, resident in Varese, has been arrested because he is suspected with overwhelming evidence to be organizing activities for jihad, even to go and fight in Syria. At the same time, I became aware of something absurd: in the municipality of Bettona they were brought, without even the mayor had confirmed and news, twenty-two asylum seekers, put in a house declared inaccessible by the municipality, without even the permissions to reside in that building, with the municipal authority climbed over. The same is true in the Province of Varese, in Gazzada Schianno. The mayor of Saronno is forced to use his local police officers to chase the illegals who travel around the country, who, despite being rejected, were not returned to the country of origin. It is a security situation that concerns us very much, with the mayors, who are the last protection of citizens on the territory, abandoned to themselves. This is a serious situation. We are in a period of extreme social tension and we need from the Ministry of Security and Certainties, and not of this abandonment, not of the prefects that put illegals in countries keeping the mayors in the dark. These are serious situations, in which we ask the Ministry of the Interior for an instant awareness. Otherwise, we say to the mayors: rebel, prevent such occupation and that this invasion continues in the Communes with the complicit silence of the press. No, this situation needs to be stopped. [[Applause from Senator Divine.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u366	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-674.ana.u367	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, August 4, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.08 p.m.
