ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u2	Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, after checking the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u3	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 9.55 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed at 9.56 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u4	Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u7	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I again request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u8	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u9	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u10	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:57 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u11	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2223, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 1662. I recall that Articles 1 to 5 were approved at the afternoon sitting on 23 June. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6. I'll put it to a vote. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Colleagues, awaiting the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.57 a.m. and resumed at 10.17 a.m.) The session is resumed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u14	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, recent events both in Europe and in Middle Eastern chessboard countries have highlighted the raising of the terrorist threat of the jihadist matrix which, presenting itself in often new forms and of unusual violence, constitutes a very serious pitfall for internal security and is a factor of instability for states - I think of those in North Africa or even the near East - which are in complex and sometimes dramatic political and social situations. The fight against terrorism requires an overall strategy to respond effectively to a serious and significant threat. It is obvious, therefore, that it is necessary and urgent to set up a set of rules which, at various levels, are concerned with responding to the needs of the security of the community, in the face of terrorist phenomena which have suddenly plunged into barbarism and have dramatically risen to the honours of the chronicles. In this context, it becomes inevitable to strengthen the existing regulatory framework by introducing measures to prevent the rooting of these organisations and to implement more stringent controls on the means and materials that could be used to carry out the attacks. The events of Bari and Milan, where two people were arrested on the charge of being part of a terrorist cell linked to the Islamic State and Al Qaeda and which - according to the investigators - were ready to make attacks in malls, ports and airports, show evidence that for months we have been trying to place on the agenda of an Italian policy that has been excited after the atrocious attacks in Paris and Brussels, but then has as removed the risk of terrorism. The West in general is underestimating the challenge. What else is needed after the two towers, after London, after Madrid, after Copenhagen, after Charlie Hebdo, after the Bardo museum, after the plane in Egypt, after Paris last November, after Brussels, to understand that, for almost fifteen years now, the monster of Islamist terrorism has chosen the card of indiscriminate attacks on civilian victims? There's no point in making any illusions. Italy is unfortunately a possible target, as the propaganda of ISIS clearly repeats. We can't wait any longer. In particular, it is necessary to strengthen the international military mission against ISIS in order not to leave failed states and empty spaces, from Syria to Libya, where ISIS can move, prosper and plan. In our country, then, we must immediately close the irregular mosques and every place of cult irregular and without controls, allowing the opening only of mosques and places of worship authorized and controlled. We need systematic control of the territory in relation to the phenomenon of underground aggregation centres. In the rest of Europe, national and European authorities must be persuaded to regain the legality of the areas of territory left behind, in the name of a failed and already failed multiculturalism, in the hands of Islamist communities and in fact removed from the law. In this sense, although there is still much to be done, I announce the favorable vote of the Group of Conservatives and Reformists to this measure, also because they are ratifications of measures, all agreed during the center-right government. And the regulatory framework that Europe has approved (already for years, for the truth), which contributes to a real opposition to terrorism and to an action to protect citizens against terrorist acts of various kinds, is exactly what we are asking Italy in particular. If anything, the negative point is that it has taken years for the central-left government currently in office - or mostly on the left, more correctly - to bring ratification of these measures to the House. Six years have passed and today alone there is a need for ratification. But what is worse is that, while we ratify what Europe and the other European States have agreed, the Italian Government remains absolutely at large for everything that is happening in Italy. We consider the defence of the citizen in terms of internal and international security against terrorism, but also against criminality, a priority. On the contrary, let us consider that security is a precondition for freedom. Without a political will to combat terrorism, to combat crime, there cannot be the free exercise of all the freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. There can be no serenity in transport, in transfers. There can be no serenity of parents towards the child who takes the subway to school. There can be no serenity for those in work who could be undermined by terrorism and various forms of crime. In essence, it is not our invention the term "internal or international security," it is not a propagandistic fact. Sometimes I've heard: There are those who blow into the fire. It seems to us that there is, instead, who the fire pretends not to see at the cost of burning the freedom of the citizens. That is why we are voting in favour of the ratifications under consideration, keeping all our criticism of the government's inadequacy to give answers on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u17	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, with this measure we ratify a number of rules relating to the fight against terrorism contained in conventions dating back a few years, perhaps too many years ago. We would like to draw attention to the comments already made by my colleague in the general debate. The first conventions were born in a historical period that we remember well, in which Al Qaeda's emerging threat and the fear that there would be a system, a network led by Osama Bin Laden that would provoke further attacks on the United States. In fact, with the death of Osama Bin Laden the problem of terrorism has not been solved, and we have unfortunately noticed this over time. We also realized that the danger posed by terrorism has become even more insidious: not only has it not failed, but it has shown that it can be particularly insidious. In this sense, the last events we have witnessed have been particularly dramatic, because terrorism has manifested itself not only through an airplane that has violated the spaces belonging to a country, but also through people infiltrated, who cannot simply be controlled with a radar. There are people who infiltrate their civil context and perhaps have the citizenship of the place where acts of terrorism are provoked. We therefore believe that, in fact, since then, the world has changed and, with it, terrorism. And the new forms, even territorialized, are particularly dangerous. The North League cannot fail to vote in favour of the ratifications under consideration, although we can only point out that, probably, we could take advantage of the circumstance to tighten up our internal rules further and to make even more effective counter-terrorism measures available to the whole security system. Taking an example, it would have been important to include the prison regime of Article 41-a also with regard to all terrorists. Article 41-a aims to isolate these figures, so that they do not have further contacts, and to eliminate their activities. Terrorism must be combated by measures that are not only dissuasive but particularly penetrating. And, therefore, it is not enough just to ratify, but it is necessary for our own system to have special features of rigour and control over the territory. Despite these considerations, we reiterate the support of the entire Group of the North Legacy for this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u20	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, my Group will vote in favour of this bill which - as we know - arrives in the Senate, in the Italian Parliament, with a very long delay. There is a clear contradiction between conventions and treaties that intervene to prevent terrorism. In our country, from 2005 to today, the related ratifications come to the Assembly eleven years later, very late. This is a guilty delay for Parliament, a delay which does not take account of the concept of prevention of terrorism. It has been said that those rules must be adopted in order to prevent terrorism and come to us eleven years later. I would remind you that the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention for the Prevention of Terrorism was made in Warsaw on 16 May 2005; the International Convention for the Elimination of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, made in New York, dates back to 14 September 2005; the Protocol of Amendment to the European Convention for the Suppression of Terrorism was made in Strasbourg even in 2003. I denounce, therefore, this delay here, today, expressing at the same time, however, the appreciation because, finally, after years, we have come to ratify treaties and conventions. There have been some problems - as we noted in previous sittings - with regard to some amendments. I am referring in particular to Amendment 4.4, the first signatories to Senators Caliendo and Palma, which provides for the amendment of the original text sanctioning with a penalty of only six years those who hold nuclear devices for terrorist purposes. It was said, in essence, that we were going to type the external competition in terrorist association and we left that void of the external competition in Mafia association, thereby determining, in some way, some perplexity on those sentences of condemnation for external competition in Mafia association, which are supported, founded and motivated on the basis of a jurisprudential derivation. The argument is not interesting, to be honest, and - in my opinion - it is not even well founded, given the fact that, if there is a typical standard of external competition in terrorist association, it can in other cases be applied by the judicial authority by analogue. And so, basically, I believe that this measure is going to support even the hypothesis of external competition in terrorist association. There is, however, the problem of punishment, a problem that we have assessed negatively compared to the original prediction of the majority and, therefore, of the measure dismissed by the House, but also with respect to the principle enshrined in Article 27 of our Constitutional Charter, where it is said that the penalty must be reasonable. There is a functionality in Article 27 of the Constitution, because it states that the penalty must be of redemption, and therefore re-educational, and reasonable. The concept of reasonableness has been dealt with by the Constitutional Court in a number of judgments, which have been able to extend it and extend it to the maximum. If we take Article 27 of the Constitution literally, it speaks of reasonable punishment, but there is no reference to the concept of balance. With the Constitutional Court's rulings, the concept of reasonableness of the sentence has been extended and the field of the harmoniousness of the criminal system has also been invaded from the point of view of sanctioning our code. As Senator Giovanardi rightly said when we discussed that amendment, it is therefore not conceivable to condemn a person who holds nuclear and terrorist devices to a six-year sentence - with our internal penalty reduction system would be reduced to very little - and we condemn to a very heavy penalty a citizen who remains involved in a manslaughter. Well, here we are actually breaking that principle of reasonable punishment and, for these reasons, we have voted in favour of the amendment by Senators Caliendo and Palma. Now I would just like to make one point on the final point: since the press has allowed itself to go to the most varied considerations, even speaking of pinches, I would like to make it clear once and for all in this House that we in the AL-A Group are voting for the measures that we share first and foremost from a technical point of view. When it comes to rules on justice that affect the process, we pay absolute and primary attention to the scientific and technical profile, therefore voting in favour of those measures that we share on the substance and also - why not? - politically. Let's be clear, gentlemen, we don't offer numbers to the majority. We don't offer numbers. I have already said this on another occasion: we offer contributions of modest intelligence and preparation, but simply contributions. And I only call them modest because I am a modest man, President Calderoli, but so modest, for the truth, I am not. We offer this to the majority. We are not in a position to offer anything else, because in this House we are thinking in the first place from a technical point of view and that amendment was a proposal to be adopted. And I am surprised that the Government and the rapporteur did not understand that it was right to give an opinion in favour of that amendment. I am also surprised that, from the political point of view of the progress of the House's work, they did not realize that this amendment would be adopted. With regard to President Zanda's speech and his reference to the Justice Commission, we are working and discussing ourselves there, and this issue had been discussed and discussed. But when the government puts itself on certain positions, not allowing confrontation within the Commission, then these are the results. The fault cannot be attributed either to the Commission that works and works well, nor to the one who presides over it because it does it in a masterly way - it happened before with Senator Palma and today with Senator D'Ascola, in the same correct and punctual manner - nor can it be attributed to those senators who cannot bear having to vote for something they do not share. The fault I believe is due to the arrogant attitude, obtuse at some moments, of the Government, a Government that we continue to support, when we share its choices, and to which we address the invitation to be a little more open to understanding our reasons, especially those of an exquisitely technical nature. Having said that, I conclude by saying that, with the adoption of amendments Caliendo 4.10 and 4.12, the measure is shared by us. We are pleased to vote on it, by implementing Conventions which - I remember - were signed in 2003, 2005 and, to date, to date. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u23	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism has changed our perception of life, has taken away our serenity, has made us dangerous, or at least has given us a feeling of danger even in carrying out normal acts such as taking a subway or staying in places full of people. That's what the terrorists were hoping to achieve. They probably hoped to get a security response, a tough-faced response from the Western societies they attacked, so that they could then use that answer as an additional motivation to fight against us, against what they call the new crusaders. Now, the conventions that this Parliament today, and this Senate, is called upon to ratify, are born with this approach. The danger of terrorism exists and is real, and we know it. However, we believe that this type of response, which is entirely based on criminal rules or reductions in the freedom of citizens, is not fair because it is not effective. And it is not because on an Islamic terrorist who decides to wear a belt full of explosives and to get himself - be careful - to explode in the crowd, the tightening of the penis does not have much effect, just as the raising of a penalty does not affect a terrorist who believes to detonate a nuclear, or chemical, or biological device also because he believes, dying, to end up in paradise and to be rewarded many times, surely along with his family. What all Western society should have access to as an attempt to solve and as a cure for the problem is the drying up of hate crops that in the Middle East countries have, in recent decades, been heavily watered, strongly fertilized by inappropriate, unjust and unjustifiable interventions by the West. I think about what happened in Iraq; I think about how the international community is helping the Syrians: bombing them; I think of the way in which the Western system is rejecting men, women and children who try to escape war and misery: by contracting to others, to effectively dump their conscience, the function of gendarmes and jailers (for example, with the agreement with Turkey). Of course, however, we must try to put in place legislation that makes it difficult for terrorists to attack our cities and our people. However, in order to do so, we must be careful to avoid, in this defensive effort, making other injustices possible in order to reduce the freedom of our citizens. One for all, Article 4 of the bill (the collection of funds intended to finance terrorism also unknowingly) runs the risk of blocking the collection of money for those who want to help the destroyed populations, trampled on by the bombings. I am thinking about what is happening in Syria. It would, therefore, have been important - and we have tabled amendments in this respect - to point out, as precisely as possible, the type of crime, the way in which this behaviour can be defined as a crime, in order to avoid doing wrong by wanting to do good. For these reasons, for the fact that we must not and cannot hide behind repressive rules in relation to our duties to combat terrorism, the Italian Left Group has decided to abstain, knowing that abstention in the Senate means voting against. The point is that the fight against terrorism, the real one, we could do it where we could, for example, make serious legislation and control over arms trafficking. I have seen many cartoons that are extremely explanatory from this point of view: we export weapons and, together with oil, we import terrorists. If the West understands this kind of mechanism, then terrorism will be desiccated where it is born. At the end of this speech, I would like to acknowledge the rapporteur, Senator Lo Giudice, that he had acted differently from the norm and that he had specifically justified his opinions on the amendments. It is a sign of institutional courtesy and scrupulousness in the exercise of its task, which unfortunately I see for the first time here in the Senate. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u26	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, we are about to vote on this draft law, which will require the ratification and implementation of five international treaties and conventions on terrorism, law enforcement and the prevention of the phenomenon of international terrorism. I announce the favorable vote of the 5 Star Movement, but not without making considerations to the sides. In fact, although it is not directly and expressly relevant to the content of the treaties and the criminal norms that we are going to introduce, we cannot fail to recall here too a more general reflection on the fact that the terrorist phenomenon, especially that of the Middle East nature, is born and grows thanks to the international geopolitical situation and the policies that the international community (especially from those bodies of which we are part) has helped to create as a general situation. We therefore believe that Italy's role in countering terrorism could also take place through concrete political acts, such as the implementation of an immediate moratorium on the sale of arms to countries such as Saudi Arabia, which we know uses arms also of Italian origin for military actions against the civilian populations of Yemen. Italy could renegotiate its role in NATO, which by now, as a defensive alliance, has become an alliance too often of war; our country should review the sanctions system against Russia, recently confirmed and extended for a further six months. All this within the framework of the Italian political situation in international bodies. Having said that, and recalling the need for this kind of political action on the substance of the bill, all the more so after last week's amendment with the adoption of an amendment which - as we know - has increased the basic penalty for a very serious crime related to so-called nuclear terrorism, our vote will be in favour because, in addition to the necessary ratification of the treaties and conventions, we remember that with this bill new offences are introduced. With this amendment of the penal code is previewed the new crime of financing of conducts for purposes of terrorism, the crime of subtraction of goods or money subject to seizure. The provisions in question introduce criminal measures aimed at countering also the forms of financing terrorist activities based on the use of funds from lawful activities, i.e. those activities which, while not having an intrinsic disvalue and therefore not - under existing legislation - legally prohibited, can be used in an instrumental way by terrorist organisations. Positive is our judgment also on the norm that provides, in case of conviction or even of plea for these crimes, the confiscation of the things that served or were destined to commit crime is arranged; such confiscation is also provided for equivalent. The new regulations punishing the acts of so-called nuclear terrorism are also to be welcomed. As I said before, we also agreed with the amendment, which was adopted last week with the Government's opposite opinion, which made provision for an increase in imprisonment up to twenty years (instead of the fifteen envisaged by the text from the House) for anyone who uses radioactive matter or a nuclear device or uses or damages a nuclear plant with the purposes of nuclear terrorism. Perhaps, throughout the regulatory mechanism introduced, what has aroused our particular interest is the provisions and provisions of Article 5 of the draft law, which states that the personnel of the Internal and External Information and Security Services (i.e. AISI, AISE and DIS), like the judicial police, are authorized to conduct under the law as a crime also in relation to a specific series of crimes with the purpose of terrorism, operating against the agents of our Services the special cause of non-enforceability referred to in Article 17 of Law No. 124 of 2007. If we go to read this rule, we find the profile of these figures we have often talked about when we dealt with the issue of corruption and the provocative agent. Article 17 of Law No 124 of 2007, in fact, establishes the non-penalty for the personnel of the security information services that puts in place by law as a legally authorised offence from time to time as indispensable to the institutional purposes of such services, in strict compliance with the limits of obvious reasonableness, because the non-penalty for the operators of our security services does not apply as justification whenever the conduct endangers the life or physical integrity of persons, or personal freedom. In the same way, these conducts could not be discriminated against if they were directed against the administration of justice, such as, for example, in the case of misdirection. With all these limitations, once again, we experience that in our order there is already the figure of the provocative agent. I recall, once again, that this figure is to be distinguished from the undercover agent in the technical or paratechnical terms in which we often refer to these figures. The undercover agent is the one who doesn't put himself in charge of the crime commission, but who infiltrates the organizations. In the case of corruption, we would like to introduce that this always happens under the coordination of prosecutors, but without causing the crime. We have been told, however, that this figure is not compatible, that it takes time. The government has approved an agenda for crimes against the public administration with regard to the undercover agent, but we discover that for almost a decade it has been in force in our system, albeit with the limits I have mentioned, a much stronger figure: that of the provocative agent. When we vote in favour of this bill, which specifically extends the non-criminal nature of service-provoking agents also to the new crimes we are introducing, we would like to recall this principle so that it applies on the next occasion when we talk about anti-corruption, and we will hear seemingly reasonable justifications that conflict with the possibility of being able to introduce an abstract figure of the criminal-provoking agent into our system. This figure already exists and any legal or paralegal justification in this respect will be disavowed by the current legal reality. Confirming the vote in favour of the 5 Star Movement, I repeat that our orientation is also determined by the increase in the minimum penalty for crimes of nuclear terrorism. The minimum of fifteen years has risen to twenty. This is another element of comfort that has overcome the concerns that we, as a Group, have had in choosing whether to vote for abstention or for the vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u29	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we agree with the ratification of the Convention and we would also agree with all the rules on prevention. We had only tabled amendments of a technical nature. Of these amendments, as you know, two have been accepted, but we must abstain from voting on this measure because the majority did not understand well and Senator Falanga repeated the mistake this morning. When it comes to technical problems, we must not behave like this: I think there is no doubt about interpretation. No. When it emerges in the debate, in the Commission or in the Assembly, the possibility of a different interpretation or application, it is the task of the legislator to find solutions that avoid that distorted or dubious application by the judges. If every time we leave to the judges ample space for an interpretation different from what we think most correct, it means that we have not done our duty. The question which, through our amendment, had raised and explained my colleague Senator Palma, posed a problem in relation to the first article, in particular with regard to the application of the external competition. We may not agree with that and we can argue with it, but we need to find a solution to avoid the possibility of a different application from that desired by the majority. To this end, we have tabled amendment 4.8, at my first signature, and I hope that the House of Members will correct the text of the measure, because as it is written it leads to the absurd and abnormal consequence that a thief who commits a theft of any object or money subject to seizure will be sentenced to the sentence of six years imprisonment, without there being written anywhere what purpose could justify such a penalty. This is a purpose which - as a case may be - the same penal code provides for any kind of subject subject subject to seizure. In the event that such things are taken away, if there is no purpose, the purpose of terrorism cannot be taken into account, which concerns the justification of the seizure and certainly not the purpose of the action of the thief. On these issues there are some technical aspects, the correct consideration of which would have allowed the adoption of the measure unanimously and would have solved problems and doubts of application and interpretation. I believe that from this experience we should draw the hope that from now on, the majority and the government, in particular, will behave differently. We cannot be linked to the fact that, since the text has been approved by the House of Deputies, it must be adopted in the same wording, because this will immediately be adopted definitively. This is not in the logic and the good rule of adopting rules that have their effectiveness. All the lawyers write that if the rule is not clear, there is no possibility of having certainty of interpretation. Beware that there is no legal certainty among the causes of crime, which is also based on the predictability of judges' decisions. Each citizen should have the possibility to predict how the judge will apply the rule. Only in this way can the fundamental principles on the subject of mandatory and equality of citizens be implemented in practice. These are the reasons why we abstain in this vote, although we share the reasons for the approval of ratification and the rules underlying it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u32	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our country there is a full awareness that the fight against terrorism is a dramatic challenge. Since the Second World War we have developed this awareness together, in a tragic way, in our cultural and social code. We have understood that terrorism is not a joke, that underestimating the phenomenon is a serious mistake. We have also understood that it is necessary to unite the country and equip our system with adequate instruments to strike the terrorist organization. Thanks to the cultural and social complex of participation and the ability to intervene, both preventively and repressively, we have won and we have overcome a very difficult season, marked by murders, by barbaric murders, but also by the capacity for democratic, choral, strong and qualified reaction of our democracy. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a new phase in the fight against terrorism; a global terrorism that is able to intervene on our territories, but also at the same time in different theatres, far from us. It is religious terrorism, the one led by ISIS, that radical terrorism, which has built a dense network of relationships, capable of using modern technologies, capable of intervening in social hardship and, in a perverse way, collecting consensus and motivating action; able to structure itself not only at the organizational level, we would say, at the criminal level, associative, but also by activating individuals, individual terrorists to action even terrifying, as we have seen both in Paris, and in Brussels, and in Tunis and in the various actions that have led in that sort of way of the Cross that we have all learned, alas, dramatically, to know. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also understood that in the face of this terrorism, territorial and global at the same time, capable of acting on modern technologies and capable of sinking the blow in a devastating way also on the military level, able to attend the living rooms of high finance and, at the same time, to enter into the most peculiar social discomfort in our neighborhoods, in the neighbourhoods of the cities of Europe, we must act in an integrated way. Certainly in a preventive way, other than; in a repressive way, other than. We must also act using different levers; the repressive one, which we are dealing with today, but also the cultural one, which I would never wish to be neglected, on a territorial and global level, with a coordination that has made progress, but which is still completely inadequate. That is why our government at European level has called for more courage, more speed, more understanding and more integration on the side of the common anti-terrorist area, as well as on the anti-mafia area. Ladies and gentlemen, with this measure we place another piece of legislation on the whole and varied criminal system to combat terrorism. Many names provided for in the international conventions under consideration, which I recall are five, are already present in our code. Some are daughters, as I mentioned earlier, of our tragic and successful fight against internal terrorism; others we have included as we acted against new terrorism. In this draft law two new and important cases are struck: first of all, there is the crime of financing conduct for purposes of terrorism, in addition to being internal to the association or participation also through the jurisprudential institute of the external competition. Leaded already punished in our penal code by article 270-a. To this new case, typical of radical terrorism, we have also given a new answer and so we have intervened when we take away goods or money that have been seized. Another "hole" that is finally filled. It also intervenes when the confiscation of things that served or were destined to commit crime was arranged and perhaps, then, in the end, they did not achieve this goal. However, those assets are taken away; those assets are taken away from terrorism and recovered from the action of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, we also had a heated debate during our parliamentary work. We have said no on a number of matters raised in a presumptuous way. Other issues that had not been raised in the Justice Commission were put forward in this House with a sometimes untechnical and very instrumental focus. The technical questions raised were answered with pleasure. I am thinking, for example, of the request to increase the penalties for the crime of nuclear terrorism. We had no difficulty at all. As we intervene on the regulatory level we will understand the genuine attention paid to rigour, rather than the instrumental one, as has often been the case during the examination of other measures. We prefer to find the reasons for sharing and thank those opposition forces who have understood the value of the measure under consideration and on which they are preparing to vote in favour today. We do not understand who, on the other hand, chooses another way because we believe that it is very spoiled by an attention that is political rather than merit. In the fight against terrorism, to be conducted together, the reasons for unity must always prevail, as is the case in this measure, which the Democratic Party supports and votes favourably. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u35	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u36	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2223, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The draft law No 1662 is therefore absorbed. Having to debate eleven draft laws ratifying international agreements, I would ask the rapporteurs and those who will take the floor to limit the duration of the speeches to the maximum. I would also like to point out that the delivery of the written text is very welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u37	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1331. The rapporteur, Senator Zin, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying and implementing the Agreement of mutual administrative assistance in customs matters between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Mexican United States, with an annex, made in Rome on 24 October 2011. The Agreement, which consists of 23 articles, a preamble and an annex, favours administrative cooperation between the two countries in customs matters and establishes the commitment of the parties to provide mutual assistance and cooperation in order to ensure the correct application of their respective laws and improve the actions for the detection and repression of violations. The Agreement regulates the modalities for the communication and exchange of information and describes the type of information concerned. The provision of assistance between the two customs authorities is established, with particular reference to the transmission of documents, with a commitment of special surveillance on persons and goods that are presumed to be involved in violations of customs regulations. The Agreement also regulates cases in which assistance may be refused; sets out the criteria for allocating expenditure between the parties and defines the territorial scope of application and the case-law of dispute settlement. The conclusion of the Agreement has become necessary in order to have a complete legal framework in the context of the fight against customs fraud, in which all forms of administrative cooperation in the customs field have been linked between their respective administrations. The Agreement will make it possible to ensure a more correct application of the respective customs legislation; to strengthen the means of combating fraud; to combat illicit drug trafficking; to facilitate and simplify the customs procedures connected with each legitimate transaction, making trade more transparent and less burdensome the task of operators. The measure regulates the development of direct and immediate relations between the Italian Customs and Monopolies Agency and the Mexican customs administration with a view to achieving the objectives set. The intervention has many advantages, such as that of regulating in a schematic and certain way the exchanges between the two countries, currently not regulated. Direct recipients, i.e. customs administrations, will be able to benefit from greater bilateral cooperation, with the consequent positive effects on prevention activities. In the same way, indirect recipients, i.e. economic operators, will benefit from facilitations and simplifications related to customs procedures for every legitimate transaction and greater transparency in trade activities between the two countries. The draft ratification law consists of four articles. The economic burden arising from this Agreement (Article 3), valued at 17,800 euros per year from 2016, shall be reduced by the corresponding allocation of the registered Special Current Party Fund, for the purposes of the 2016-2018 three-year budget. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national law, European law and other international obligations entered into by our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u39	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u40	Mr President, I am speaking only in order to anticipate our vote in favour in the general debate and to say that finally, six years late, we come to the adoption of this measure: it was urgent six years ago, let alone now!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u41	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u42	Mr President, I shall vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u43	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u44	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1334. The working rapporteur, Senator Sangalli, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u45	, f. f. Mr President, draft law No 1334 deals with the ratification and implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Republic of Angola on security and public order, done in Luanda on 19 April 2012. I am replacing the rapporteur, Mr De Cristofaro, in this role and I would ask that the written text of my speech be given in order to be annexed to the report of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u46	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Sangalli. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u47	Mr President, I refer to what was said in the Commission about the content of this measure, on which my Group voted in favour in advance.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u48	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I recall that Senator Stucchi announced his vote in favour of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u51	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, I only speak to declare our vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u54	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, I have not been able to speak in the Commission, so I am speaking in this House, and I hope you do not mind. The Agreement under discussion regulates technical cooperation and mutual assistance in the field of security and public order; it involves police forces in the fight against transnational crime and terrorism. The definition of the Entente has become necessary in order to achieve a bilateral cooperation on security well structured and more corresponding to the current needs of the two countries, strengthening the bilateral relations between Italy and Angola for the development and protection of strategic interests. In the Agreement there is a reference to cooperation for the identification and readmission of citizens in an irregular position, speeding up and facilitating the expulsion from the country in which he illegally stops, which obviously goes in the direction of the proposals made by the 5 Star Movement in the matter of migratory flows. Angola, since the end of the civil war in 2002, thanks to ambitious programmes implemented with the help of international partners, has been able to enter the core of the most dynamic economies at the African level, recording double-digit growth rates over the last decade. Half of the national wealth comes from oil and this depends, for the most part, on long-term development expectations. The production of black gold has experienced an authentic boom since the beginning of the new millennium, from 800,000 barrels a day to the current 1.8 million, making Angola the second African producer of crude oil after Nigeria and the sixteenth worldwide. GDP grew significantly from 3.4% in 2003 to 20% in 2007. The Angolan economy is one of the few in the world that has had such growth. GDP per capita rose from $700 in 2002 to $5,700 this year. Inflation, which in 2002 (the year of the first signing of the peace agreements) was 105%, has been reduced to 7%, and hopefully can still be reduced in the current year. Despite this, the country still has too many dark points on the road to a full democratic condition: freedom of the press and speech still too limited, tensions never endured with the military groups protagonists of the civil war, corruption and widespread nepotism. It is necessary, however, to give confidence to this new reality and to support efforts for a safer country. We therefore believe that mutual assistance policies for police cooperation are important in order to maintain stability in the country and, moreover, to speed up the return practices of Angolans illegally resident in Italy. I therefore declare our vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u55	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u56	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1605. The rapporteur, Senator Pegorer, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u57	Mr President, this Agreement aims to strengthen cooperation between Italy and Cape Verde and mutual assistance in combating transnational organized crime and international terrorism. The areas of cooperation provided for in the Agreement are, inter alia, illegal drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, smuggling of migrants and international terrorism. The draft law consists of four articles. Mr President, I would ask you to be able to attach the report to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u58	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u59	Mr President, in anticipating the vote in favour of this measure, I would just like to remind you that in this country there are indeed some problems that are resolved by this measure. These are issues that concern both countries.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u60	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Senator Stucchi, in the general discussion, announced his vote in favour of the measure under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u63	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, I repeat how important this ratification agreement is. The Republic of Cape Verde is an important crossroads for international drug trafficking and a place of interest for transnational criminal organisations. From there, many human-trafficking boatmen leave. For these reasons, the establishment of this legal instrument, aimed at regulating cooperation between their respective police authorities, allows these trafficking to be partially blocked at source.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u66	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in expressing the 5 Star Movement's vote in favour of this draft ratification law, it states that, in principle, we are always in favour of agreements which attempt to combat transnational crimes and, above all, terrorism. The hope is that Parliament will look more closely at these issues and that, above all, the international bodies of which Italy is a member will also do so. Therefore, I declare the 5 Star Movement's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u67	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u68	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1661. The working rapporteur, Senator Corsini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u69	, f. f. Mr President, I am honored to replace Senator Comrade, in fact, the very clear Professor Comrade. I would ask the Presidency to allow the report to be appended to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u70	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u71	Mr President, as Senator Corsini said, the rapporteur in the Commission has very well explained the measure. Therefore, it is unnecessary to repeat the contents of the same in this House and I speak only to express my support for its approval.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u72	The general debate is closed. Colleagues, since a Group has called for a meeting to be held at 12 o'clock, it would be appropriate to conclude our work for that time. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I recall that Senator Stucchi has already announced his vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u75	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, in approving the ratification of this Agreement in 2012 in Yerevan, the Armenian city famous these days also for the visit of His Holiness, let us not forget that Armenia is a member of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership, that forum for regular consultation, coordination and dialogue between NATO and its external partners, and has signed since 1994 the NATO programme called the Partnership for Peace. Therefore, the fact that this agreement develops and regulates bilateral cooperation between the Armed Forces of the two countries, with the aim of consolidating their defensive capacities and improving security cooperation, says a lot, because surely, if this had been done a hundred years ago, there would not have been the terrible misfortune that struck the Armenian people.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u78	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, the agreement we are going to ratify falls within the category of bilateral pacts aimed at consolidating and increasing military cooperation between states as much as possible. In a few words, continue to arm the world so that conflicts always resolve with the same methodology, war, thus ensuring the usual known to continue to be enriched (i.e. the war industries), it is absolutely not part of that operation that Italy should carry out in defense of the weakest and especially the civilian population. There is no point in approving this Parliament's agreements with other instruments, such as diplomacy, and, in this particular case, it was precisely this that we had to aim for in the agreements with Armenia. In fact, in this country we still do not understand that, if we do not start talking about a new model of defense, a model absolutely sustainable and compatible with the characteristics of Armenia, this system is destined to go down. This is also demonstrated by the fact that we will soon be voting on yet another extension of the missions, for which Italy invests approximately 1.4 billion euros. We are convinced that we must also draw inspiration from agreements of this kind in order to try to change them, starting to talk about a defence that is truly sustainable and to protect the civilian populations; not called for to attack, as in ratifications of this type. Therefore, the vote of the 5 Star Movement will be consciously and intentionally opposed. All I can do, Mr President, is to stigmatize the behaviour of the representative of the Government, but also of the rapporteurs, who have not even lent themselves to read the report on the measure, which could have allowed colleagues to understand what we are voting on at the moment. I understand the speed of some votes but it is important, on occasions like these, to enter into the substance of the issues and to open a debate in the place responsible for this: the Italian Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u81	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this agreement, which is signed between two countries, which is also military. We are well aware that, in many circumstances, military agreements are absolutely essential in order to develop appropriate political relations and international relations. In this case it is a collaboration agreement with a friendly country to which we provide support in a particularly delicate area of the world. Italy's role is to intervene in order to promote the attainment of conditions that enable peace to be established and to help peace processes. That is why we are voting in favour of this measure, which is very much discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u82	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u83	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1946. The rapporteur, Senator Micheloni, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u84	Mr President, before handing over the written report, allow me two comments: Mr Falanga spoke this morning of Parliament's delay in ratifications. I would like to repeat what has already been said here in this House: it is not Parliament that is late on ratifications, but the concert of the various ministries and this is a problem that has been going on for years; therefore, before saying that we are late we should consider that as soon as the ratifications arrive in the Commission, they are dealt with immediately and brought to this House. Let's just say the way it is. [[Comments of Senator Falanga]] Then, Mr President, you know how much I appreciate your way of presiding over our House. I can understand the rush, but we almost always notice this rush when it comes to ratifications of international agreements and going in a hurry just a few hours after the debate that took place on Brexit does not seem to me to be a positive sign. I think it is necessary for this House to be aware of the ratifications and not just the Foreign Affairs Committee, which is trying to do a good job. I hope I have made the President sufficiently nervous to read only two paragraphs of the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u85	The President does not get nervous, it is the rest of his Group that must respond.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u86	Mr Micheloni, rapporteur. The draft law before us deals with the ratification and implementation of the following agreements: the first is a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and the Republic of Iraq on the other with annexes, made in Brussels on 11 May 2012. The second is a Framework Agreement for Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and the Republic of the Philippines on the other, made in Phnom Penh on 11 July 2012. I will not read the whole report, but these agreements cover a great many issues. Even the one with Iraq, which has 124 articles, ranges from political dialogue, trade relations, development aid, a number of sectoral areas, the environment, energy, education, culture and human rights. More or less the same is contained in the agreement with the Philippines. Mr President, I would ask that the report be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u87	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Next time, Senator Micheloni, I want you to play your role at the Commission desk. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u88	Mr President, Mr Micheloni is right: it is not a problem of parliamentary assemblies but of a majority government, which from 2011 to 2012 is homogeneous, equal to today's. The call must be made to the government and certainly not to the parliamentary assemblies. This is the first agreement that we are voting on after the particular situation caused by Brexit, because the ratification process involves all parliaments, including the United Kingdom. It will be a test case and there is the possibility of verifying whether this agreement will actually enter into force for all other countries or whether there will be different procedures with regard to agreements already in progress. As far as the content of the measure is concerned, it has been sufficiently explained in the Commission and I believe it is fully acceptable from the point of view of its aims. Of course, we expect good intentions to follow the results. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u89	Mr President, a few weeks ago, on the occasion of the previous round of ratifications, Senator D'Alì pointed out that it is not appropriate to include in a single ratification measure any uneven agreements. What does the agreement with the Philippines have to do with the agreement with Iraq? It seems to me that both countries have specific features and there is no reason to vote together on the two agreements. Senator D'Alì's words, to which other colleagues also associated, have not been heard. I would like to remind the Government at this point that the next time you submit to us a measure of this kind we will present a question for a preliminary ruling. Today we are in favour of both agreements, but we would not want the most heterogeneous issues to be put together one day and, consequently, to say no to the agreement with a country that is dangerous for international security, perhaps we should say no to an agreement with Switzerland or Denmark. We would like to avoid this, so it is better to prevent than to repress. Next time we will present a question for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u90	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Senator Malan, you absolutely agree with me. Therefore, we will vote on Article 1 by separate parts, distinguishing point (a) from point (b) automatically. We shall now proceed to the vote on point (a) of Rule 1. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the draft law n. 1946 PRESIDENT. I put Article 1 (a) to the vote. It's approved. I put Article 1 (b) to the vote. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 as a whole. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 1 as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u93	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would just like to confirm the vote in favour of the Northern League Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u96	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, first of all I would like to say to Senator Micheloni that I feel rather distracted in listening to the speeches in this House, because I have never referred to Parliament's delay, but to that of the country; moreover, I did not go to identify the responsibilities for the delay in the case of Mr Tizio or Mr Caio, that body or that other body: obviously, we are talking about the delay in our entire parliamentary, regulatory system, including the ministries of the various governments that happen. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] It almost seems to me that every time you want to find the hair in the egg (to counter what, then, I did not understand), so in this there are superficiality and inattention on the part of my colleague Micheloni. Apart from the answer to this controversy, I should rather like to talk about the ratifications under consideration. Senator Malan made a remark about the heterogeneity of the ratification measures under the same bill. Senator Malan, as a jurist I certainly share this observation and context of this normative technique, but we are so accustomed that it has now become normative jurisprudence to include in a bill the most varied and disarticulated subjects. In this particular case, we in the AL-A Group vote in favour, even if we have some problems. Mr President, this framework agreement was concluded in Phnom Penh and I do not know whether colleagues know that it is the capital of the Philippines. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u97	Senator Falanga, do the courtesy! FALANGA (AL-A). Senator Milo, you never intervene... Senator Falanga, if you make your explanation of vote you don't address me, I'll take your word for it. FALANGA (AL-A). I am making an explanation of vote and you, Mr President, should have the attention to silence or reproach those colleagues who, even though they have not had the floor, interrupt my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't provoke them, and they won't interrupt you. FALANGA (AL-A). I urge you to look at this more closely. I was saying I'm worried about you. This framework agreement has also been concluded by the United Kingdom, but with Brexit it has come out of the European Union, so this is another problem that perhaps Italy and Europe should pose. Beyond that, it is a partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union, its Member States and the Republic of the Philippines and we believe that when there are cooperation agreements there can only be a favourable opinion and therefore an urge to ensure that there is maximum cooperation between the peoples of Europe and beyond. I therefore declare the AL-A Group's vote in favour of the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u98	[[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u99	For the record and to restore a proper geographical location, Phnom Penh is the capital of Cambodia and not of the Philippines. [[Applause. Ironic comments.]] I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u100	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2288, already approved by the House of Deputies. [[Brusio]] Anyone want to go out early today? The rapporteur, Senator Zin, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u101	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the Agreement, already approved by the House of Deputies, of association between the European Union and the six Central American countries (Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama), considered as an integrated regional entity. These countries have signed a political dialogue and cooperation agreement with the European Union since December 2003 and constitute a specific integrated regional entity called the Central American Common Market, which began in 1960. The Agreement, already ratified by the six countries concerned, is in line with the European Union's objective of consolidating regional integration in other parts of the world. The Agreement consists, in addition to the preamble, of 363 Articles, 21 Annexes, Declarations and a Protocol on cultural cooperation. In particular, the volume of Annex 1 devoted to customs duties, which alone covers almost 1,700 pages, is noted. The first part (Articles 1 to 11), devoted to the general provisions, defines the institutional framework for the management of the Agreement, providing (Article 4) for the creation of an Association Council, composed of ministerial representatives of the States Parties. Part Two (Articles 12 to 23) covers the profiles of political dialogue between the European Union and Central America, including disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (Articles 14 and 15), terrorism (Article 16) and cooperation in environmental and fiscal matters. The third part of the Agreement (Articles 24 to 76) covers the various aspects of cooperation in the field of justice, security and social development. The efforts to reduce poverty and social exclusion, as well as initiatives in the fields of education, health and the protection of indigenous peoples (Article 45) should also be noted. With regard to migration, Article 49 provides for cooperation between the parties on the different profiles of the subject, starting from the status of refugees and including criminals such as trafficking in human beings. The fourth part of the Agreement (Articles 77 to 351) is devoted to trade, providing for the creation of a free trade area (Article 77), in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation (Article 78), the reduction of tariff barriers and not to trade. The duration of the Agreement is unlimited. The bill of ratification, made in Tegucigalpa on June 29, 2012, consists of five articles. The economic charges (Article 3, paragraph 1) for Italy are valued in approximately 20,160 euros annually from 2016.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u102	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u103	Mr President, I would like to say that we agree with the rapporteur and with what he said in the Commission. If you allow me, in the explanation of vote, I will give you the written text containing the reasons why we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u104	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. As the rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply, we proceed to the examination of the articles, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Senator Stucchi has asked in general discussion to be able to deliver the text of his explanation of vote, so that it can be published in the Reports of today's sitting. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u107	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this agreement between the European Union and six Central American countries: Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama. I would like to stress that this is an agreement that enhances the democratic principles of the countries involved and favours trade. This is therefore an important agreement, signed in the capital of Honduras.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u108	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u109	Mr President, the draft law before us, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies, brings about the ratification and enforcement of the extradition and judicial assistance treaties signed by Italy and the Republic of Kosovo in June 2013. The Extradition Treaty commits the parties to surrender to each other the persons prosecuted or convicted by the judicial authorities of the other State for the purpose of carrying out the trial and the execution of the sentence. The second text before us, the Treaty on Legal Aid in Criminal Matters, is aimed at promoting bilateral cooperation relations, which are currently not governed by any agreement. The draft law ratifying the two Treaties consists of four articles. I therefore ask for permission to hand over the report, so that it can be annexed to the Reports of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u110	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u111	Mr President, at this stage I just want to point out and point out that this measure recognises the legal subjectivity and political credibility of Kosovo, which we do not intend to do. That is why we shall be voting against this measure. I therefore request that the written text of the Group's explanation of vote against be submitted to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u112	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I am voting for separate parts of Article 1 because the two letters refer to the two different Treaties. I put Article 1 (a) to the vote. It's approved. I put Article 1 (b) to the vote. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 as a whole. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I recall that Senator Stucchi, while anticipating a contrary approach, forewarned that he wanted to deposit the speech in an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u115	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, of course we are voting in favour and we cannot understand the intervention of some of our colleagues, who do not vote in favour of a treaty in which the two Contracting States undertake to extradite those who have been sentenced by the judicial authorities of the other State, with reciprocity in the surrender of criminals, in order to carry out the trial and the execution of the sentence. It is true that there are still some sixty countries, including Russia, China and India, and for the European Union, Spain and Greece, which have not recognised Kosovo but this is an approach to the Union which inevitably passes through the solution of the issue of its international status and the progressive improvement of relations with Serbia. We therefore believe that this is a necessary ratification if we do not want to make this State a place where there is a privileged refuge for those who may delinquency in Italy and go to refuge in a State where there is no possibility of extradition. My group will therefore vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u117	You have the right to do so. I remember finishing the ratifications. I have access to the early conclusion of the sitting, but we must all try to be cooperative.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u118	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Do what you think is appropriate, even if we had asked for an hour and therefore, the other two ratifications could be postponed to the afternoon or no work in the afternoon? I think we're here, right? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can also proceed, if anyone is against it, until closing. BERTOROTTA (M5S). I just wanted to say that the law of the strongest reigns in Kosovo. The Cold War with neighbouring countries has raised generations of fighters and has been fertile ground for the formation of fighting organizations first and then criminal groups. Nationalist sentiment is very strong and, as a result, the problem of Serbian minorities who have been severely persecuted and forced to leave the region is strong. Illegal trafficking in arms, drugs, human beings and parts of them are very active. With regard to this Treaty, I repeat that the 5 Star Movement considers it essential to promote useful forms of cooperation in the field of criminal judicial assistance. For these reasons, my Group will support these two international agreements and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u119	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u122	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). I was wrong to vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u123	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1730. The rapporteur, Senator Sangalli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u124	The countries of the European Union and the African countries that are considered are obviously different countries. In this case, we are not discussing different subjects and we would like to bring together all the Central African countries and the European Union on this treaty. I would ask that the report be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting and that we have no problem with the consistency of the document.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u125	The Presidency takes note of this. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u126	As has already been said on other occasions, we share the spirit of this Agreement and therefore also advance the vote in favour of the Group of the North League.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u127	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u128	We shall now proceed to the final vote. I recall the favourable orientation preannounced by Senator Stucchi and I note the favourable orientation of Senator Barani. (Senator Barani nods).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u131	BERTOROTTA (M5S). I preannunciation of the vote against this measure and request that the written text of my speech in the explanation of vote be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u132	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u133	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1732. The rapporteur, Senator Sangalli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u134	Mr President, I would ask that the written text of my speech on this agreement between Italy and the Republic of Angola be annexed to the report of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u135	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u136	Mr President, this is the natural follow-up to the draft law No 1334, which was adopted just now, and hence the North League Group's explanation of vote in advance.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u137	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I recall the vote in favour announced by Senator Stucchi and I take note of Senator Barani's vote in favour. (Senator Barani nods).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u140	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, I take the wrong approach to this and declare my vote against the measure. I would ask that the written text of my speech be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u141	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. [[The request is supported. Senator Ciampolillo points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Ciampollo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u142	Mr President, as you know, the smart cards, the states, are being fired within 48 hours. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I'd like to figure out where Vice President Gasparri is, since his card's been in since this morning. Will you please let us know? If so, it would be better to remove your card, as well as that of all those who are not here.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u143	I charge the Senators Secretary to remove the cards of the Senators not present in the Chamber. (Senator Secretary Saggese removes Senator Gasparri's card.) I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u144	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2309, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Fattorini, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u145	Mr President, before I leave the text of my speech to the record, I would like to briefly explain what this is all about. The Convention was signed in 2015 and constitutes the first bilateral agreement on the exchange of information in tax matters signed by the Vatican with another country; therefore it is important. The text is in line with the process, which has been in place for several years at international level, of strengthening transparency in financial relations and follows, like many other treaties signed by our country, the model convention of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The exchange of information shall cover the tax period from 1 January 2009. On the subjects, the people and the legal bodies and the detailed reference to the written text of my speech, which I request is attached to the Reports of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u146	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Fattorini. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u147	Mr President, everything has already been said in the Commission. I would just add that our Group has also voted in favour of the House and I would ask that the text of my final explanation of vote be annexed to the reports of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u148	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Stucchi. The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the final vote. I remember the vote in favour announced by Senator Stucchi and I take note of the one announced by Senator Barani. (Senator Barani nods). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u149	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2026. The rapporteur, Senator Pegorer, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u150	Mr President, the agreement concerns the multilateral force established in 1998 between Slovenia, Hungary and Italy. The aim of the measure in our examination is to update the previous agreement establishing the military force, harmonizing it to the changed operational and training needs and the changes that have since taken place at international level, strengthening the military cooperation of the three countries within the framework of their common membership of the European Union and NATO. The draft ratification law consists of five articles. I would ask for permission to hand over the written text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u151	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Pegorer. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u152	Mr President, this measure should be dealt with in depth, but I believe that this has been done properly in the Commission. Unfortunately, time doesn't help us. The measure has some important contents and for this reason I believe it is acceptable. I therefore put forward our Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u153	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u156	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to say briefly that this agreement concerns our glorious Alpine brigade, Julia, who has been employed in Kosovo and Afghanistan (as part of the ISAF mission), where she has distinguished herself. That is why we guarantee our vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u159	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I rise to declare the 5 Star Movement's vote against, mainly because this is yet another proof that there is more behind phantom humanitarian operations. If we go to read the memorandum, it turns out that here we want to make a military defense, weapons, training and deployments for dissuasive purposes, which are often masked attacks. This means war and for this reason the 5 Star Movement will vote firmly no.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u160	I remember Senator Stucchi's vote in favour. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-647.ana.u161	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.13 a.m.
