ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 17 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.32).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u6	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would like to point out that Senator Ivo Butini has been missing in recent days. He was an important Florentine, he worked for a long time with the then President of the Council Amintore Fanfani and then with Mr Forlani. He has been a regional adviser and has been a senator for three legislatures in this House. State Secretary for Industry, then for Foreign Affairs in two successive Governments, his was a personality, as pointed out by his political opponents of the time, who honored the city of Florence and the Republican institutions. It was a great Christian Democrat who I believe is right, even in a delicate sitting like today, to remember in the House of Palazzo Madama. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u9	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I think that in this House we are all delegates to protect the interests of our country, and it is our country's interest to be energy-efficient. Last night, in the broadcast "Report" on RAI 3, we noticed a fierce attack on a country, Azerbaijan, with which we have established important commercial, as well as energy relations, that put our country away from any kind of risk of energy shortage. Who could see that transmission, heard partial news, unilateral statements, erroneous footage of international resolutions. The UN resolutions on the Armenian-Azero conflict say the exact opposite of what was supported in that transmission. We believe that information cannot be given in this way; that we cannot interview Members of this Parliament and then cut them down and paste them in such a way that the final meaning is even distorted. If you want to stop an important work, which guarantees the energy independence of our country, you do so politically in this Assembly, but not with distorted information, even on state television. As President of the Interparliamentary Group on Friendship Italy-Azerbaijan, I express the utmost indignation and strong protest in this Assembly. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, since the Budget Committee has not yet completed its work on Decree-Law No 189, which provides for interventions in favour of the people affected by the earthquake of 24 August 2016, I suspend the sitting until 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.36 p.m. and resumed at 18.03.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u11	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2567. The rapporteur, Senator Lai, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we come to this House after three weeks of intensive work on this issue. Here I would like to thank the political groups, my fellow Senators of the Budget Commission, for their efforts to ensure that the time taken to examine the measure is as fast as possible, while respecting the need - imponderable for all - to respond concretely to the urgent needs and prospects of the communities of the regions so badly affected by the succession of those dramatic and violent earthquakes. We had to connect two very serious seismic events, spaced over time and with different characteristics, so much so that the Government - which I thank for supporting the work of the Commission - was forced to issue two separate decree-laws, which we have brought back to synthesis with the measure that we are now facing. I cannot fail to point out, therefore, the positive climate in which all the political forces present in the Budget Commission have contributed, the groups that have participated, even beyond the representations in the Commission, and all the fellow senators who have taken this issue to heart, or because they are resident in those regions or because they are affected by the tragedy of those populations. It is a positive climate that has led to a shared debate and to the adoption of some 25 amendments to a very complete text. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u13	I apologise, rapporteur. I would ask the House to lower its voice because it is difficult to follow the presentation of this bill. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u14	Mr Lai, rapporteur. I was saying, a very strong contribution from all political forces, which allowed to unanimously approve 25 amendments to the texts of the first and second decree-laws, which became a single provision to allow all the rules provided by the Government to be improved and made immediately operational by the conversion into law of this decree-law. The first decree-law, which tried to give structure to the emergency and reconstruction, concerned the municipalities of the first crater; therefore, the first earthquake was called of Amatrice because the epicenter was in that small village so famous. The second decree-law completed the interventions of the first, taking note of a second earthquake that extended in an extraordinary way, unfortunately, the territory hit by both earthquakes. This particular condition has led to an assessment by the political groups of the need to approve together the changes to the provision and the opportunity - which I represent in this House - to work in these hours so that this decree-law can be converted without further amendment by the Assembly, if not shared by all the groups. That would be an important signal, which would indeed confirm the great work done in the Commission by all the groups. I think that we must all make an effort together to achieve this result, to give a signal of unity to those populations already hard hit and now also subjected to a delicate and difficult climate condition, standing in the mountains. The first decree-law was considered by all to be very positive. We were represented by Commissioner Errani, appointed by the Government, and by the vice commissioners, presidents of the Regions, as a measure that had the strong ambition to respond, through a single legislative instrument, to the many issues that an earthquake like that posed; many issues that, unfortunately, the experience of previous earthquakes has seen accumulated through numerous successive legislative overlaps and that instead in that decree-law were immediately taken into consideration. With the second decree-law there were also elements of debate of those first days, already intervening on the populations affected by the first earthquake, taking into account that in that territory the "factory," the one that must leave first, is the agri-food system, the system of parks, the environmental system. It is the productive system linked to the earth and the environment that must start immediately. Therefore, immediate measures have been envisaged to assist workers working in the countryside, giving them the possibility not to leave the productions, but to restart immediately, not to leave for a moment the resources at their disposal and on which they worked. Similarly, with the second decree-law, he intervened immediately to allow the school system to be an element of cohesion and to be able to share without dividing the communities, with the exceptionality necessary when similar issues are brought to our attention. The set of two decree-laws has a few key words: the speed of intervention, the idea of integrated interventions, interventions that guarantee security (the third password) in transparency (the fourth password) and legality (the fifth password). The idea is that this decree-law, this intervention that we propose to the Assembly and that the Government has prepared, represents a bet: making it possible to repeat good practice, good experience. And here are two who build this decree-law. One is the bet to repeat the good reconstruction made in Emilia-Romagna: a positive example, an example that has taken into account the idea that, in order to maintain the communities, one must start from putting them in the conditions that the economic and social fabric survives the trauma of the earthquake and can immediately restart the economy, which keeps the populations. The second good practice, considered exemplary for this decree-law, is the supervision of the contracts necessary for the reconstruction, which are borrowed from the Expo experience. Well, these two coordinates, the positive experience of the earthquake in Emilia-Romagna and the positive experience of Expo, are the coordinates on which this decree-law is based, which tries to give an integrated and organic response to reconstruction. But there is a fundamental element that tries to give an inspiration, a spirit, a conscience to this reconstruction. The idea is that territories, already hard hit and fragile on the demographic level, which are rich in history, cultural excellence and also of agro-food excellence, however, we have an extremely weak economic and social fabric. For these territories, which already suffer from a weakness and a demographic fragility, it is as important as it is necessary to act with speed, constantly and at the same time on all sides in order to maintain people, businesses, guarantee a social structure, slow down the process of dispersion and depopulation. This process, in fact, in those territories, identical to all those of the internal areas of the Italian Regions, is becoming imposing dimensions. But people hold back if economic conditions are maintained, but even if families and young people are held back. In this decree-law, within this legislative initiative there is also this attention, this basic spirit: to try to slow down, to hold back, to reverse the process of demographic impoverishment, which is already in place in those territories. When we visited them, the mayors asked us, who have the opportunity to speak in public, to help them avoid being represented as territories from which one must stay away for fear. They feel similar to those Mediterranean territories that, after democratic revolutions, have unfortunately become countries from which to stay away. They even have this fear and ask us to be quick not only in the reconstruction, but also in transmitting to the country a message that you can resume going there, that there you have to help going, that there you have to help contributing to the local economy, being present, returning to be present, even just as tourists. It is a cry of alarm, because the fear of the population to return to those places (those who do not live there, who are not used to living with a land that shakes) is difficult to overcome and overcome with the example. That's what they asked us to do. They asked us: rebuild, but also reconstruct morally, rebuild with your presence, rebuild with your participation the image, the idea, the vocation of these territories. The measure in our examination strives to put first the maintenance of the integrity of this human and civil fabric because only if we maintain this integrity, if we maintain this hope, can we restore strength to the social and economic fabric. For the first time, with this decree-law, we intervene after an earthquake allowing not only the reconstruction of all the first houses but also, in the crater, of the second houses, and this is expected not only for architectural and urbanistic reasons - these are villages born and grown up with adjacent houses, which depend on each other in a solidarity way because the wall of one is the wall on the other, and they almost speak - but also because in those territories the depopulation due to the emigration of families that no longer found work, led to the becoming second houses those that were once first houses. Keeping families that own second homes within that territory is also a fundamental element for the integrity of that social and economic fabric, an indispensable element not only on the urbanistic level but more than anything at the level of the human integrity of these communities. For this reason the decree-law also intervenes on the second houses of the crater, totally financing its reconstruction. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u15	Excuse me, Senator, but given the importance of what you're saying, I ask everyone to lower their voices, perhaps even to the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u16	Mr Lai, rapporteur. Thank you, President. Even the second houses, those outside the crater, are totally supported the reconstruction, if rented as first houses or if they constitute an important cultural and artistic good and in any case it is supported the reconstruction, to the 50 percent, which did not happen after other earthquakes, just to give the feeling that it is rebuilt first of all the community, the fabric of relationships. We try to achieve, therefore, the objective of maintaining the social fabric of the institutions of the territory. Many of the interventions are aimed at allowing the mayors, who are the subjects to whom the populations turn, the closest representatives of the State, not to be unarmed and can act, can be supported both by the integration of technical-administrative staff in their support and with clear indications and concrete interventions able to give answers to the citizens. The measure is clear in the indications that mayors can give to their citizens to calm them and to maintain the bond with the territory, even if temporarily they have moved, to give them the hope that they will quickly return to live and produce in their communities. The holding of the mayors, for us, for the Commission that has worked and reasoned on it, is a fundamental element because, starting from that local institutional fabric, the holding of the human tissue is built as a further contribution. Then, as far as the economic fabric is concerned, we had, as I said at the beginning, a special focus on the agricultural sector. Mr Martina spoke quickly on this subject and the Commission has also worked on it further by extending the sectors, for example with an amendment which was adopted this morning on the equine sector which had been temporarily excluded. This amendment, tabled by a minority force in this Parliament, has been considered important. The economic fabric, not only for the agricultural and agri-food part, is kept in mind and for this reason there is a strong attention to allow temporary relocations of each commercial structure, provided that within the same municipality. This limit has been set in order to avoid that the movement of a commercial activity from one municipality to another, perhaps marginal compared to the crater, can constitute an element of unraveling of the fabric. The essential services, in fact, are not only those institutional but also those commercial ones and must be able to stay in those communities or be able to return as soon as possible. We therefore support, in the emergency, all the workers of companies. This morning we extended to employees from every subject, not just from companies, all the provisions provided for. We have proposed, with an amendment introduced by the Commission, the so-called heavy paycheck, that is, the possibility that for a few months the paycheck may be delivered before deduction. We have foreseen - and this is an important fact - that we can think not only of holding back existing small businesses or of better structuring and saving big ones, but also of making that economic fabric attractive, thanks to instruments that the national legislation, recently updated, has made available to crisis areas. It will be possible to establish in those territories the complex crisis areas that we have already foreseen for industrial areas throughout the national territory, areas that have weakened because the industrial vocation has changed. It is not a small element, it is an element that gives the idea that we want to invest to think of a model also industrial for territories that traditionally are internal areas and on which we have to think systemically. I would like to refer to the written text of the report which I request to be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Mr Lai, rapporteur. I conclude, Madam President, by pointing out that various political forces have pointed out to us the need to give space to the self-organization of citizens, namely that the initiatives of individuals who can resolve, even more quickly than the institutions, the conditions of distress of the earthquake victims and above all can give moral strength to the will to respond to such a serious and dramatic fact as an earthquake were not inhibited by rules. We thought that it was important to help and support them, considering it necessary not to include them in the decree-law, (so do not bind them, excluding the not foreseen cases), but to give a signal to the Commissioner that all the interventions of individuals could be foreseen in the ordinances, facilitated and supported. The self-organization of citizens represents for us, in this long reflection of three weeks, that vital element that remains when a body is weak, that gives the feeling that from there it can start life again. Above all, it is an example for those who may be more fragile and tend to depress their resources in the face of such a calamity. We have done this symbolically and to strengthen the will of individuals to believe first of all in their own resources, resources that the State must not inhibit, but must accompany, without blocking them, indeed favouring them. These are the aspects that I considered most important in terms of content, then, the technical aspects are much richer. The decree-law can also inspire the idea of stable state legislation in the face of disasters, in order to prevent people from finding themselves every time in a position to start over. If we were to think of a basis on which to grow stable and permanent legislation, this measure certainly represents it. Probably we need to reflect further, in particular on the issue of how to ensure the country's building heritage in the coming periods, knowing that we are not facing a land that will be seismically stable: all Italy is seismically unstable and is subjected, also for climate change, to possible devastation due to earthquakes or water, which can be disastrous. I therefore think that today's reflection and debate are important to make a contribution to this decree-law. I trust that the House will take a positive look at the Commission's work. I once again thank the political groups and the members of the Commission for their work and thank the House for its attention. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u17	I declare the general discussion open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary De Micheli and undersecretary Pizzetti, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the broad illustration that allows me and others to focus only on some of the aspects of the decree-law that we are going to deal with and the problems that we are going to face. Our Apennines is a land of earthquakes: dramatic earthquakes that follow in time. They let us breathe for a while, but then the ogre goes back to shouting, destroying and cutting off beautiful existences. He arrived at treason on August 24, in the dark of the night, at 3.36 am, and at treason he struck four Regions, killing many, too many people. He arrived early in the morning, waking up many people, on October 30, spreading in a vast area so much pain and destruction. He arrived on April 6, at my home, at 3.32, determining the flight, destruction and the recording of the loss of so many human lives. Yet, despite the earthquake continues to arrive, it always seems that we cannot overcome fatalism, indifference or the lack of conviction that the earthquake exists, arrives and, unfortunately, can kill. Now that we are more aware and understand more that it is not a contingent fact, but a stable fact of our beloved land, the response of the State must be firm, determined and enveloping. Thus, the two decree-laws that the Government immediately approved give strong and important answers. The work of the Budget Commission, which I have been able to follow thanks to the availability of colleagues I have been able to replace, has been profitable and the work of synthesis, not easy, between the two different measures has been important. Uniform, the maxi amendment, to the first decree-law, allows us to give a unique response to two dramatic moments. The contribution of the Government, all the Group Heads and all the members of the relevant Commission was important. The two decree-laws, summarized, give mature and advanced answers, some positively experienced in the earthquake of Abruzzo, others in the earthquake of Emilia and others completely innovative. We take advantage of mistakes, superficiality, wrong approaches and we already overcome, in the first instance, obstacles that, for example, in the difficult reconstruction of L'Aquila and Abruzzo, only in this legislature we were able to face and resolve, thanks also to the determination of the undersecretary De Micheli and the stubbornness of many of us and many administrators. I find the choice of overall reconstruction strong, determined and courageous. Of course, it is expensive, but how can a village, in its uniqueness, be subjected to a difference between first and second houses? Yet, this differentiation was made for the Abruzzo earthquake and this resulted in absurd delays, for many inexplicable. I take advantage of this opportunity to point out the problem and to indicate this, the decree-laws of 2016, as the main road for a good reconstruction of our Apennines. In so doing, the preparation of reconstruction programmes, the definition of aggregates, as well as the organic design of these complexes, will be faster. I do not hesitate to say, with hand cards, numbers and figures, that with these rules L'Aquila would be later in the reconstruction of at least three years. Important are the measures for the revival of economic activities, the significant one-off of 5,000 euros - which should not be reduced, because it is an important figure - extended to self-employed workers: in 2009 a compensation of 800 euros was provided for only three months. Important are also the social shock absorbers by way of derogation, the suspension of taxes and mortgages, the positive measures for agriculture, the specific forecast of a tourist project under the guidance of the competent Ministry and the identification of areas of complex crisis. Among other things, I am first signatory to a bill that proposes in the areas affected by the earthquake a Special Economic Zone (ZES), because these areas are also crossed by the presence of two important national parks, the National Park of Gran Sasso and Monti della Laga and the National Park of Monti Sibillini. They are areas of great landscape interest, sources of extraordinary quality of food products, medieval villages, all this constitutes wealth and a tourist-economic brand that we cannot and must not give up. The school measures are positive. I am referring not only to the choice of modules for temporary school use (MUSP) in Abruzzo and then in Emilia, but also to measures for staff, for full time and for the idea of open schools, which at a time of social disintegration are instead a reference point for many children, for many children and their families. There are many predictions and effective responses because there has been a careful selection of the successful choices of the past, discarding those not positive. The crater or, better, the craters, include numerous municipalities in Abruzzo, fourteen, including the great city of Teramo, and then Campotosto, Montereale and Capitignano, in the Province of L'Aquila, and Rocca Santa Maria, Valle Castellana, Cortino, Crognaleto and other municipalities in the Province of Teramo. They are all villages, understood as municipalities, perched on the Gran Sasso. I do not hide that I would have liked the inclusion of other municipalities in the province of Teramo, but I trust what the Government has said, which has argued that, if scientific data were to emerge that would induce the Government and the commissioners to make a proposal, the same will be examined on time. The identification, among other things, has been rightly done in concert between the State and the Region, with an important role of the vice commissioners. This is also to be noted in relation to past experiences. It should also be noted that the municipalities and the mayors have direct and immediate powers, even in the choice of areas: far away are the times of the commissioners who replaced the local authorities as a whole. I therefore welcome the many forecasts. The Abruzzo, however, in this earthquake, has suffered important damage, as well as the other areas, and we are unfortunately faced with the complex situation of having important areas in which the earthquake of 2009 overlaps with that of this year while the procedures of reconstruction are still in itinere. It was therefore a positive move to accept the amendment that I proposed to Article 13, which resolves possible disputes and harmonises the legislation of 2009 with that of 2016, at least on the choice of rules to be adopted for reconstruction. There are, however, outstanding issues. In the same municipality in Abruzzo, sometimes on buildings side by side, different procedures apply. What was even a crime in 2009, here is expected and, in some cases, rightly encouraged. Then we'll have to harmonize. We will do so at another time, I am sure there will be a willingness to do so. I would like to express my appreciation for the work of Commissioner Errani, the fire department and civil protection officers and recommend that the rapporteur, Mr Lai, resolve the outstanding problem of the reconstruction of L'Aquila. We have made available the energies of the special offices, which today deal with the reconstruction practices of the 2009 earthquake, but the formula initially identified in the measure is excessive (we cannot allow 20 people to be removed from the reconstruction of the 2009 crater); the formula identified as mediation I find very balanced and I hope that tomorrow it will be submitted to the House, otherwise the consequence would be not to address some outstanding issues and, at the same time, to depress the work so laboriously achieved, thanks to this Government and this Parliament. I am confident, because the work we have done is too important and this instrument is too successful, to leave a small thing outstanding for us, but it is hugely important. I thank all those who have contributed. Let me turn a thought to the families of the victims and to those who have lost their homes and jobs. We all know how painful it is. I would also like to extend special thanks to the mayors: I have been there and I know what it means, it is a work without breath carried out for months and months. Finally, a recognition of the work of those men and women who, without any material reward, are playing a leading role for disoriented and disoriented populations must certainly be done in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u19	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and students of the University of Bologna, School of Law. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u20	I would ask all my colleagues to keep to the timetable. Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, first of all, let us say this: these days, more than ever, we must say 'good that there is equal bicameralism'. It will have its twists and criticalities, but in this case it is allowing the House of Deputies to deal with the bill of stability and the Senate of the so-called earthquake decree-law (before two decree-laws). In these weeks, thinking of the seriously affected communities of Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria (I mention the communities of Amatrice, Accumoli, Arquata del Tronto, Norcia and Cascia), that on more than one occasion I and some colleagues went to visit to understand their needs and needs, the Group of the North League has given the greatest willingness to understand, patiantando also too much for the presentation of the decree-laws (in particular the second), once again announced in magna pump, with slide, by Renzi, but in fact made available with several days of delay. The timing for the amendment phase was very, very compressed. We have also given up, despite us, to point out to the rapporteur and to the Government several amendments which they considered worthy of attention and approval. We regret that even the few amendments tabled, the result - I stress - of requests from the territories affected by the earthquake, there has been a substantial rejection by the Government and the majority or at the limit the approval of some agenda, which is worth little more than zero. We are not satisfied with the adoption of very few of our amendments, such as the one relating to the de-taxation of liberal payments to the State, the Regions and the local authorities, paid by individuals following the earthquake, or the amendment concerning the possibility of making the expertise secured in place of the jury to demonstrate the link between cause and effect if one has suffered damage from the earthquake. In the final document, the result of the merger of two decrees-laws, we consider it wrong to armor the crater. For municipalities that have been affected and that remain outside (apparently, many) citizens and businesses will not benefit from the provisions and tax benefits and, if they have suffered damage to their homes or factories, they will have to demonstrate with skill the link between cause and effect. With regard to the crater, moreover, contrary to what the Undersecretary De Micheli said with confidence, we have serious doubts that the 69 Municipalities of Annex 2, defined by the second decree-law of 11 November last, which extend the crater defined after the earthquake of 24 August, are already benefiting from all the provisions from the date of 11 November. For us it is wrong not to allow urban derogations for the installation of small wooden artifacts in the homes as places of personal civil protection for immediate shelter in the occasion of future earthquakes and seismic swarms, since we are in areas with high and very high seismicity. This is perhaps the most invoked request from those populations, to which you are replying no. It is wrong to foresee the installation of containers, purchased or rented, on the slope of the installation of emergency housing facilities (SAE), in order to remedy the displaced persons to spend the winter in a tent without the personal provision of toilets. Bathrooms and showers will be common. So elderly people, disabled people and young children must, perhaps at night, go out in the cold for their own needs. And meanwhile we learn that also the supply of the container will not be so fast and that, indeed, only few artifacts will be able to arrive within Christmas: it means that many will spend much of the winter in a tent. With our amendments we did not ask for wi-fi, as many so-called refugees welcome to the hotel, but at least containers with bathrooms to families with the elderly and disabled. It is wrong not to include in the text the explicit reference to appliances and annexes referring to the destroyed or inaccessible building or factory, which should be re-made with full cost compensation. In the post earthquake reconstruction of Emilia, which is not an example of efficiency, rapporteur Lai (which I thank for the work done), the lack of these terms in the relevant decree-law created a number of problems because it did not guarantee the implicit admission to the contribution and therefore it became necessary to issue special orders to define these issues. To reject our amendments means not to want to take into account the experience of the past and not to intervene in order to avoid the loss of time and the delays that have characterized the reconstruction in Emilia. Similarly, it is wrong not to include the recognition of internal and external installations as parts of the damaged building. Obviously, we want to persevere, as is happening precisely in the reconstruction followed by the earthquake of Emilia, where, in the face of these "holes" and these critical issues, the commissioner has already come to issue 459 orders. We also find it absurd, indeed very serious, that the Government, in the name of a Taliban environmentalism, in the name of the excessive energy efficiency and to be pursued at all costs, arrives to compensate in full the costs of reconstruction of a building with very expensive innovative and improvement interventions, suitable for example to allow the transition from a low energy class type F, or even G, to an energy class A, and then does not recognize the seismic adaptation of private buildings with a level of security of at least 80% compared to that of a new building. I ask: but how can we limit ourselves to the coefficient of 60%, which has proved unsuitable even in Emilia Romagna, since, for example, the buildings of Spoleto and Camerino, hit in the past and rebuilt with those parameters that you want to reconfirm here today, have collapsed the same with the repetition of seismic shocks? Colleagues, those areas of central Italy are classified to extremely high seismicity. In the depths there are faults, there is the monster, as defined by Sergio Pirozzi, the mayor of Amatrice, who, as the most recent history shows, will always be the subject, in the future, of new earthquakes, against which it is necessary to take the appropriate counter-measures already today. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If we want to avoid spending twice as much money to redo the collapsed buildings twice, appropriate measures must be taken to ensure their stability and the 80% coefficient, which you have rejected, meets this criterion. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we must give a new order to the priorities of intervention to be supported economically with state contributions: first, clearly before, comes the anti-seismic adjustment that saves real estate, mobile and above all human lives and then, if something goes on, we can also think of energy efficiency. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Finally, it is profoundly unfair to provide only the suspension, and for a very limited time (September 2016), of the obligations to pay taxes, contributions, taxes, mortgage payments, insurance premiums, bills of consumer services such as water, electricity, gas, telephone and Rai fees. We had to accept our proposal to exempt taxes for three years, but nothing. Therefore, families and entrepreneurs will soon find themselves not only forced to pay, but also to repay the arrears because of the suspension alone. Renzi, like a broken record, for weeks, continues to reiterate that for the reconstruction there is money, although in the two decree-laws we see few because all the big is returned to the laws of stability, was in the exemption of taxes that had to hijack resources, alleviating the concerns of citizens and entrepreneurs. It was here, at this point, about the tax exemption that had to make a big voice against Europe. We are also sorry that our proposal to set up a free zone to introduce tax concessions for micro-enterprises located in the crater municipalities was postponed. No free zone that, instead, could be done, undersecretary De Micheli, without binding the resources. No free zone, just a commitment to activate it. No exemptions, with damage to those populations without prospects, but only with a future full of uncertainties. Before the conclusions, I would like, on behalf of the Group of the North Legacy, to thank all those who have done their utmost in the aftermath of the earthquake: 24 August, 26 October and 30 October. Civil Protection, the fire department, the forces of order, the Red Cross, ANPAS and the many volunteers, of course the mayors in the front line and offer a warm greeting to the people. The continuation of the general discussion and the phase of the amendments will be decisive for the final vote of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u22	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u23	Madam President, representatives of the Government, Decree-Law No 205 of 2016 represents a definite and necessary evolution of the first decree-law on the earthquake, No 189, with procedural approaches for emergency management useful to give timely answers to the needs resulting from the terrible devastation produced by the shocks of 24 August to 30 October last. Regions, those of the Marches, Lazio, Umbria and Abruzzo, who, after crying the too many victims of the shock of August, had to face a continuous and devastating swarm until the morning of October 30, which redesigned the profile of our Apennines, wounded fifteen kilometers long the ground, opening wide chasms, and bringing back to the surface streams now underground, devastating villages and communities, some of which were just returning to a groove of normality and economic recovery after the last earthquake of 1997. Interdicted villages, whose accessibility is prevented by landslides and roads that are now unworkable. The priority is to provide assistance and ensure a system of emergency and reconstruction management, starting from the restoration of everyday life in common, restore basic services starting from school, but also the resumption of work activities and support to a exhausted population. Population part of which found temporary reception along the coasts and, in my Umbria, in the area of Lake Trasimeno. A decree-law which, as has been said, appropriately extends the list of Municipalities damaged by the Special Commissioner, to which the measures of support for workers' income and suspension in tax matters apply. Time and efficiency of the interventions, starting from the identification of the areas to be allocated to the installation of the housing modules by the mayors, as well as for the acquisition of the modules for the housing needs and also for the productive activities, using the CONSIP also through negotiated procedures. But another priority I would like to stress, so that we can intervene without delay: the recovery and safeguarding of an inestimable cultural heritage, which goes from the canvases kept in the churches now collapsed, to the manuscripts of Leopardi, to the Statutes of the sixteenth century, buried under the rubble of the civic walls, as in Visso. After the first intervention of the fire department it is necessary immediately to activate a plan of recovery, safeguard and safety from the Ministry, waiting for the special office of the superintendence provided in the decree-law, because what has not managed to destroy the earthquake, could do the weather conditions and the raiders without scruples. Giving hope back to that lesser and lesser Italy is not, because the heart of our country: a wounded but not extinguished heart, of communities that ask not to be abandoned. Central Italy, Italy of beautiful villages, widespread polycentrism, guardian of rural traditions and a religious and natural spirituality, of a unique landscape; guardian of an immaterial and cultural heritage that risks being dispersed if we can not soon bring back to those places its inhabitants, young and old. That community of relational life that starts from the sound of the bell of a school or from the chirping of the bells of the civic towers that mark everyday life, now to be rebuilt. Reconstruct in safety, with new models and rules, as has been said, that look forward to reconstructions of entire historical centers, between private goods and assets of the public heritage; a reconstruction to protect that biodiversity, which is at the same time production and transformation of quality of typical products of the IGP and DOC brand (from saffron, lentils, truffles, cheeses), places once crowded with tourists who in those places went to taste silence, flavors and smells, attracted by the beauty of the authenticity of the places and their unique and irreproducible traditions. They are villages that have often been scenarios of ideal advertising of products such as those of the company Perugina, which recently declared its commitment to the reconstruction and rebirth of Castelluccio; but other private individuals, such as Brunello Cucinelli, who declared his commitment to the monastery of the Benedictines of Norcia should also be remembered. I am thinking of a pact for the territory between the public and the private, for this reason we support the position taken by our Government so that the European Commission and the member countries recognize and grant flexibility in the national accounts for the expenses necessary for the management of the emergency, but also for the reconstruction, for the safety of the buildings, in a perspective of a plan Casa Italia that represents in concrete an opportunity of national valorization and revival. Our country is extraordinary, but it is characterized by many frailties, but still today, as the rapporteur said, it lacks a predefined system of powers and governance useful for emergency management, a predefined system, slim effective and at the same time clear and transparent. This could be Parliament's commitment today to shutting down and completing the system created by the 1992 law; a system that operates automatically, with tasks, powers and functional structures; a system that is not permanent, extraordinary, but can act without having to wait for a decree-law to be converted. I am thinking of a system of police powers that also values Civil Protection, Fire Departments, police forces and all the volunteering that intervened to lend first aid and that from there never left and stayed beside the mayors. From Amatrice to Norcia, with its basilica, I hope that those territories represent for all of us the field of proof of the ability of a people who do not give up to relaunch those places, symbol and history of spiritual and material strength, lands to be reflowered. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u25	Madam President, the measure comes to the House with so many expectations outside and so much anguish on the part of our fellow citizens. I still have in my eyes the memory of the first images seen in the days following the shock that struck Amatrice, when, together with Senator Arrigoni, we went to the earthquake zones, and even more alive I have in my eyes the image of the same areas, visited again only last week, with the countries unrecognizable, totally unrecognizable even in the physiognomy and where even people were totally unrecognizable even in the most intimate aspects, in their human dignity, that date of being a person who has a future ahead. It is therefore an extremely challenging circumstance that today sees us dealing with the measure under discussion with extreme seriousness and also with the extreme determination not to allow there to be an instrumental use of these situations, but only proposals and above all actions that recognize this event in all its drama. I will not confine myself, Madam President, to applauding, citing good things or denouncing the bad things that the Government has done, I would like to start with a basic approach. In the Commission, important details have been made, the rapporteur has certainly lived up to them and there has been a very important desire on the part of all the groups to share their choices. I did not like to see an attitude of the government essentially marked by drying out the proposals of the opposition groups to make them appear absorbed, to show that the action taken by the government with the measure is in itself sufficient to give the answers. The proposals which, at least we have submitted to the Commission, have been written among the rubble; they have been written with the citizens telling us what they needed. The consideration made by the majority is evidently that they do not need to include these proposals, which were not small or single, but were valid for general categories such as giving a housing response, such as giving an emergency response, such as giving a response to the anguish of those affected by the earthquake. It is not new, unfortunately we are used to understanding that what appears is very different from what it is. It is described by televisions as a government action with a great deal of resources and energy, but it is enough to go to the gym in Cascia and see - as we have seen in recent days - the elderly gathered, annihilated in their ability also to look to a perspective. Simply see the tails of the people to have a plate of pasta, on a day that is not ugly, without cover. These are the aspects on which we have asked, and we would have liked to have had a more realistic response. Madam President, both decree-laws, both related to the earthquake of August in Amatrice (No 189 of 2016) and to the earthquake of Norcia (No 205 of 2016), are heart attacks of regulations, procedures and bureaucracy. Starting from Article 1 of Decree-Law No 205 of 2016, which defines how to deal with the interventions, Article 2 contains provisions on temporary housing structures and modules, establishes how container must be made and how installation is to be carried out, Article 3, provides incentives for agricultural activities and then moves to define the conditions of urgency, the procedures by way of derogation, the intervention of the DAC, how the head of the department and the municipalities must move to face the worsening of the housing requirement. I mean, pages and pages of procedures. It is true, it is important, because we have been able to see examples of looting on past earthquakes, with those who have taken advantage of the misfortunes to get rich, but for this reason we do not have to put the answer that must be given to the citizens, which must be a concrete answer. Even today, unfortunately, we have not seen from the Government those small interventions fundamental for the reconstruction of a housing fabric that is made by people and not only by houses and structures. Madam President, if you go to Norcia, you will see that there are commercial activities, agricultural activities and artisans who are still and who only ask to be able to leave tomorrow morning. But how can they leave if they can't even get into their facilities to pick up the goods they left inside, since only the fire department can do so? With Civil Protection, which is forced by regulations not to intervene and these people who are there, without having a structure in which to continue to be resident. When the buses picked up the people from Norcia and the other municipalities of Valnerina and transferred them to Trasimeno, I spoke to people who really felt deported, because they were taken, loaded on the buses and unloaded the same evenings in hotels and residences without having anything at their disposal: clothes or anything else, not even the indications on what would have been the next day. This does not mean that the actions carried out are to be despised. It means, however, that the approximation has once again been too much. It was all marked - as unfortunately is happening also in this circumstance in which we examine the bill of conversion - to make 30, 40, 50 million Italians believe that in that crater things are already abundantly resolved, when instead they are still very far from normal; when even today, even, if there were not individuals to do voluntary activities, bringing genres and supplies of first necessity to individual people, we would find ourselves with people who would not have the certainty of having something tomorrow to put under their teeth. It is a reality not abstract, but real: I have seen it, I know it. And with regard to this reality, unfortunately, there has been a desire not to deepen. We have proposed small, simple amendments, even with regard to the municipalities that may be affected in the future. It must be considered that those are areas where the earthquake is constantly reappearing and where unfortunately the obstacles placed in the middle, once by the environmental goods, once by the park, once by the bureaucracy, have also prevented the construction of small garrisons of protection and safeguard, which instead would allow and allow people, at the moment when there is an earthquake, to put themselves first of all in safety and, then, not to remain exposed - as it has been and continues to be for many - to the weather in a cold, bad season, like the winter one we are living. However, in relation to the proposals put forward, a negative response was given and the amendments were rejected. I refer, as you well know, to Amendments 8.7 and 8.8. It was said Thursday that we would see them again, and then it was Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday; we have arrived today and the Government says that, in the end, the matter is so complex that we will see it next time, because it must be focused. But what do you want to focus on? Go talk to the people, the mayors. Compare with the territory, and not just civil protection officials. And even the disabled have asked us to take civil protection out of the way. It is not in the amount of people put in the field that the solution lies: it is in the ability to solve problems. The lack of coordination that has unfortunately been experienced has been far too much. A lot of hats to firemen and many volunteers, but the feeling was really that of a government that in front of the cameras wanted to make things look different from reality. And on this we evaluate the maturity of political action. You asked the opposition not to do obstructive activity and it was not done, because it could not have been on such an important subject. We have proposed corrections that in some cases avoid you and have avoided you, as they will avoid citizens, to make a sworn assessment rather than an acquittal, avoiding to send their technicians to make bureaucracy in the municipality and in court to have the certainty that the house, instead, has collapsed, when it is there to see. [[Recalls of the President]] There are so many things to say. I think - for example - of the disabled, who are scattered under these circumstances. Rebuilding the social protection cores becomes an important action. I am thinking of the farmers, the traders, the craftsmen we have met: they need and want to leave, to have an opportunity. Having asked you to establish an area with a special economy, a free zone, is not a pleasure, but it means allowing those who will rebuild to know that there is also the possibility of doing business and creating economy; otherwise, what do you rebuild to make houses, if then there is no one who will be able to live there because there is no economy that supports them? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. There is the bitterness, Madam President, of not having seen all this considered, with an attitude that I believe has relied on a moral blackmail: you cannot oppose, you cannot insist too much on the amendments because you cannot say no to a decree-law concerning the earthquake. Madam President, we will consider well what the Government will do, particularly with regard to agendas. Madam Undersecretary, this applies to you as it does to the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers: you have asked for the amendments to be transformed into agendas and for the agenda to be reduced to recommendations. Be serious: those are not empty commitments, because - as God is true - I come to you to seek one by one. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We do not accept threats in this House - please - Senator Candiani. Senator Morgoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the words that I have heard most frequently spoken from 24 August to today by those who have lived on their own skin the terrible experience of the earthquake are: Don't leave us alone! In fact, we are now aware that, even at events that deeply shake our feelings, the lights of the media circus suddenly turn on and even faster are destined to go out. But, beyond the ephemeral attention of the media, we have the duty, as representatives of the institutions, to listen to this appeal, which finds full legitimacy in the expectation of receiving help to recover after the very hard blow inflicted by the earthquake. The situation that I have seen shows strongly that we are still faced with something exceptional. The proximity that the people affected are asking for is legitimized also by the unsustainable psychological condition that they find to face daily, in the attempt to return to normality and to live with the seismic phenomena that still persist: a seismic Stillicide that to date has developed 25,000 shocks, of which more than 300 above the 3rd degree. The shocks of 24 August and 26 and 30 October 2016 hit the heart of Italy, affecting an area of over 600 square kilometers and causing considerable damage to the 131 municipalities of Marche, Umbria, Abruzzo and Lazio that constitute the so-called crater; a destructive event that involved 300,000 people and caused damage to more than 200,000 buildings. To the Province of Macerata, which has been seen to save the victims (if not in a single case), the most important damages have been reserved: 46 municipalities, out of the 57 total that make up the Province, fall into the crater; many inaccessible municipalities, 37 inaccessible schools and almost 25,000 people, of the 30,000 total assisted, within the territory of the Province of Macerata. The picture of the productive activities is not better, where 917 structures are inaccessible (they represent about 80 percent of the total); as well as in the zootechnics, where 110 stables are inaccessible (almost half of the total area affected by the earthquake). The measure under consideration in this regard is at the height of the challenging challenge to be faced, a first concrete step to overcome the emergency and start reconstruction. For the enormous and extraordinary work that has been carried out, for the promptness and also for the sharing with which this House will approve the measure, I would like to thank all those who have devoted themselves to the drafting, correction and integration of this document and, for all, my colleague, Mr Silvio Lai. Of the many measures that the decree-law introduces I limit myself to mentioning some of the most representative: the integral reparcibilità of the damages of the second houses included in the crater of the earthquake and also outside, in the case of historical centers and characteristic villages, recognizing with what in these territories the second houses are houses of family and precious factor of survival of the local economy; the measures aimed both to restart the existing enterprises, and to create new ones, and those to protect the workers; the administrative simplification aimed to facilitate the works in order to repair in short time the houses slightly damaged. It is clear to everyone that, in such an extensive and lasting situation, there cannot be anything in this measure that would be desirable. It contains, however, everything that appears necessary at this stage. And I would also like to stress its value in relation to the fact that it is not only concerned with building reconstruction, but also with economics, tourism and culture. In fact, in the 131 municipalities affected the problem will not be to restore the situation prior to the earthquake, but to reverse a tendency to depopulation and abandonment that, in recent years and decades, has affected many of the very small municipalities involved. And this will be done by promoting development policies focused on the strengths of these territories that are nature and landscape, specialized agricultural and agri-food productions, tourism, cultural heritage and handicraft manufacturing. For these reasons, too, it is important - and the Government has undertaken to do so - to respect the identity of the places and buildings, thus safeguarding the identity and integrity of the towns and communities. It is obvious that such a task calls into question a strategy that goes beyond the confines of the measure under consideration and that must fully involve other regulatory instruments, such as, for example, the Law on Small Municipalities, which is being discussed in this House in the coming days, and the strategy of the internal areas: all instruments that must contribute consistently to the pursuit of the objectives set and to the relaunch of this part of Italy. In the more than 600 square kilometers hit by the earthquake there are two national parks - that of the Sibillini Mountains and that of the Gran Sasso and Monti Laga - through which the protection of environmental values can be put at the service of the rebirth of these areas. Also the new law on protected areas, recently dismissed by the Senate, offers tools and opportunities for an active role of the parks in this direction and precisely the mayor of one of the most affected municipalities, the mayor Rinaldi of Ussita, in recent days has defined this important and significant norm for the ransom of the territory. Seismic events hit and struck a blow to two of the oldest universities in our country - and the University of Macerata and Camerino - which together represent a community of 20,000 students. If the University of Macerata has suffered minor but not marginal damages, for Camerino the situation is really dramatic. There are 30,000 square meters of inaccessible surfaces, 1,000 students who need a home and 500 other residents between Marche and Umbria who, after a period of commuting, will need a housing stability. The Camerino University, in particular, also thanks to its geographical location, is a very solid reference point of the entire hilly and mountain hinterland of the Marche. Already before the earthquake, it was a development engine for small and medium-sized enterprises and local authorities as well as for the promotion and enhancement of manufacturing, food and wine, tourism and technology excellence. Just from this emerging situation could arise from the University of Camerino a scientific-technological center of reference in support of enterprises and public administration. In this sense, the university has already long requested the transfer of the former military garrison of the "Casermette" to the Ministry of Defence as a property of the State. Even the University of Macerata, with its humanistic characterization, could become, in the reconstruction phase, a point of reference offering qualified personnel in the conservation and enhancement of the artistic heritage widespread in the territory. Today we approve a good measure, but we are all aware that we will need a continuous update in the quantification of both damage and needs. It will be essential to implement resources, because we have to think that companies will not return to producing income in the short term and tourism flows will suffer a severe contraction for a very long period. We therefore have to work tirelessly to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of reconstruction. The transition from emergency to reconstruction highlights the complexity and difficulties that we face, starting from a timely activation and correct distribution on the territory of the special offices for reconstruction. There are encouraging signs of a strong desire for rebirth consistent with the temper of a people accustomed to coping with great daily hardships and difficulties. In Bolognola, the municipality that is located at the maximum altitude in the Marche Region - about 1,000 meters above sea level - in recent days the bar has been reopened. Gualdo, last weekend, was inaugurated a new school built in record time, in three weeks. In Visso has resumed its activity, just these days, the Svila, an important company leader in the production of frozen pizzas. The true driving force behind these signs of awakening are the mayors, the highest expression of the tenacious will to defend and guarantee a future for the communities represented: their tireless and generous work serves to redeem not only the fate of their own people, but also those of a policy that is too often mocked. It must be said, however, that all the institutional levels involved in the emergency phase have ensured, together with volunteering, civil protection, fire department and law enforcement, a commitment to the height of the situation. And I want to say this by stressing in particular the commitment and role of Commissioner Errani. In conclusion, by taking up the appeal "Don't leave us alone," we cannot overlook that the environmental, cultural, artistic values and local knowledge, of which those territories are guardians, require us to recognize that their destiny is not only the interest of those who live there, but also the life of each of us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u27	I greet the delegation of the association of young people and friends of the museums of Italy, to which I welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u29	Madam President, the situation in the areas affected by the earthquake on 24 August and 26 October calls for great attention to be paid to the scale of the situation, but above all it calls for urgent action. The machine that set itself up for the first emergency has been able to count on the important support of the Civil Protection, become in recent years, following the abolition of the military lever, a real human resource. Precious is the work of firefighters, who see employed about 1,500 units, and other Forces of order. On this occasion Italy has shown that it is united in mourning, but also in the desire to restart those places. After the first emergency phase, it is now necessary to look at structural interventions that allow on-the-spot housing solutions for displaced persons, who, showing great attachment to their land, rightly demand that they be put in a position to remain in their countries. There is therefore a need for an innovative governance compared to that implemented during previous seismic events, which since the first phase has been projected in the future with the aim of rebuilding maintaining the territorial identity and culture of the place. With this intervention, I shall confine myself to addressing two subjects of competence of the 7th Commission, of which I am a member: in this respect it is important that the measure under consideration introduces some derogations for the course of the school year 2016-2017, taking into account the high number of educational institutions present in the territories concerned (224) and the school buildings (about 450); the school population involved is a few tens of thousands of pupils. It is to be welcomed that most pupils and students have been able to resume their lessons: in some cases only a few days after the second earthquake; in others with delayed and longer times (just yesterday for some high school students). The decree-law provides for the possibility of derogating from the minimum and maximum parameters for the formation of sections and classes; the establishment of additional posts of staff, of a temporary nature, until 30 June 2017; the movement of teachers, following a regional supplementary contract, between the school offices. The flexibility of the rule provided by the Government on the minimum number of pupils per class and on the recruitment of teachers goes in the right direction to favour the permanence of the population - in this case the school one - in their own countries. To make it clear from the outset, especially to young people and students, that the solution to which they look to the Government and local communities is precisely the one they want to guarantee their stay has certainly also a psychological effect on the path to overcome the trauma immediately. But with this intervention I want to highlight another aspect: the earthquake occurred drew attention to the great monumental, artistic and environmental heritage present in those places; a heritage that recalls ancient origins, a history long centuries, but also the strong roots of the residents in those villages, many of limited dimensions, in which the persistence of traditions and ancient occupations combines with modernity. In the affected territories there are also two national parks and different areas subject to safeguard measures, according to the current legislation on landscapes: a heritage that has suffered serious injuries, which risk to dissolve it. It is therefore necessary to address with determination the issue of seismic safety and the recovery of the protection of the landscape and of existing cultural heritage. This theme may seem difficult to co-existence with the preservation of the integrity of these goods or at least of the remaining parts. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. This is certainly not the place to discuss the modalities of intervention: the decree-law entrusts to those who have administrative responsibilities and technical competence this task. However, it is essential to have more streamlined and faster procedures to ensure that safety and reconstruction operations always pursue the highest degree of compatibility with the needs of conservation and safeguarding the existing landscape and environmental values. In these places, moreover, the environment and the landscape are a resource to be exploited in itself for the purpose of relaunching the local economy, which, historically, has in tourism a prerogative of absolute importance. In order to have more resources and to speed up the reconstruction process, it is important to make use of the tax credit provided by Decree-Law No 83 of 2014, the so-called art bonus, also for the liberal disbursements made in favor of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, for maintenance, protection and restoration of cultural assets of religious interest, present in the municipalities and of non-public property. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Count. Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). I will finish now, Madam President. In fact, much of the monumental goods that have suffered serious injuries are known to be ecclesiastical ones. Certainly the people involved are particularly interested in their home and work. But, if we want to design a reconstruction that ensures that we stay in the places of origin, we cannot ignore also the recovery of those structures, which are the prerogatives on which these countries have founded their economic development. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u30	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u31	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called to discuss and discuss the draft law of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 189 of 17 October 2016 concerning urgent interventions in favour of the populations affected by the earthquake of 24 August 2016. First of all, I would like to remind all the people affected by the earthquake who have lost their loved ones, their homes and their belongings. We cannot allow resentment between political comrades to call cohesion and solidarity into question. We must remain united with our fellow countrymen, armed forces and civilians on the ground. Three months have passed since that terrible August 24th and less than a month since the last tragic events. The attitude of the Forza Italia Group has always been aimed at collaboration with the Government and with all the authorities for the work of emergency and reconstruction of the affected areas. The Renzi Government, on the other hand, has been hostile to dialogue and I am going to explain to you why. On 28 August he declared that he would involve Parliament and oppositions in all discussions on the earthquake in Central Italy. He said that he would consider all political parties, but unfortunately this did not happen. The debate has failed, even for the political appointment of Extraordinary Commissioner Vasco Errani, while he should have been a technical figure super partes. It is never appropriate to make parallels when confronting catastrophic events of this type, but I find myself forced to make them and to emphasize the inappropriate attitude of the Renzi Government in the face of the earthquake that struck central Italy. The first decree-law was presented on October 17, 2016, almost two months after the tragic seismic events. It was the opposite during the Berlusconi Government, with the earthquake that hit the Eagle and Abruzzo in 2009. The behavior held by the center-left was polemic and adverse towards every single action that the Berlusconi Government decided to implement; a bad and disdainable attitude at that juncture. The Berlusconi Government issued the first decree-law in favour of the municipalities affected by the earthquake on 28 April 2009 and the earthquake took place on 6 April, after only twenty-two days. The results of the immediate intervention on the territory of Abruzzo are still before the eyes of the whole world. In September 2009, about 35,000 displaced persons had access to temporary housing modules (MAPs) and, later, there was the implementation of the CASE project, the definitive earthquake-proof houses. The Renzi Government talks about container to be delivered to the populations affected by the earthquake three months after the first strong shocks occurred. Winter is at the door; adverse weather conditions are a problem for people who have decided not to leave their territory and the delay and inadequacy of the emergency response machine are destined to make them pay for the consequences, if there is no immediate reversal of the trend. On this occasion the current oppositions did not adopt the same polemical and unconstructive attitude of the parliamentary minority at that time. Despite everything, we are here as the Forza Italia Group to collaborate in full effective way for the implementation of a law that protects and intervenes effectively in all the territories affected by the earthquake of 24 August, 26 and 30 October of this year. The maxi amendment of the Government to the decree-law also largely absorbs the contents of Decree-Law No 205, containing the new urgent interventions in favor of the populations, and extends the provisions also to the territories affected by the last seismic events. The second list of municipalities joins the first, extending the list of those entering the seismic crater. Special rules are introduced for temporary housing facilities and modules, which will be removed at the end of the emergency state. It should also be pointed out that the affected territories are rich in an artistic and cultural heritage unique to the world, whose reconstruction must also be borne by Europe and the whole world. On this we need strong diplomatic action in international fora. Italy, however, will have to take responsibility for the reconstruction of buildings and the continuation of economic activities. To do these things need important resources that are not yet foreseen in the two decree-laws, now absorbed in the decree-law under consideration. Children and young people should not be forgotten, who are entitled to return to normality and the carefreeness of their age. Above all, we must give them hope and certainty that they can return to their former lives. In conclusion, I hope that, after the seismic events that hit Central Italy this year, preventive structural interventions will apply for the reduction of seismic risk. This is also why we need appropriate economic resources and financial spaces in the budgets of local and regional authorities, which are still insufficient at the moment. The whole Apennine belt is strongly subject to seismic phenomena of medium-high intensity. This must put us in front of the reality that the whole area - and not only that - must be put in a position to prevent and safely deal with any new tragedies. I hope that every family affected by the earthquake can get back what it has lost, even if it will never be enough to fill the tragedy and fear it has experienced. But hope must be supported by the facts, by the speed of decisions, by the certainty of the economic appropriations that this decree-law, still too cumbersome and bureaucratic, does not yet seem to give to the populations affected by the earthquake of Central Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u32	She is registered to speak Senator Cardinals. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u33	Madam President, I had thought of saying a few things, but the time is short and I must give a couple of answers to my colleagues. Much has been said about the decree-law under consideration. On the other hand, I welcomed some of the choices made by the procedure. I have even heard the fact that too much has been said about proceeding when, in fact, the same people have challenged the procedures of the past. It's not a race. When dealing with a situation such as that we have had to deal with, certain thoughts cannot be made. We didn't think if we had to be faster or less than those who preceded us in dealing with past earthquakes. It was necessary to intervene in a disastrous condition, absolutely abnormal and sudden, which took everyone by surprise in particular reality. I want to say this, because I know my reality well, that of Umbria. Mrs Ginetti described it earlier: it is a particular reality, where even today some areas are absolutely isolated. I do not go so far as to comment on the content of the measure, except to stress it. Much has been planned and done to meet housing and also economic needs (I am thinking of all the activities of farmers and farmers). The government has committed itself. However, there is the subject of tourism, and not only in the areas within the crater, but also in those that are outside and that, as far as Umbria is concerned, are so close that they have been involved to the point of forcing the mayors of some municipalities to make reassuring statements. In the aftermath of the event, they registered cancellations everywhere. There is therefore a piece of system that has been blocked and to which, through the adoption of structural measures, we must absolutely allow it to be restarted. In recent decades we have seen several earthquakes and we have to deal with the issue of disasters - I am referring not only to the earthquake, but also to the hydrogeological disaster - in a different way, thinking, on the one hand, of immediate interventions with decree-laws such as the one under consideration, and, on the other, of interventions like Casa Italia, on which I do not extend too long. We need something more structural for the prevention and enforcement of an entire country. This is so true that a week ago I and my colleagues Lucio Romano and Giovanni Mauro put the question within COSAC, which met in Bratislava and within which we represented Italy. We have asked Europe not to calculate everything it takes to bring our countries from disasters and earthquakes into line and secure for the sake of compliance with the Stability Pact. This is important, and I know that colleagues in the Commission on Health and Health have stressed that in Article 14 on the subject of public reconstruction, those on hospitals, health and socio-health facilities should also be included among the structural interventions, and I also add schools and all public services in the strict sense. The Slovak Presidency has done just the document, asking the countries present to sign it and 18 have done so immediately. I am going to conclude because much has been said. Madam President, allow me, however, to make a note that does not want to be controversial, but only dictated by a fact that has caused me a little displeasure. I hope that the climate in the Commission will continue and that there will also be in this House, so that we can vote together as much as possible. But there is one thing I cannot allow and I must say it. I am referring to the representation given by Mr Candiani, in particular, and Mr Arrigoni. Senator Candiani is not present in the Chamber and perhaps his colleagues - or myself - will bring it back to him, or he will read the Minutes of today's sitting. You cannot give the representation that they made of what happened those evenings and nights in Umbria. Perhaps Mr Candiani has the wrong country. Next time you call me and I will accompany him to Norcia and to the places where the earthquake victims were received, escorted by the law enforcement and civil protection, received with a hot meal and assisted by everyone. I don't want people to tell each other things and say those people are going to spend the winter in tents. We need to know before we talk. The contract has already been made for the houses, which will be delivered, and urbanization work has already begun. My colleagues may not know that we are not talking about the Christmas houses that are placed in the house under the tree. Infrastructure and everything it takes to make it work. The contract is there and the houses will be delivered from the first days of December. Similarly, the stables and all the goods that serve for economic activities have been delivered. We cannot talk about approximation in this way. It cannot be said that in a situation like this, civil protection has failed. Only a shame and an offense against all those - from the government, the police, the law enforcement, the volunteers and the citizens - who in recent weeks have helped, without making the parades to be seen visiting those places and then come here to tell a reality that is not, offending those citizens who instead thank us for what we try to do, even in difficulties. [[Applause from Senator Albano]] It is clear that an earthquake of magnitude 6.5 is certainly not something on the agenda and needs extraordinary intervention. It doesn't take much to understand it, but it goes from saying that it was approximation and that we were not up to it, almost to say that we have massed women and children in the reception places. I've heard a post-war reality narrating, a hallucinating thing. I do not know what reality colleagues have seen. I say, however, that we cannot and must not. We do not do such a thing about what happened and about a calamity like the one that hit our cities. You have to be serious right now. And seriousness wants us all to work together and try to improve what there is to improve; to follow things even after the conversion of this decree-law, but to respect the work of all. We cannot allow, let alone in this House, the work of the many responsible people, of the many institutions, of the Presidents of the Region, of Vasco Errani, who is doing an excellent job, to be muddled in this way. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u34	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all gathered in this House for the conversion into law of two integrated decrees-laws with urgent and necessary measures to deal with the urgent events of the very serious seismic events that struck the Central Apennines, involving the territories and populations of four regions: my homeland, the Marches, together with Umbria, Lazio and Abruzzo, and hardworking, dignified, humble people without being modest, because they are rich in history, traditions, knowledge and a past that we have the duty to preserve for the future, acting to the best in this difficult present. It is the eyes of those who have had the opportunity to visit the places to tell us what happened. The images replace the words and, among them, the frightened and lost looks in search of a house that is no longer there, of a vanishing normality, of the objects of daily use, of the most expensive things, buried among the rubble; sometimes of a future that you cannot imagine and of a present to which you do not give up, because the earth that trembles is the same that you do not want and often you cannot abandon, as you do not abandon a fragile or sick family member, as you would not want to lose affections. Much has been done to intervene urgently - perhaps not immediately and not yet all - to allow citizenship to recover a minimum condition of normality, necessary to nurture hope in the future without abandoning its dimension of affectivity and losing its identity. We are our places, our habits, our traditions, our friendships, our family, our work, and all this we must defend and protect. We belong to the city, the town, the village, even the street in which we live, and we are a living reflection of it, for good and evil, consciously or unconsciously. That is why such events not only harm material things, they not only harm us economically, but they hurt the soul with indelible scars. Those places keep passions, hopes, commitments, footprints of life. That is why we must strive with speed, efficiency, humanity, seriousness and responsibility. Moving and exemplary, in this regard, was the response that came from the entire country, mobilized in favor of the populations brought to their knees by the "monster," giving an example of solidarity and deep understanding of what happened. I am thinking of a large company in Tolentino that has supported the earthquake, and this time too it has been an example of humanity and pragmatism, hosting the third-party in its spaces, setting up and expanding the kindergarten also for workers of external companies. I hope that all the institutions involved will continue in the current work of coordination and collaboration in order to overcome as soon as possible the phase of the emergency and begin that of moral and material reconstruction, of people and territories. The earthquake has spread over a very vast area, disrupting over 130 municipalities, causing about 40,000 displaced people and many - still to be quantified and evaluated - damaged homes. For this reason, in order to work together, without fences and ideological boundaries, I have promoted a bicameral intergroup for the support of the populations in the immediate phase and for the subsequent security of the entire country system. This seems to me to be an effective way of intervening across the board in a concrete and direct way. I therefore invite all of you, interested in the government of the emergency and above all in the reconstruction of the physical and moral infrastructures of our beautiful country, to join this intergroup, and I take this opportunity to publicly thank the many who have already done so. Italy is a geologically very young country, though culturally very ancient, so much to boast the presence of the highest concentration of cultural heritage worldwide. And of this heritage we must not only be proud, but possessing passengers, light, capable of acting responsibly to pass it on to future generations. An Italy that the earthquake has split, literally determining the displacement of entire geographical areas, must remain united and plan a different future, because endemic phenomena of our territory, like our earthquakes, can no longer bring with them mourning and ruins. For this reason, the earthquake must be an opportunity not to be missed for a renovation of the inhabited centers: all, from the small villages to the metropolitan cities, creating a public registry of the buildings to know those who need preventive interventions (now at risk more than yesterday, because the cumulative insults of the many shocks have not left them unharmed), to requalify the environment wherever necessary and to carry out a safeguard work and to prevent, as far as possible, avoidable damage in the future. The first interventions to the populations were fast, compatible with the environmental difficulties that had to meet the operators of the forces employed to provide assistance, due to the mountainous nature and impervious places hit by the earthquake. Having declared immediately the state of emergency allowed for rapid results. Due to the progressive expansion of the territorial area, caused by the succession of the numerous earthquakes, there have been uncertainties and concerns in the identification of the municipalities included in the seismic crater, that is those who are entitled to full reconstruction and tax relief. In this regard, I have followed in particular the evolution of the situation of the municipalities of the Marche, I am happy for the insertion in the seismic crater of some and I hope that an open space will be maintained for those who, to date, have not been inserted but, I hope, will be in the future. I confirm many of the things that have been said (I am going by synthesis): from the importance of simplifying bureaucratic procedures to setting up teams so that the evaluation is the most objective, the fastest and the most exhaustive possible and can then be rebuilt. I would like to say a special thank you to the engineer Curcio, of the Civil Protection, who, urged to speed up the assessments of the teams that had difficulties, responded promptly, in the day, so as to start then the Fast cards, which have expanded the audience of the evaluators. This is certainly an important aspect and even more, perhaps, can be done. This earthquake will give us many more problems, because it has not yet been understood. We don't think this is an earthquake like that in Emilia. I know the reality of Modena. There collapsed mainly companies, with sheds that were supported and not fixed, because we did not suspect the seismic nature of the ground (it is true that some sheds built by engineers and builders of the Marche have instead managed perfectly). They had not thought of such an eventuality, and the earthquake was completely unpredictable. Those companies in Modena, however, had economic capacity. Those people had a home and, therefore, they made early, some with their own money, to reinvest and build. There are people here who don't have a home anymore. There is a problem of school leaving and some young people who have been dislocated very far away. I spoke to the mayor of Camerino, who is very concerned, because if the children go out, the parents follow the children. He is therefore afraid of the depopulation of those areas, a legitimate fear. There have been committees of citizens, mothers, who are concerned about school safety, in which they also awaken the concrete and proactive participation of all in a very positive way. We must, therefore, do everything to not abandon those places, to invest in those places, because they have a value: for the historical discourse, but also for all the productive activities that cannot be abandoned. Not all activities are in fact transportable, as in the case of those who, from us, have animals, has a farm, has a company, with continuous supply chains that indicate the obligation to be in the place. We will also have to consider how aid is given. However, I am convinced that we will be able to do and intervene a great deal with the latest amendments and agendas that we will be discussing tomorrow. I conclude with the importance of strategic buildings and quoting the words of a scientist who has dedicated his life to the study of earthquakes, Giuseppe Mercalli, in the hope that it is time to listen to these words and translate them into works: "Sismology cannot say when, but it can tell where ruinous earthquakes will occur and it can also graduate the seismicity of the different Italian provinces, so it would be able to tell the government where more and where less strict building regulations would be needed, without waiting for the earthquake to destroy those countries that want to save themselves. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Silvestro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u36	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u37	Madam President, as the rapporteur himself has acknowledged, oppositions have had a profoundly constructive attitude in dealing with such an important decree-law for all the affected populations and I am sorry to have heard a few minutes ago speeches with decidedly heated and inappropriate tones in connection with this tragic affair. Unfortunately, many of the improvements proposed by the opposition have not been accepted. The same constructive attitude was demonstrated in 12a Commission, to which I have the honour to belong, in approving unanimously the opinion expressed by Senator Dirindin; an opinion which provided a fundamental condition for its approval, i.e. to include within the framework of Article 14 structural interventions on hospitals and health and socio-health facilities with the allocation of specific funds for the five-year period 2017-2021. In fact, there is no doubt that the hospital, health and social health facilities located in seismic risk zones 1 and 2 possess all the characteristics of buildings of strategic interest, whose functionality during seismic events takes on a fundamental importance. Hospitals are precisely places for people in difficulty to find not only help and care, but also shelter from external risks. I therefore appeal to the Government, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group and all members of the 12th Commission, to review in Article 14 the structural interventions on hospitals and health and social health facilities.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u38	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the earth has been shaking again and still continues a seismic swarm, that of Central Italy, which inevitably brings to mind the earthquake shock of 6 April 2009 that in L'Aquila killed 309 victims, 1,500 injured, damages for more than 10 billion euros and more than 60,000 displaced people; of course it brings to mind also the shocks of Emilia-Romagna on 20 and 29 May 2012, with 27 victims and just less than 13 billion damages. For this last emergency for the areas affected by the earthquake finally the government has taken advantage of the very bad previous experiences, not starting again from nothing to write the decree-laws, but managing to write a quite complete act, but obviously there are some critical issues. The first is certainly about covering, which has already been discussed in this House and which will also be discussed by my colleagues; the other is about reconstruction, on which I would like to turn on a lighthouse that must necessarily be kept on just as successfully as previously for the reconstruction of the city of L'Aquila and in Emilia-Romagna. A L'Aquila, often due to lack of administrative staff, we still see a delay in the reconstruction of public heritage and schools; a reconstruction that proceeds with a ratio of one to four compared to that of private houses. Not to mention, then, the very long time of bureaucracy for too many recourses to the TAR. Even with regard to private reconstruction, however, we see that only 80% of the new neighborhoods have been rebuilt, while within the walls 10 percent has been rebuilt. So, L'Aquila is still practically a ghost city. How not to remember the palace of the Municipality and the prefecture and the photos of the rubble that have gone around the world. But it is in the sixty hamlets of L'Aquila, those in which the simple citizens live, who live on agriculture and livestock breeding, like the areas affected by the latter earthquake, that there are the worst delays and even the discomfort among the populations does not diminish. While the reconstruction in Emilia-Romagna for the 2012 earthquake progresses faster as far as private houses are concerned, as far as public and monumental heritage travels on an increasingly slow track. Projects of greater complexity certainly, but buildings of architectural value and small municipalities with less availability of technicians have caused everything to march at this lower speed. The weak point, especially with regard to the reconstruction of architectural assets, seems to be the staff of the regional superintendent, who is too scarce to dispose of the enormous amount of work completed in recent months with the screening of the projects and the checks on their implementation. They are essential staff, but the Government creates a further difficulty on this iter because in the reorganization of the supervisors all the staff has been diminished. In view of all this, in these decrees-laws an increase of staff for the municipalities, obviously to remedy the delays, and we hope that this staff is enough to make a faster reconstruction. But the lighthouse that must remain on is not so much on the bureaucratic issues, which have almost been resolved within the decree-law with the increase, precisely, of the staff: it must remain on especially with regard to the malavitous associations. We must not forget that L'Aquila has been entrusted with the search for the truth, which was voted on in this House recently, which will be able to investigate with the same powers as the judiciary on the critical issues that emerged during the reconstruction (especially on the problems of building damage) and verify the regularity of the procedures for awarding public contracts and subcontracting. Assuring accountability is not simple and it has not been easy; in fact, due to conflicting investigations, there have been several investigations, but few convicted (only a handful of defendants) and, then, in the end, the prescription, problem still not solved by this Government. In this sense, the situation in the areas of the Lower Emilian region affected by the 2012 earthquake is no less critical. The much praised Emilia model, which, according to the official narration of the party of national and regional majority, has been a model of management to imitate with zero mafia infiltrations and circumscribed illegality, has actually shown not a few deficiencies and criticalities. Despite this, so many triumphal words were used when it was learned that the former governor of Emilia-Romagna, Vasco Errani, would be appointed commissioner. Perhaps someone forgot about all the judicial investigations that tell a lot more about the reconstruction of Emilia, different from the depraved one, also in these classrooms, and in which there are many shadow areas and many things that the central government itself and the regional one continue not to say, especially in the matter of illegality and mafia pollution. In this sense, in recent months the Emilian prefecture has blocked 75 companies involved in reconstruction. Behind many of them are the Calabrian 'ndrines rooted in the Emilian Region. How not to remember what happened to Finale Emilia, a village near San Felice sul Panaro, epicenter of the earthquake, where a matter of ordinary entrepreneurial craftiness was consumed. At the center of the scandal the middle school "Frassoni", from five million euros, brand new and ready to be inaugurated. After exactly four years, however, something in reconstruction did not work. Those who carried out the work, in order to clear the costs, would have used the so-called depotential cement, fragile and very dangerous material. So, for investigators and investigators the structure of the middle school would not be safe, so much so that the seizure was arranged. I would like to remind you that the Cubetto investigation, by the name of the concrete samples to be subjected to resistance analysis, is still under way. We will have to wait for the results of the analysis of the seized material and then the probative incident. Two major companies were involved, both with a role in Confindustria. It is Betonrossi SpA, active throughout Italy and leader of the sector, and the A&C of Mirandola, whose owner, Stefano Zaccarelli, president of the National Construction Association of Modena, who adheres to the Confindustria, left after the news of the investigation at his expense. But this is not the first shadow that thickens on post-sysm reconstruction in Emilia, on the contrary, it is only the last of a long series of anomalies. The first, as documented also by "the Espresso" by now three years ago, is the intrusion of the 'ndrangheta in the chain of the disposal of the rubble, with a very simple mechanism: in full urgency, with the chain of subcontracting, the roads of the earthquakeed countries were beaten by the clan trucks. They have disposed of an important amount of debris, according to investigators of the interforce group led by the cop Cone Incognito. This is an ad hoc team to monitor the works to be carried out in the reconstruction and that has worked hard, produced dozens of interdittive measures, excluding numerous companies from the white list, some of which are already active in the Emilian yards. I remember that although it's true that the white list was really an innovation compared to what was done before, it still doesn't solve, apparently, all the problems. We also have the case of the Bianchini constructions - and I am sorry that there is no Senator Giovanardi, who has spoken of this company innumerable times in this Assembly - leader in the territory of the Emilian low, reached anyway by anti-mafia interdictionary when the procurator antimafia of Bologna and the carabinieri of Modena have discovered its proximity to the 'ndrangheta Emiliana. So two years later, the owners ended up in the maxi investigation "Aemilia" (more than 200 suspects, now accused) on the Calabrian clan immigrants in the Provinces of Modena, Reggio, Parma and Piacenza. Madam President, I cannot finish my speech, so I would like to be able to submit the written text to the documents, adding just a few comments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Please finish. BULGARRELLI (M5S). That is why I would have preferred to intervene in the morning. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But you've already reached your ten minutes. BULGARRELLI (M5S). I thought I was faster. Then I get to the point and then I deposit the surgery. We have certainly welcomed the EUR 1 million increase in resources for the unit to carry out all the checks proposed by the rapporteur. However, we are deeply sorry for the total derogation from the current provisions on the management of land and excavation rocks, an argument where the mafias immediately stick (the same excavation rocks now know). We ask that there be great and careful checks on this. The real challenge of the territories affected by the earthquake remains however the social reconstruction of the areas of Central Italy; we hope that it will not become yet another earthquake of anyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u40	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u43	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I watched with great indignation the transmission of Milena Gabanelli, "Report" last night, which proved to be tendentious or ignorant about the Republic of Azerbaijan. I was chosen as a parliamentary observer in the parliamentary elections and, subsequently, in the presidential elections, and I was able to see the absolutely correct democratic way in which they took place. Perhaps Gabanelli does not know that Azerbaijan in 1918 was the first democracy established in the Muslim world by universal suffrage, extended also to women, the first nation in the world, before Great Britain and the United States, countries symbol of equality and freedom; democracy suspended in 1920 with its annexation to the Soviet Union and resumed in 1991 with the collapse of the USSR. The Republic of Azerbaijan is the only Muslim democratic state to 96 percent of the population where the various ethnic groups and religions live together in peace, freedom and equal rights: a truly secular state, which should be an example for other Muslim countries. The prejudices expressed by Gabanelli are very far from the reality of a country that is investing a lot in the formation of young people and in culture, pursuing democratic principles that in 1918 gave birth to the first university in Baku, the first secular school for women, the first theatre of the opera. Perhaps the falsehoods said by Gabanelli in transmission are due to the livor for having been included in the list of people not liked in Azerbaijan, as they entered illegally in the country and in Nagorno Karabakh, Armenian enclave the legal in the territory of Azerbaijan, as they recognize four resolutions of the UN Security Council, the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, the OSCE and NATO, which invite Armenia to withdraw its armed forces from the occupied territories of Azerbaijan, I repeatedly call ignored. Gabanelli's time transmissions (such as last night's one on Azerbaijan, a republic with which Italy has established important commercial and cultural relations, or that on Italian prosecco, when this wine is at the head of export, creating great economic and image damage to our producers, or even the inquiry into Moncler duvets, at the time when the company was listed on the stock market) I think they are particularly disturbing and raise many doubts about their timing. As a well-known Italian politician said: to think badly often you are right. And I think Gabanelli should give us a lot of explanations about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u46	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, on 22 November 2015 it is perhaps a date that says little to the members of this House and perhaps to many citizens who are listening to us at this time. This date corresponds to the day on which the government launched the famous decree-law saves banks, a measure that certainly did not protect savers, but rather established a new criterion in dealing with banking crises, in which it establishes the fact that citizens no longer have the certainty that they can see their savings protected. An unholy choice has been made, that of trying to save four banks (and it is all to see if this goal will be achieved), but it has also been sanctioned a certainty: citizens can be conned with impunity and the State, the Government, does not want and cannot protect them. It has been a year since that date; today we have witnessed yet another protest of the swindled citizens, demonstrating that the government's responses have been absolutely inadequate and insufficient. These citizens see no possibility of receiving malt, because they did not fall within the categories that were entitled to return their savings, and even today they have manifested towards the Government in front of the Bank of Italy, to show that the reality described by the Government and described by Renzi is not the reality that they are living on their own skin. I trust their words more. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] that of the stories and narratives of a President of the Council who wants to tell us fairy tales, but cannot tell them to those who have been conned and have not been compensated. And it is all the more intolerable what is happening, in the face of a statement by a Deputy Minister, Mr Zanetti, who said on Sunday that it is this Parliament's fault and it is the fault of the Finance Commission if a Committee of Inquiry into the banking system has not been launched. We have repeatedly called on the Commission and this House to speed up this process; this objective has not been achieved because there is a clear inertia on the part of the Democratic Party in the Finance Committee. We demand clarity, we no longer accept alibis, we do not understand the reason for this delay. It is unacceptable for this to happen, because you have the feeling that someone has something to hide. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Rizzotti.]] If there is nothing to hide, proceed immediately and do not allow a Deputy Minister to make offensive statements and do not reflect the reality of the facts. We're not the brakes. We have repeatedly urged, and now we want concrete answers. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u49	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, citizens and colleagues, just a few days ago we were debating in this House the Commission's report on environmental crimes committed on national territory, a cancer that has hit our country and on which we have to work together. We must eradicate it once and for all and with determination, not only of the image but above all of the productive and environmental future of Italy as a whole. The Veneto, unfortunately, has a very high concentration of eco-reactors: a phenomenon that is widespread among medium-sized and large enterprises, that often get rid of their waste outside the tracks of the law. There are frequent incidents of pollution, which undermine the health of citizens. Just yesterday he appeared in a local newspaper, "Il Mattino di Padova" (The Morning of Padua), the dramatic news of 378 new cases of environmental crimes, perhaps linked to the most striking phenomenon of pollution that takes place in Veneto, that is the spilling of Pfas, therefore dangerous chemicals, in the waters. So, once again, we are confronted with a very serious incident of water pollution with very dangerous chemicals. We are always in the territory between Vicenza, Padua and Verona. We of the 5 Star Movement immediately denounced, months ago, this type of pollution that has already contaminated the water of about 400,000 people throughout Veneto and only now, after the approval (which has seen us very determined) of law n. 68 on environmental crimes you can start to really prosecute such crimes. But to really pursue them, to counter them, you need men and means and instead the ARPA Veneto denounces a situation of very serious and unacceptable sub-organic. There are about 200 people available to the agency, so they are sufficient to control only 100-150 plants connected to the waste cycle; but in Veneto there are about 1,500 plants, so it would take ten years to control the entire network once. It is clear that this is absolutely unacceptable. The law we passed last year is crucial to starting this type of work, but it is obviously not enough. We must do more, we must provide the necessary resources to carry out this delicate work from which all citizens can derive extreme benefits. That is why we call on the Government and Parliament to start a serious debate on these terms as soon as possible, with a view, of course, to finding possible solutions. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u52	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would like to give a reading of a petition submitted by the students of Catania to their rector: We are students for the "No" of Catania, we adhere to a national network that brings together associations, collectives and individual students and students in schools and universities that oppose this attempt, clumsy and dangerous together, to modify, with arrogance, 47 articles of the Constitution. A few days ago, you published a note addressed to all the directors of the department and to the presidents of the special educational structures, in which it expressly prohibits the possibility for the university to host events on the topics subject of the referendum on 4 December if not in the presence of an contradictory with the presence of technicians and experts of the subject. Now I will not conclude the reading of the petition; the point is that the students complain that, according to this circular, in the absence of constitutional experts, within the university, even where the initiative organized the student associations, it is forbidden to discuss the referendum. Now I wonder, and if the students also ask, whether the referendum is primarily a technical issue (and not so much so that the citizens - not technical - are called upon to express their views on the amendment of the Constitution) and, secondly, whether it is not discussed in universities where it is to be discussed? I suppose this is an initiative of the rector, although I know that there is something similar in Palermo. At this point, I announce the submission of a question to the Minister of University and Research to ask him if there are any indications from the Government in this regard, and, if not, if the Minister has any news that there are other universities that are giving this kind of approach and what they intend to do. It should be obvious. In my opinion it is not acceptable that, within universities, which are the places of critical knowledge par excellence, it is forbidden to discuss where there is no such magical presence of an expert for yes and an expert for no.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u53	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-728.ana.u54	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 23 November, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.10 a.m.
