ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders agreed unanimously to include as the only item on the agenda for tomorrow's afternoon sitting the discussion of the draft law ratifying the Agreement linked to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, already approved by the House of Deputies. Amendments to the measure will have to be tabled by 6 p.m. today. The other topics foreseen in the timetable remain confirmed for next week, starting with the unfinished measures (linked self-employment, motions on the adaptation of water infrastructure and bill on parks and protected areas). The afternoon session on Thursday 3 November will take place with the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy. Finally, at the request of the Lega Nord Group, today's afternoon session will end at 6.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2342, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, the general discussion took place, the reply of the representative of the Government and the examination of the single article of the bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u6	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u8	LIUZZI (CoR). Madam President, our explanation of vote, as announced, will be in favour. We take note of the willingness of the majority already in the Commission to accept the suggestions and advice received from a large part of the Assembly; we take note of the will of the rapporteur Martini and of the undersecretary Borletti Dell'Acqua to verify the amendment concerning the prison of Turi, so that it is elevated to the dignity of a national monument in the same way as the native house; we note that the Government also undertakes to revise the procedure and the legislation in the matter of declarations of monumentality of cultural goods, where the prerequisites are fulfilled, in order to harmonize the whole matter and to make the journey, in this way, equalized in all the regions of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u11	URAS (Mixed). Madam President, I am speaking only to declare the Misto-SI-SEL Group's vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u14	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I too am speaking only to express the favour of the People's Area, in conjunction with the consideration given in some speeches during the debate in the Commission, to invite the Government to revise the legislation on the declaration of the status of a national monument. In fact, it is found that this type of very simple measure is being carried out by the House and the Commissions in a way that is too dispersive. [[Applause from Senator Mancuso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u17	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, the figure of Gramsci, eclectic and dynamic intellectual, far-sighted political, but above all writer of extraordinary intelligence, has helped to develop the critical consciousness of the twentieth century. Antonio Gramsci was undoubtedly a prominent man of Sardinian and Italian culture. A serious, deeply honest person who, like Emilio Lussu, who is also a great political fighter, has been able to best express during his short life his proud attachment to Sardinia and its origins. However, despite the great respect that is naturally and necessarily due to a thinker of this caliber, we believe that the bill that sees us engaged in this House today has different opacityes, which we cannot ignore despite everything. Our system does not provide for a definition of a national monument or, therefore, any applicable rules. The consequence is that, with the approval of this measure, it would not produce any legal effect, except for the award of a mere honour. The non-constitutional provision of a reserve of administration and the consequent possibility for the legislator to carry out an activity with administrative content cannot be confined to the violation of the principle of substantial equality. It follows that, when, exceptionally, legislative activity is aimed at carrying out activities of a non-general and abstract nature, but particular and concrete, there must be valid reasons and the criteria in relation to which the choices and their implementation are made must be known. In reaffirming the great respect and, in my case, as a Sardinian, the particular attachment to this figure, symbol of Sardinia and the world, we want to prevent this opportunity creating privileges that involve public funding for a cultural site and to the detriment of others. It is only a question of method and substance. Are we sure that Antonio Gramsci's Museum House cannot be protected, valued and protected with existing legislative instruments? It would be more reasonable to make a choice based on the identification of an updated definition of national monument in a coherent regulatory framework. It would be important to novelize the code of cultural goods and landscapes in order to establish new and appropriate parameters. It seems to us right not to adopt legislation until we come to the definition of a regulatory framework in which the meaning of a national monument is clear and precise. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement Group will vote against, precisely because we are not indifferent to culture and we would especially like the House Museum, which is a place of knowledge, not to pour into the situation of abandonment in which it is now located. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u20	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my statement will be a little longer than those before me, because my Group has not spoken in general debate. Today the Senate is called to express its vote on the bill concerning the declaration of national monument of the Gramsci House of Ghilarza. It is the place where, between 1898 and 1914, Antonio Gramsci, a Sardinian native of Ales, lived, one of the greatest intellectuals of our twentieth century. Antonio Gramsci's political history is well known: he was among other things, in 1921, one of the founders of the Communist Party of Italy. But the same dealt with all fields of philosophy, history, literature, glottology, theater and popular traditions, exploring with passion and competence different areas of knowledge. Gramsci is the Italian author of the twentieth century translated into several languages: I do not have statistical elements to verify the affirmation, but it is certain that his writings are studied more abroad than in Italy, where perhaps so far a reading almost exclusively political and part of the great thinker has prevailed. Let's be clear, Gramsci was a partisan, but at the same time he expressed a complex personality, which still requires adequate studies and insights today: those research paths that are being perfected in the United States, Ireland, France, Tunisia and many other countries of the world. Even in Italy the most recent debate on Gramsci and his prison story (I am thinking in particular of the writings of Luciano Canfora and Franco Lo Piparo) has highlighted new elements of reflection and crucial questions, which reopen the terms of an ever-present discussion. Gramsci is therefore a studied character, very studied, but still to be discovered. The House Museum that by law of the State must become a national monument is the house located in Ghilarza, center of the Alto Oristano that insists on a volcanic plateau, where Gramsci, from 1898, lived with his family of origin the years of the second childhood and adolescence. It is certainly a place of memory of national interest (and not only) because it represents the physical space in which the personal events of Gramsci have intertwined, in the years of its formation, with those of the history of Italy. This is the main reason why the Gramsci Museum House will be declared a national monument. There are therefore many historical, cultural and political reasons for Parliament's declaration of a national monument. It has been objected - and I am referring to the contrary vote announced by the 5 Star Movement - that there is no definition of a national monument in our system, so we would be approving something that does not exist. Now, regardless of the consideration that, in the formation of democratic legal systems, law is always preceded by fact, since the legislator is called to give discipline to what exists, it is simple to note that, in politics, the symbolic value is always very strong and full of meanings. The declaration of national monument, which Parliament is about to approve, among other things, follows the decree of 26 January 2016, n. 16, adopted by the competent Superintendence to the Fine Arts and Landscape, which declared the Gramsci House Museum well of historical, cultural and artistic interest under the code of cultural assets. But these are two different things, even if in part converging, since the Superintendence imposes a historical-artistic bond based on a judgment of a technical and not political nature. Here the symbolic value - as has also been observed by other parts - lies in the recognition of the great historical value of thought and action of one of the most important figures of the twentieth century. Such a passage does not mean that the work of the Sardinian intellectual must necessarily be shared by each of us and in all aspects. What cannot be ignored is the greatness of man and his contribution to the formation of national culture, as well as the socialists or liberals, for example, recognize the greatness of Don Sturzo or De Gasperi or, again, each of us recognizes the importance of Benedetto Croce even if, in hypothesis, he does not share the idealism of the Cross. To affirm that "Gramsci" is of all "means to recognize the value of a person who has made an original contribution to the construction of a national culture, the Italian one, which is and must remain pluralistic and democratic. And this is the reason why Gramsci's intellectual and moral work cannot be limited to the heritage of a single political party (and, with all honesty, today I cannot say which one) but must become a full part of the civil history of our country and of international culture, which, as I said, is already documented by the many translations of his works in the main languages of the world. Faced with personalities of this thickness, it is a fair recognition to attribute a specific and symbolic rank to the physical place in which the same took the first steps and left lasting traces of affection. In this perspective, the modest house of the Gramsci, built in lava stone in the historic center of Ghilarza, represents the starting point of an existential event that has left its mark, far beyond and beyond its actual duration. I also want to highlight the strong connection of Gramsci with Sardinia and Ghilarza in particular: a dense bond of meanings that goes through in depth all his life and his work and that we find strongly present above all in the "Letters from the prison" that, marking the most intimate affections, may contain the sharpest expression of his complex personality. I think that we must be grateful to those who, over the years, have allowed this important heritage not to be dispersed and erased from the collective memory: first, sister Teresina and grandchildren Diddi and Mimma Paulesu and then the many volunteers who, with their tireless work, have made possible the transformation of Gramsci's residence into House Museum. Finally, I hope that, overcome every conflict (just a few days ago the main daily of Sardinia, the Union of Sardinia has given news of the eviction intimate to the House Museum), property and management of the good, for the importance that more and more come to assume, are entrusted to a plural management, expression of the institutions, associations and scholars who have most devoted their time and their energies to the analysis of the thought of Gramsci without a spirit of partisan. With this wish, on behalf of the Forza Italia Parliamentary Group, I voted in favour of the draft law on the "Declaration of National Monument of the Gramsci House Museum in Ghilarza" (Ghilarza). [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u21	We greet the students, students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Brin", a detached home "L." Lanzi di Stroncone, in the province of Terni. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u24	ANGIONES (PD). Madam President, fellow senators, Ghilarza is a centre in the province of Oristano, which in the early 20th century had just over 2,000 inhabitants. The Gramsci family moved to that country in 1898 and lived in a modest house built, as it was remembered earlier, with the lava stone, which is the typical stone of that territory. In that territory and in that house Antonio begins his education school and cultural. After a few years, his family, reduced to poverty, in particular due to the absence of his father, must provide for their needs by settling as it can and also Antonio, who is the fourth of seven children, although having a great passion for studies, cannot enroll in the gymnasium and is forced to go to work, as he himself will remember, at the office of Ghilarza's land registry, ten hours a day for nine lire, which was the price of a kilo of bread. In the following years, he will be able to resume his studies and finish high school in 1911. In the same year, thanks to a scholarship, he was able to enroll at the University of Turin. In 1911 Gramsci left Sardinia for the first time and moved to an industrialized Turin and in full social and political ferment, also due to the growing roots in the intellectual and political circles of socialist thought, to which he enthusiastically adheres. From those years onwards a Gramsci with a national dimension was born and Sardinia, Ghilarza and the family home will be part of his memories as an adult, will represent his deepest roots and will then be the lens with which he will think of the world in the long and hard years of imprisonment. Of course, that house is not the only place of the formation of Gramsci; much have represented for its formation Turin, Rome, Moscow and, unfortunately, the different stages that the prisons have imposed him to make, however the house of Ghilarza, in some ways, was for its entire existence the only place that Gramsci has truly identified as his family home. So why make the Gramsci house a national monument? I don't think it's just to pay homage to a man who paid with prison and then with life his philosophical and political convictions. I believe, however, it is correct, all the more so today, to maintain the most historical and complete judgment of the figure of Gramsci. His human history as a man deprived of his freedom must always be associated with his main nature of thinker and politician. It is true, from some youthful writings and, even more, in those collected in the notebooks from the prison, emerges a Gramsci passionate about history, curious and passionate about philosophy and literature (as has been mentioned several times today, he was a journalist and a refined literary critic). A Gramsci also sensitive, affectionate until tenderness when he writes to his wife Julca Schucht or his children Delio and Giuliano; when he thinks about his family and his country. By the way, Gramsci will always be very attached to his land, even if as an adult he distances himself from his Separatist youth positions - he will write later: "How many times have I said "at sea the continentals," which is to an expression that we Sardinians still know very well - to get to look at Sardinia, albeit with its peculiarities, as to a piece of Italy. He wrote again in 1931 to his sister-in-law Tatiana: "I myself have no race. My father is of Albanian origin, however, my culture is Italian, basically this is my world. From a cell in which he is imprisoned by the fascist dictatorship, Gramsci manages to think overpoweringly about life, people and their events. Perhaps he dwells on those aspects even more carefully than he would have done in his condition as a free man. Of course, Gramsci was all of this and this too, and today those "Letters from prison" represent a heritage for the entire literature of humanity. Surely already this would be enough to make his home of childhood and adolescence a national monument. Gramsci was, however, first of all an ideologist, a politician, and was above all one of the founders, in 1921, of the Italian Communist Party. Neither prison nor disease has ever affected its conviction of the need to build a new society, a different destiny for humanity, the liberation of all the oppressed and the subordinate social classes from the yoke of exploitation. Gramsci wrote: "The French Revolution has taken down many privileges, has raised many oppressed; but it has only replaced one class with another in the domain". This is the thought of one who was a partisan, a communist. Central, then, as is known, is its elaboration on the concept of hegemony, one of the most studied aspects of thought gramsciano: the ruling classes impose their political, cultural values, their morals on the rest of society; those who can impose these values manage power and maintain together dominant classes and subaltern classes. In Gramsci the dream of a new society of equals is always reconciled with the idea of a society of free, even within a rigid and fundamentally dogmatic ideological framework. The scholars of his thought, for decades, still today, wonder about the conciliability of his positions with those expressed by other communist thinkers such as him, his contemporaries, Orthodox, those after the revolution of 1917, at the Marxist-Leninist line. In my opinion, it is not only the articulation of political and philosophical thought, but it is, in particular, the reconciliation of the dream of a new society, the participation of entire masses in their destiny and freedom, which has made Gramsci the Italian thinker of the twentieth century more studied and read in the five continents; indeed, to date, one of the most well-known Italians of all time. The house of Gramsci, which became the seat of the homonymous association in the 1960s, was a center of relations between former partisans, intellectuals, trade unionists and scholars, who were the promoters, in the 1980s, of its restoration. Today it is a museum and a center of documentation, research and cultural activities. If it is the destination of visitors from all over the world, and in particular of young students, the merit is of all those who have stubbornly tried to maintain that house as the place of Gramscian memory, first of all sister Teresa, the beloved Teresina for Gramsci, and her two daughters Diddi and Mimma Paulesu. What remains of Antonio Gramsci today? After the fall of the walls and the experience, initially exciting and then dramatic, of the countries that aspired to be based on Marxist principles, remains a vital and central Gramsci in the modern democratic thinking of several generations not only Italian and in a planetary dimension. The Nobel Prize-winning economist, Amartya Sen, rightly says that Antonio Gramsci's influence on the history of philosophy goes far beyond Marxism. With the home of Gramsci national monument we want to remind all of us and future generations a man, a thinker, a politician and a piece of history of our country that it is right to preserve whatever historical and political judgment you want to give to his thought. I would like to thank you for the initiative taken by our colleague, Mr Pes, in the House of Deputies. I would like to say one thing to my fellow Members who have raised doubts about the effectiveness of making Gramsci's house a monument, also referring to some strange considerations, such as those I heard from a colleague this morning: the measure we are preparing to vote on has a great moral value for the memory of our entire country. For this reason, the Democratic Party will vote strongly in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u26	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u27	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I shall abstain on the vote for reasons of method and merit. The reason for the method is the use or - better to say - abuse of the legislative instrument, which I do not think is necessary to protect the many symbols of our memory. From the point of view of merit, I have respect for the life and thought of Antonio Gramsci, who I think has often been original and profound, but I believe that we do not have a memory shared by the nation, as some have said today. In fact, we don't even have a memory shared by the Italian left.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u28	We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u29	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2233 and 2229. The rapporteur, Senator Sacconi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u30	Madam President, the House is finally faced with an expected measure, linked to the draft stability law relating to the current year, which has already been examined in July by the Social Security Committee, which has carried out a wide range of activities which I hope will be substantially confirmed by this House. I shall confine myself to reading some general considerations, giving the Presidency a detailed description of the measure, especially where it has been corrected and supplemented - and I think this is appropriate - by the Commission. The change of work begins to be finally understood in its depth. New digital technologies have pervasive effects, so any programme aimed at spreading them, such as the recent Government Industry 4.0, cannot ignore the biunivocal relationship between them and the labour market. Recently the World Economic Forum has emphasized how the main changes underlying the great transformation of the job will occur in the next five years and therefore require an immediate strategy in order to avoid polarization of the occupational and redditional benefits on a small minority of workers, mass unemployment, obsolescence of professionalism and skills, worsening of the already marked mismatch between the demand and the offer of job, marginalization of Italy in the global economic scenario. Demographic factors, structural inefficiencies in the labour market, in training, in school, in universities with particular regard to research, in credit and financial services, place Italy in a position of particular weakness in the new scenario of marked dynamism and agility which should also be favourable to the size of our businesses and to the original characteristics of our workers and entrepreneurs. Digital technologies change the organization of the production of goods and services and, as a result, change work with features of speed and unpredictability that have no precedent. Vertical organizational models are gradually abandoned, based on the execution of hierarchically given orders and the relative power of control; horizontal working relationships are affirmed that leave room for creativity and responsibility; work is carried out for cycles, phases or objectives; radically changes the concept of classification and job statically understood, dematerializes the fixed position, working time becomes flexible and sometimes self-managed; remuneration is defined in an increasing way for results. Even the most recent evolution of managerial reflection signals a trend of companies' evolution from economic organizations aimed, also by express code definition, to the mere production or exchange of goods and services, to real learning organizations in which hybrid professional figures are increasingly widespread in the middle between research and management of change in the productive and organizational processes that integrate work, learning, research and design, generating a high added value in terms of innovation in the production processes and/or in the ways of providing services. These tumultuous changes, affecting business and work, are not just economic. Lifestyles, preferences, personal and professional needs are evolving rapidly. No longer a job for life, as we have been saying for a long time, but not even a single place of work during the same employment relationship and not even a fixed time. Not a few people prefer themselves to work for goals today and be assessed accordingly on the basis of productivity and the result achieved rather than on the basis of parameters such as working time and physical presence in business premises. Mobility and job change are no longer regarded as negative but also as a often-obliged step towards acquiring new and more skills. New generation technologies are nothing more than a functional tool in this dimension for these profound social and cultural changes, opening up new job and employment opportunities. Agility, in short, becomes a pervasive characteristic of life and work performance in it. It does not resolve itself in distance work alone or in the only increase in productivity induced by time saving, as well as the best reconciliation between working time and family time is not the only potential benefit for the worker. It is therefore not a question of fixing changes, imagining that they are codified into new rules, which are always unable to understand a reality of many facets and rapidly becoming, but of identifying flexible tools, useful to accompany the use of technologies in order to express all potential benefits for workers and businesses. That is why the rules must be simple and certain. A soft regulation, as Biagi said, of a promotional type, with reference to the direct agreement between employer and worker of the specific modalities by which the parties adapt to each other. Free collective bargaining, especially in the neighbourhood, can always provide a useful framework. However, it will also be necessary to have an extraordinary digital literacy plan, using inter-branch funds, in order to retrain the many workers who in Italy have long been employed in the repetitive activities of traditional manufacturing production and who now have to move towards new professions. In this context, the autonomous forms of work have strongly suffered the consequences of the economic crisis, constituting the social body that has experienced the most processes of relative impoverishment, and in the present experience a condition of fragility, accentuated by the high tax and regulatory pressure, as well as the lack of an overall architecture of support and protection. It is not a question of assuming that the holders of VAT numbers are unintentionally such and therefore aspiring to subordinate, thus defining the protections, but of finding solutions that allow them to absorb the negative effects, through forms of protection compatible with the autonomous nature, to be subject to a fairer taxation and a simple regulation, to be more protected by law in contractual relations, to be able to exploit professional skills through investments taxed in the continuous redevelopment of their skills, the possibility to participate, even in associated form, in calls for tenders and the same ability, when organized in orders, to perform functions of public interest in a subsidiary logic. We must, however, consider the possibilities for consolidation and development of both the ordering professions and non-order professions. Some important profiles, which were also examined in the Commission, were then referred to the Stability Act because of the burdens involved. Some tax measures are referred to, such as a more precise definition of "autonomous organisation" for the purposes of the payment of IRAP or the final overcoming of sector studies, with premium methods of fiscal reliability, the reduction of the social security rate, the overcoming or reorganization in transparent terms of the same separate management at the INPS, the sure definition of the possibility to participate in the Confidences and to have the relative guarantees. Similarly, ways of regulating the performance of digital platforms will have to be identified, in order to guarantee users about the quality of the services received and the employees themselves about the fairness of remuneration. I start to conclude, quoting Marco Biagi, who told us, with foresight, that the same terminology adopted in the working legislation... seems completely obsolete. More than just the owner of a "work relationship," today's provider and, above all, tomorrow's provider, he said then "becomes a collaborator working within a "cycle." It is a project, a mission, an assignment, a phase of productive activity or his life, more and more the work path is marked by cycles in which phases of dependent and autonomous work alternate, in hypotheses interspersed with intermediate forms and/or periods of vocational training and retraining. Think of the consequences of the contribution payments, so that not a euro of contribution payments can be lost in this working life so different from what we have known so far. Hence the need to get out of the old and heavy labor regulator system, son of the old world, through a single text drawn on that Statute of the works of which Biagi spoke. A text aimed, that is, to regulate in an essential way all the work with a few mandatory norms based on the constitutional and Community principles, protection proportionate to the actual socio-economic fragility in all types of performance and mainly aimed at employability, the main protection for each person, much reference to proximity bargaining, even individual, or to the specific relationship between the contractor and the provider for mutual adaptability between the parties, between the persons. Pending an ambitious and lasting synthesis, as I have called for here, that of a single text called 'Statute of work', however, labour discipline needs further urgent measures to support the liberal professions and the development of "agile' work. The measure that comes today to the examination of the Assembly is the summary of the bill of government n. 2233, related to the law of stability 2016, and of the bill to my first signature n. 2229. The Commission has done a good job of synthesis within the limits of the financial resources available, in a climate that I believe I can call cooperative. For this reason, I hope that the House will substantially confirm the text produced, referring to other legislative instruments the further interventions that the agendas might indicate. Agendas which could also replace many of the proposed amendments, so it may be worth examining them at the point where we will find them, in order to identify, if shared (and many of them are) places in which to find a legislative solution for them. As I have already announced, I am also giving a detailed description of the amendments and additions introduced by the Commission and, more generally, of the text which is before the House and which, I hope, will soon be finally adopted by Parliament. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u31	The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the text. He's enlisted to speak Senator Angioni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u32	Madam President, in recent decades, in fact, the demand for new professional figures from the market, accompanied by the introduction into our legal system of rules that have led to new collaboration contracts, has made the self-employment category very different from the past, and certainly no less worthy of protection than that of employees. Indeed, the effects of the economic crisis in recent years have fallen on them and only recently has their recognition accelerated as a category of workers in need of attention and protection, also because of the weakness, if not the absence, for a long time, of associative instruments identifiable as credible supporters of their claims. When it comes to the crisis of representation of the world of work, one cannot fail to refer to the inability to represent work and self-employed persons for a long time. Today it is a duty for the institutions of our country to deal with a category of workers who need new standards of protection and protection, today weak or, in some ways, absent. Italy is among the countries with the highest number of self-employed: over 26% of the total employed. France counts 7%, Germany 10%; only Greece has a higher percentage than ours, but I believe that this is the consequence of the dramatic economic crisis in which that country still lies and the loss of hundreds of thousands of subordinate jobs in recent years. However, the high number of self-employed people in our country allows us to ask a question: is it always a matter of naturally self-employed work or is it often a question of forms of work which are essentially subordinate but masked by self-employment? Because, if the second hypothesis is true (and we know it is true), facing this bill, we must understand how the new rules can discourage those distorting forms of self-employment itself. Parties to the opposition believe that this bill encourages "masked" work. I think, however, that the new rules restrict the use of these relationships for distorting purposes. It does so first when, in Article 3, the clauses conferring on the contracting authority the right to unilaterally change the terms of the contract, or, in the case of a contract with continuous performance, to withdraw from it without appropriate notice, are defined as unfair and ineffective. One of the most positive aspects of the bill seems to me to have the aim of finally building for the self-employed a system of guarantees and safeguards (an update of our welfare) able to give answers to the needs of these workers who do not always have today. It does so in Article 6, when it delegates the Government to approve, within 12 months of the entry into force of the law, one or more legislative decrees with the aim of enabling private pension funds, even in associated form, to activate, in addition to supplementary social security and social health benefits, also other social benefits financed by special contribution intended primarily for members who have suffered a significant reduction in professional income for reasons not dependent on their own will. It does so, for example, by providing that employment centres and bodies authorised for work intermediation are provided with a window dedicated to self-employment. Article 12 also introduces a rule that has been required for a long time, in particular for self-employed women: it is expected that the maternity allowance due for the two months prior to childbirth and for the following three months will be recognised regardless of actual abstention from work. The important thing is then, Article 13: The pregnancy, illness and accident of self-employed persons who work continuously for the client shall not result in the termination of the employment relationship, the execution of which, at the request of the worker, shall remain suspended, without entitlement to the consideration, for a period not exceeding 150 days per calendar year. I would have preferred the rule to stop with this principle, but unfortunately - at least in my opinion - it continues to say: "without prejudice to the loss of the interest of the client". I also think it is important in the area of maternity that the provision provides for the possibility of replacing self-employed women by their family members. Among other things, the possibility of co-financing without the worker and her replacement is envisaged. Finally, Article 12, by amending Article 409 of the Code of Civil Procedure, formalizes very clearly the fact that cooperation is intended to be coordinated when the collaborator organises his/her own work. This is therefore an important and required measure. Starting with the conclusions, the second topic dealt with by the measure under discussion today, that concerning agile work, represents an opportunity to improve the management of the employment contract, not representing a contractual typology in its own right. The new provisions provide that it is essential to reach a formal agreement between the parties, between employer and worker. In particular, the ability to increase productivity and to facilitate better reconciliation of living and working time is reflected in agile work. The bill before us is therefore an important measure, which has been awaited for years by a world that needs more attention. We do it today, giving that world the attention and protection it doesn't have today. We are trying to do this and I think it is right to vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u33	Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u34	Madam President, the measure before us is based on a long period in which labour law has regarded self-employment as ontologically unrelated to its scope. Now it is finally recognized in an organic and accomplished way that self-employment, like that of anyone who draws from his own profession and from his own activity the necessary for his own sustenance, also has some security needs. Needs which, in this case, cannot be met within the employment contract, but can and must be met in the context of the social security relationship. It is recognised that self-employment, like that of any other operator in the productive fabric, can also suffer abuse of dominant position to situations of economic dependence on the client, from which result contractual distortions that must be corrected. So we salute this bill as a fact of great importance in the evolution of a branch of the order that in recent years is profoundly renewing its inspiring principles and its contents. We also believe it is important that public opinion should also be informed of this new legislation more and better than it has been so far. It is also important the second part of the bill, which aims to promote the area of subordinate work that is closer to self-employment in order to be a time segment of the performance settled consensually in a manner similar to self-employment, and more precisely for the failure of space-time coordination. We refer to the case in which, in the context of the day, week, or month of work, the employer and the provider agree so that the benefit can be carried out without the obligation of place and time, which characterizes the classical figure of employed employment. However, with regard to this part of the draft law, I believe that in relation to certain aspects of the measure we must check whether some of the provisions contained in it do not risk reducing the agility of the relationship that we want to promote and preserve. We all agree on the point that agility is not preserved if the agreement between the parties is weighed down with unnecessary transaction costs. The obligation to enter into the agreement in written form is fine, but if it is required that the written act also defines the forms of exercise of the employer's managerial power (Article 16), the small and medium-sized undertaking is obliged to make use of a consultant. On the other hand, we want agile work to be a form of work, a way of being employed, directly and easily accessible even by small and medium-sized enterprises, without the need for a formulation involving counselling and therefore an additional cost. Not to mention that the need to specify the forms of the exercise of the power of management presents the risk of an increase in judicial litigation. It is clear that no law is perfect, and if the text were to pass as it is, it is certainly better this way than not to proceed with this important passage. But our task as a legislative assembly is to consider carefully whether it is appropriate to impose that obligation on the entrepreneur. And the same must be said of the obligation to hand over to the worker and to the employee representative - there are therefore two recipients of this fulfillment - at least annually, a written information in which the general risks and the specific risks related to the particular way in which the employment relationship is carried out are identified (Article 19). Here I note that in the vast majority of cases of agile work - which already exists and is already practiced in many cases in our productive fabric - this form of work consists of an activity carried out by computer connected at a distance with the organization of the company: where the additional risk, the differential risk of working at home or where you prefer, is frankly not appreciable. If that is the case, I wonder whether it is not appropriate to make that amendment to the text which - I would like to remind you - was appreciated in the Commission by both the Government and the President of the Commission, but not approved for lack of the opinion of the Budget Commission, with the commitment to approve it in the debate in this House. It provides for this obligation to be imposed where there is a specific additional risk; therefore, not in any case, but only in those cases where for the substances used or for the machinery to be used, there is an additional risk in carrying out the activity outside the business premises. We must be careful, in turning the page and inaugurating this which I do not believe is an excess of emphasis to define "new era of our labour law," not to fall into a mistake that characterized the labor law of the old season. We do not miss an opportunity to promise economic operators simplification of legislation and abolition of unnecessary obligations. But then, when we want to promote agile work, we fall into the temptation of overregulation and imposition of obligations that do not exist in any order that we know. The comparison, on the international scene, offers no case in which this new form of work of the 21st century is weighed down by an obligation of dual written communication to the worker and the trade union representative of a document on risks that are not specific risks, which must be identified and reported as such. Here, let us consider this aspect; we are here to discuss this draft law and I do not think that a small correction could compromise the process, which I hope quickly, of this measure, which is now only at first reading. However, I consider the work that has been done in the Commission, and not just by the majority, to be very good, because we have also accepted important contributions from the minority to improve the measure. I ask that the government also evaluate these aspects, to prevent tomorrow's agile work from being a little less agile than it could be.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u35	We particularly welcome Mr Gerardo Amarilla De Nicola, President of the Chamber of Representatives of Uruguay. Thank you, welcome to the Senate of the Italian Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u36	She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u37	Madam President, today we are looking at the draft law Nos. 2233 and 2229, on self-employment and agile work. Honestly, by reading the words "autonomous" and "agile," I have associated him with what the current parliamentary, centre-right and centre-left do today. I find in the word "agile," that is that it moves with elasticity and quickness, what today best characterizes you. As sharp as yesterday's choice in the Chamber of Deputies, where you sent back to the Commission our proposal to halve your salaries. When you want you are very agile, let's be clear; you are very agile in this operation. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). What's that got to do with anything? But how dare you?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u38	Excuse me a moment, Senator Paglini. You, Senator Buemi, don't interrupt who's talking. You, Senator Pallini, be on the subject, otherwise you have to do it in another session. We're discussing a bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u39	Can I do my speech or should I say what PD wants? I can say what the Five Star Movement wants or I have to say what it wants...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u40	No, you have to be on the agenda, or I'll take your word for it. No problem, I apply the Rules of Procedure, for you as well as for everyone. [[Comments of Senator Buemi]] Senator Buemi, please be quiet. There is the Presidency which regulates, according to the Rules of Procedure, the work of the House. Senator Paglini, I would also like to refer to the Rules of Procedure on the substance.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u41	As I said, you're holding back, as the INPS raises the alarm and rejects your work policies, your jobs act, which is producing the collapse of recruitment and the increase of layoffs. After the doping contributory reductions for the companies, they collapse the hirings indefinitely, as we had denounced, and of course increase the layoffs for just cause and for justified subjective reason. Data released by the INPS is clear: in two years layoffs have increased from 35,000 to 46,000, 31 percent more. All thanks to the rule on work issued by the genius Renzi Government that, abolishing Article 18, gave free hand to companies to create disposable workers. Also in this you were very agile, so much so that even the electorate of the left, who sometimes still thinks that the equation exists: Renzi equals PD equals left equals Berlinguer. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What do I say? We're in bad shape. The insecurity gallops and continues to grow without brakes the use of vouchers that, as we know, allow to mask working relationships of different kinds; their boom counts a use compared to last year of more than 80 percent, to the point that comes the suspicion that this means does not solve the problem of black work, but dramatically replace stable contracts. Then perhaps we point out that the new recruitment to increasing protections sees a dizzying collapse of 88 percent. Politics? A big hit. The balance on the stable contracts of the first eight months of 2016 is also lower than that of the same period of 2014, year of the acute phase of the international economic crisis: from then on in Europe start again the positive numbers, in Italy no. I mean, it felt better when it was worse. In the light of these non-idyllic data, for citizens, results, allow me to guess that more and more desperate are trying to invent their own activities and autonomously. More and more Italians seek refuge abroad. We're on the order of over 100,000 people a year leaving this country. And if of course the intelligences and the young resources go. In short, Renzi and Poletti's work recipe is disastrous and we of the 5 Star Movement had denounced it immediately. Today we are in this Chamber debating a bill which has also been defined as the job act of self-employment. If the premises are those said above, there is nothing to be cheerful about. Already the first jobs act was a debâcle; with this second bill what is it proposed to reach the Government? Meanwhile we say that this measure wants to regulate in a single bill the working relationships of two completely different types of work: self-employment and agile work, a type of subordinate work. So it would have been better to intervene at the limit with two separate bills, but by now we have become accustomed to multitasking measures. We must, however, honestly say that on self-employment we have found that there will be more guarantees vis-à-vis the client. We say that because when there's a good thing, we never back out. We have also intervened with a view to increasing the rights and safeguards for the worker. The purpose of the bill is then to intervene on the workers employed in a defined manner of agile work or smart working; once again it is thought to mask with English formulas possible traps that can further insecure the worker. This is a specific type of work, which not only applies to teleworking, but also to those who work in the company, introducing additional flexibility to part-time work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. Mr Paglini (M5S). I'm sorry. I thought I had more time. There is a whole matter of merit I wanted to address. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Your group is assigned five minutes to you and five minutes to Senator Puglia. I remain in compliance with the Group's decisions. Anyway, finish. Mr Paglini (M5S). I therefore ask that the full text of my speech be handed over to the documents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Mr Paglini (M5S). I therefore come to the conclusion and thank you. The central point for the 5 Star Movement must remain non-discrimination with respect to other workers, both from the point of view of rights and from the point of view of remuneration. And again. The possible use of technological tools for the performance of work, if not well regulated, risks giving tools to those who may possibly use them in a scam way. If, as certified by the INPS, through the vouchers and the new types of contract, you have further precarious the life to millions of citizens, today try to repair with crumbs to disaster through some small concession that we find in this bill but that will not help the country to leave. What can I say, Madam President? I would close my speech with a phrase from one of my fellow countrymen, the Tuscan Gino Bartali, who in a particular situation began by saying: It's all wrong, it's all to be redone! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u42	We greet the students and students of the initial training course of the prefectic career. Welcome and welcome to the Senate and good luck with your career. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u43	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u44	Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary here, Mr Biondelli. I would like to refer the matter back to merit, because those who preceded me perhaps wanted to make a roundup on a past that sees through the glasses that the 5 Star Movement wears at this moment, and not just now. We are talking about the rules for the protection of non-business self-employment and measures to promote flexible articulation in the times and places of work, so-called agile work, as provided for in Law No 2233. The measure is very important for self-employment as this protection rules are relevant for this specific sector, which has often been forgotten by the national legislator. It represents, in fact, an act of equity that recognizes the value and dignity of self-employment and professionalism and enhances its central role in the economy of our country. The main objective is also to build for the self-employed a system of modern rights and welfare capable of supporting their present and protecting their future, to constitute a reference point for any person who wants to become a professional by investing in their skills and skills. Having said that, the approval of the measure is also an important moment in the process of modernization of Italy, a process already promoted by previous governments. I am thinking, for example, of the adoption of Law No. 4 of 2013, which has reformed the unorganized professions into orders or colleges. Parliament is called upon to take a further step to make our country grow, to increase the levels of productivity and competitiveness of the economic system and to protect millions of professionals. I am thinking of the more than two million members of the Italian orders and colleges and of the relative employment induced that feed, equal to four million people. For a long time they had been demanding a number of measures to be more competitive in the European market, for the benefit of competition and recovery. Added to these are all those who are not organized in orders and colleges: if you consider only self-employed workers who operate predominantly or exclusively with VAT numbers registered for separate INPS management, there was an increase of 19.1 percent between 2009 and 2013. The new professions are experiencing profound changes and new trends in society and in a world that is always in the making. In order to compete on the global market, companies today need innovative and highly specialised services that are provided to them by new professionals able to transform the needs of society by virtue of their skills and competences. We are not zero in this sector. It is good to remember that the present Government has already intervened with the jobs act realizing an important work of cleaning up the fake VAT matches and false collaborations, redefining from last January 1 the perimeter of the subordination, previewing the stabilization of the autonomous relationships fakes and punishing with economic sanctions the violations. Let us also remember this. With this in mind, the measure under consideration represents the second phase of labour reform and has the objective of making the most of genuine self-employment through regulatory, innovative and organic interventions able to recognise and make the best use of the positive energies of many liberal professionals in a coherent and consistent regulatory framework to the needs and expectations of these workers. The innovations approved during the Commission's work have already been mentioned. I thank the President, my colleagues of majority and opposition, my Parent Company and the offices that supported us. I would also like to mention a proposed PD measure accepted in the Commission. I am referring to the extension of parental leave also to the fathers enrolled in the separate management and to both parents the period of enjoyment extended from three to six months and from the first to the third year of life of the child; to the exclusion from the determination of the income from self-employment of the reimbursements of the expenses of housing and food related to the transfers following a assignment conferred by the client; to the extension of the active policies also to the self-employed with the centers for employment that will have to have dedicated branches. Finally, important is the measure approved, on which I had tabled a specific amending proposal, which provides for workers and workers who have to undergo oncology treatments and, therefore, are also disabled for a long time the recognition of hospital stay, as well as for other serious and disabling diseases. In addition to cancer patients, we are also talking about people suffering from diabetes, sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, heart, respiratory and kidney deficiencies, Alzheimer's disease, cystic fibrosis and more. That is why, and for the other measures, I have said that this reform of self-employment is important. It extends a number of rights even to those who did not have them before. Let me now turn to the analysis of the so-called agile work. What is also called smart working is a process of profound change that concerns the organization as a whole, the way to set up the work and also manage relationships. It is not a form of corporate welfare or even a teleworking that allows you to work in the home walls once a week. It is a new corporate philosophy, which gives people flexibility and autonomy in their work choices. In order to understand the attention to this new model, which is already practiced by many multinationals and various companies of great importance and importance, we must consider some critical points of the Italian system of organization of work. We have a gap of productivity - they reveal us - lower than the European average, a engagement of workers, compared to their activities, limited. According to a very recent revelation, in Italy, people motivated by their work are only 59 percent, below other countries, so we must also think about remotivating the workers. Not a few people - we have discovered - prefer to work for goals, for phases, for cycles, and be evaluated on the productivity and the result achieved, rather than on the basis of parameters such as working time, physical presence in the business premises, space. Mobility and job change are more seen not in negative, but rather as a often obliged step to acquire new and more skills. We also have the problem of women's employment, which certainly grew in 2004-2014, but still remains low compared to the European average, and the rate of abandonment after maternity is maintained: 22% of mothers leave work by the end of the second year of their first child. Therefore, rethinking the work model that follows the logic of smart working has positive aspects and encourages the worker to be motivated. It can, then, affect those who move, pollution, which is why many local public administrations have launched initiatives to raise awareness of companies and local organisations. I am now going to talk about commuting workers, which are more than 13 million, with a growth rate - from 2001 to 2007 - of 36%. They travel many kilometers on average during the day, with 33 working days per year. By allowing them to work from home or in the office, but outside peak hours, they would save lost working days in traffic; they would have less stress and an increase in work productivity. So again, I'd say it's time to change. Smart working means redefining the work more efficiently and agilely, giving people the ability to decide where and when to work, obviously in exchange for better results for the organization, the people and the community. From the perspective of disabled workers, smart working can be a very useful measure to promote the integration of workers with disabilities if interpreted as a form of reasonable accommodation. What, then, is a reasonable arrangement? It can take on two meanings: one, more reductive, intended as an obligation for the employer to take actions that do not involve excessive costs or particular difficulties; or, borrowed from the judicial experience of the U.S. courts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. FAVERO (PD). Our legislator preferred to adopt a broader form of accommodation, focusing on effectiveness/effectiveness. Therefore, it can be an elective measure of reasonable accommodation when considering its function of reconciling the life cycle (including care and care times) and work. Think of those with motor disabilities, who cannot normally use public or private transport. It is a priority for these players to have access to organisational formulas and methods of work that allow the widest freedom of choice. A regulatory framework will certainly be of great help if it is accompanied by appropriate incentives (I remember the Regional Fund for the Employment of People with Disabilities) and a collective support agreement. For these reasons, I believe that this measure must be fully approved. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u45	Senator Berger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u46	Madam President, Mr Secretary-General, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, after a long period of work in the Commission, this important measure finally arrives in this House. This is a further step towards more current and innovative legislation. It is good that such steps are taken and also quickly. We do them, we work and we try to change things, while others only criticize what we do. I do not know whether this measure can be defined as the status of self-employed persons, but it certainly has the merit of introducing significant measures in favour of particularly exposed categories, starting with those which do not refer to a specific professional register. It is a measure which also looks - I hope above all - at the younger generations, at those who are employed in the new services and tertiary professions of the latest generation: all categories that try to face the world of work with a desire to do and, for this reason, cannot be mortified, as often happens. The serious problem of debt recovery, particularly with regard to public administration, the absence of protection in the event of illness or maternity, the difficulty of access to credit, the high tax burden and the fragility of the pension front are all issues that are finally addressed by the measure under consideration. Of course, it is not resolving the difficulties of a sector that is vast and particularly heterogeneous and articulated. However, it also convinces us in the part relating to work from home or remote, which has the objective of reconciling the times of life and work, meeting models that look more and more at efficiency and results. This is an important step forward also for some professions that need not physical presence, but a virtual space in constant connection, where those who work share information, procedures and content. (17.59) (Follow BERGER). Positive are also the rules to make easier the forms of collaboration that have always taken place between professionals, with the possibility, now, to set up stable consortia or temporary associations to participate in tenders. In the Commission, through the presentation of amending proposals, I have tried to improve and simplify some passages. However, the need for compatibility with the budget under Article 81 of the Constitution and other reasons have enabled me to achieve a very moderate success. I have tabled three proposals in this House, two in the form of agendas and one as an amendment, concerning very specific issues which I believe should be the subject of attention by the Commission, even in the future. The first agenda is intended to commit the Government to deepen the matter of separate INPS management within which very different categories fall (from professionals not enrolled in a professional register, employees, company directors). In our view, even in order to have a much clearer picture of the contributory situations of the various actors, it is necessary to meet a reorganization of the sector, providing for different forms of separate management. The second intervention, in accordance with Article 16 of this measure, concerns the need to give an authentic interpretation of the rules relating to allowances for work transfers, in particular the forms by which they contribute to the formation of income. We must be careful to create a measure that reduces bureaucracy and does not produce it again. I thank the Government, I thank the Commission and I thank you that this measure has been scheduled in this House and I hope that the debate will soon bring it to a successful conclusion. I also thank the Undersecretary for the good cooperation offered in the Commission also by the Government. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE ePD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u47	Senator Manassero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u48	Mr President, the draft law under discussion provides for support measures for self-employment and measures to facilitate the flexible articulation of paid work in relation to time and place of work. It is in the premises of the measure that in the last two decades the Italian production system has been characterized by profound transformations. The composition of the labour force has experienced a radical change, seeing in an increasingly significant way the weight of the workers who carry out their activity in form not only autonomous but also and above all through types of contract "atypical." At the same time, ISTAT data show how, in recent years, the same forms of self-employment or subject to "atypical" contractualisation have strongly suffered the consequences of the economic crisis, going to form a social body in itself, which has more consistently slipped towards the risk of poverty and social exclusion. Even from the point of view of precariousness, self-employed and "atypical" workers have shown a condition of further instability. At the root of these general conditions of fragility is not so much the nature of the performance itself as the lack of an overall architecture of support and protection. This bill therefore intervenes in order to return to the self-employed a network of safeguards and rights that was lacking, a step that was expected and necessary and must be recognized the commitment of the Government and Parliament, and therefore of our Senate, to carry out this measure. We have done a lot of work in the Commission, with hearings and comparisons. The measures were anticipated by the other speakers and the rapporteur. Today I will use the time I have to take up two subjects which, in my view, will have to be dealt with as soon as possible in the context of the issue of self-employment and atypical work, in order to strengthen the measure we are debating today. Our Constitution, in Article 36, states that: The worker has the right to remuneration proportionate to the quantity and quality of his work and in any case sufficient to ensure to himself and the family a free and dignified existence, stressing the fundamental importance of work, as the key to the social and economic growth of our country. The hard work of previous generations allowed the country to rise and grow in the immediate post-war period until it was among the first world economies. But such a commitment would have been in vain if it had not been accompanied by the social guarantees acquired over time, which allowed - for example - to buy the family houses and to mature those pensions that today support many young people, children and grandchildren, forced to boat with precarious jobs, often disguised as self-employment but subordinate in fact, generally underpaid, at least until the approval of this bill, and deprived of the protections and rights that, with difficulty, had been won over the years and the dignity that any honest work should arouse in those who carry it out. I remember - for example - the experience and protest of Foodora's deliverymen in Turin. In recent years, the number of workers outside collective bargaining and income below the poverty line has grown dangerously exponentially. Poverty has, in fact, increased in the absolute sense. It would therefore be necessary to put in place a measure - I am thinking of fair compensation or minimum hourly wage - for all those categories of workers for whom a national collective agreement of employment is absent. The aim is to ensure a level of income for workers, which is useful for ensuring a decent standard of living for workers, while maintaining fair competition between them and employers in their participation in work in order to avoid so-called social dumping. This is particularly necessary in order to promote social cohesion and to promote the redistribution of income. I am convinced that leaving the issue of redistribution - and the same applies to the agile work chapter - to the negotiations between the parties is not the ideal way to protect the worker. Through the establishment of a measure to protect pay, all those people who - for example - make up the category of not engaged in education, employment or training (NEET) will also be attracted to the world of work, promoting social inclusion and the growth of the economy. The existence of a compensation measure will have a long-term positive effect on the level of employment, encouraging workers to invest in their jobs, companies to promote continuing training and productivity gains, and the state to train its citizens. The measures against precariousness and unemployment on which we are committed need to be completed with the implementation of an effective and systemic "orientation to work" programme. The world of professions - whose representatives we have had the opportunity to hear - is varied and rich in experience and professionalism and also opportunities. It is appropriate to make available to students who are completing their studies and to workers who have left the labour market, as well as the correct training, a correct and complete information on the professional paths available on their territory, offering everyone the possibility to evaluate not only the paths closest to their inclinations, but also those mutually most useful and satisfactory, and not only for the worker, but also in the economic and social interest of the country, taking into account the processes of evolution of the labour market itself. Many professional offers, in fact, remain elusive and in fact unknown, while for other more conventional professions the demands far exceed their natural supply generated by the market. Over-professionals in a given sector therefore find themselves having to accept jobs that are lower or too distant to their training and expectation, thus increasing, in addition to precariousness, frustration and social disaffection. There is much talk of "good practice": in this area an excellent example to follow is offered by Germany, whose work orientation programme meets students and families, including, among the many measures, the compulsory annual meetings with the "outgoing" classes of each institution and offers them constant contact with the consultants. This measure takes a first step, with the provision of a professional desk, within the employment centres. In fact, one of the most strategic measures in the long term of the jobs act is the establishment of the National Agency for Active Labour Policies (ANPAL), whose statute recalls precisely the constitutional dignity that belongs to the Agency, as it specifically aims to promote the effectiveness of labour rights, training and professional elevation of workers. The legislator has given the ANPAL the responsibility to provide for interventions and services aimed at improving the efficiency of the labour market: these are measures provided for in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union itself. It is on this point, therefore, that we must insist. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Sacconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u50	Mr President, today's debate has as its subject a sensitive, urgent and priority issue, which requires us to examine carefully the measures that come to us from the Labour, Social Security and Senate Commission and obliges us to put aside the diatribes and the political confrontation. We, as opposition, are ready to do so. I hope that the majority will be as ready and willing to abandon that attitude which, on many occasions, has allowed not a confrontation, a dialogue, but only impositions by blows of confidence. The general design of both draft laws is an attempt, of course correctable in some respects, to put an end to inequalities in the labour market, trying to give a signal of equity and dignity to self-employed and professional work, giving priority to the world of so-called VAT matches and freelancers. We know that the world of work and the approach to the labour market have changed and are changing. The prospects for those who enter or enter the professional circuit are no longer those of twenty or ten years ago and the laws must adapt. Our economy is based to a great extent on self-employment, as demonstrated by the increase in VAT-registered workers, who for years in the labour market have shrunk in the dark and have not seen themselves recognized rights and guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen, the worker is strong when the market is strong. And one of the interesting aspects of this bill is perhaps the creation of an intermediary desk that will collect applications and self-employment offers and provide information to professionals and businesses who will apply for it. However, all those operational synergies must be put in place to ensure that the function mechanism does not result in yet another window against which the hopes of those who face the world of work are broken. On this, as in many other aspects, we have seen with approval, during the debate in the Commission, some of our amendments accepted. Others were then transposed by the rapporteur, who evidently considered them a positive contribution to this text. I am referring, for example, to the call for conciliation in the event of a dispute concerning compensation for damages, which can also be brought through the approved bodies or, again, to extend the scope of the above mentioned window, also to the bodies authorised for mediation. In the latter case, however, it was not considered - or perhaps not intended - to accept our amendment supplementing the rule with a specific type of body that already performs this function. I am referring to the patrons who, thanks to their proven experience in the field of social security and employment, their widespread presence throughout the national territory, the professionalism and qualification of their staff can carry out all the procedures indicated in the standard. Finally, it should be stressed that employment centres are now undersized and in enormous difficulty in ensuring the essential levels of performance. The extension of the rule to the Patronage Institutes would be part of the "different activities" recognized by the Ministry of Labour and would have the effect of improving the service offered to citizens. But we know that the Government - except for sudden rethinking, in this very frequent period motivated by referendare necessities - has long decided to remove from its vocabulary the word concertation and with it all that it refers to, and therefore also the patrons who in many cases, but not for all, are emanating directly from the trade union organizations. We should also consider the protection of the client's relationship. The clauses are intended to protect the self-employed from unfair terms and conduct by the client. The clauses conferring on the client the right to unilaterally change the terms of the contract, or to withdraw without appropriate notice, or those clauses by which the parties agree payment periods exceeding 60 days from the date of receipt of the invoice will be considered unfair. On this last point it must be pointed out that we should also extend the application of this clause to public administrations which, despite the 30-day limit, often distinguish themselves for extremely long payment periods, which can lead to a genuine "economic suicide" of both the freelancer and the small and medium-sized enterprises. If the State requires the rules to be respected in the interests and protection of workers, it should be the first to comply with them. Returning to the terms and conduct of abuse, we consider it quite risky to entrust agreements between the company and the worker with the identification of the conduct that results in sanctions referring to collective agreements, and in this regard we have tabled a special amendment. Another aspect that concerns us is that contained in Article 5 of the delegation to the Government in the matter of public acts referred to the ordering professions. Well, the norm on the whole speaks of "public acts" in paragraph 1, which are those put in place according to the device of article 2699 of the civil code, and of acts of public administrations in letter a) of the criterion of delegation, which obviously concerns every act carried out by public administrations. It would therefore be better to clarify the scope of the standard, including by linking the postponement of such acts on the basis not only of third-party criteria, but also of specific professional competence. In this respect, our Group has tabled amendments. In any case, we believe that the general arrangement of the two draft laws under discussion is positive, except for the fact that - as is now the practice of this Government - the usual provision of delegation rules - there are three different ones - a questionable way of postponing the solution of the problem to the issuing of future legislative decrees which, as everyone knows, only provide for an opinion, not binding, by Parliament. However, it remains a measure that could distort the true nature of VAT consignments. It is right to provide guarantees and rights for self-employed workers, but care must be taken not to harness self-employment into the rules of employee labour. We therefore wanted to retable a number of amendments, rejected by the Commission, because we believe that they can still improve the text under consideration, which we will present in the examination of the articles. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Sacconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u51	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u52	Mr President, sometimes we learn more to listen to and follow debates than to read all the measures. In fact, we of the North League, after having argued, for a very long time, that there was a sector that has always been distracted (that which almost never asks and that arranges), that is, the sector of self-employment and the professions, we welcomed, even with a certain exultation, the fact that finally we looked with objective eyes, widening the field, to the interests of all the workers. I have heard almost all the speeches by my colleagues in the Democratic Party and I realize that the reality is a little different. I try to sum up: because self-employment has been distorted, because the difficulty of the moment has meant that so many companies are camouflaged by self-employment or other forms of collaboration, that type of work must be protected at this point. Sorry, but let's protect it as such, as a choice of certain people, since so far there has been a total discrasia between employee work, self-employment and personal involvement: choices sometimes due, sometimes made out of necessity, other times for family history, and we move forward in a field that has been, to date, distracted compared to all other works. On the other hand, we are talking about a rib of the economy which is not important, I would say very important. We do not now have the unbundled figure for professions, but we know that small and micro-enterprises produce 70% of the country's GDP. We are not talking about a marginal sector and we know that they have never asked for anything. If the autonomy doesn't make enough money, maybe because he faces difficulties, he has only one choice: to work more, point and only. He won't work eight hours, he won't work ten hours, he'll work twelve hours a day. The self-employed almost never weighs on the choices of public support and, in return, gets a great squeeze from the public body, because it is the most tarassed sector and also the one that boasts the primacy for less absenteeism. There is no absenteeism in self-employment, because absenteeism means not working, which means not eating. It would be an area to put under the reflector and assume as an emblematic model for everything else. Therefore, we can only declare ourselves happy that new safeguards are introduced. We welcomed - for example - the occupational protections in relations with the client (where there was undoubtedly a relationship of weakness and sometimes also of harassment) and the welfare protections. At last, motherhood is recognized to all women, whatever work choice they have made: whether they are professional, self-employed or employed, motherhood is recognized as such. We then have social security protection and against accidents, that is, against everything that in any case prevents us from working, and for the first time we also have income protection: I mean that if we lose our income for various reasons, we can finally give a helping hand to a self-employed person. We even liked the insertion of the anti-robbery rule: I don't give you money because you tell me that you have lost the market, because the amount of work or turnover has dropped; I give you if you prove to me that in the two or three years before your turnover was equal to 100 and now it reaches 50 for any crisis that may have touched it and therefore there has undoubtedly been a real loss. We therefore believe that the fact that we have control is also extremely positive. Let's see some false actions. I am extending because the President-in-Office of the Council has announced that, with the next budget law, there will be no more sector studies, which are a sword of Damocles for self-employment. He says, however, that he takes away the sector studies, but introduces the indices of fiscal loyalty. We would not, however, like them to be a further mockery of the sector or if the contributing loyalty indices use the same parameters as the sector studies, with one hand they help, but we know where the second hand goes. We believe that the tax system should be simplified for the sector, because the self-employed or working or making tax documents. An excessive tax burden causes the small craftsman to maintain relations with the institutions and with the tax authorities or to do other things that may be more useful. We need a simplification of the tax system and also a fairness of the tax system, because it is not possible for the self-employed, willing or not, to have a member (in this case the Italian State) that squeezes them for almost two thirds (and sometimes even more) of the income they manage to produce. I would like to talk more about those who want to take up self-employment. The 2015 law of stability had established a fair and interesting measure: a young person who has lost his job and is included in the employment lists, who wants to undertake an independent self-employed activity, is entitled to the two years of unemployment benefits (the famous NASPI), i.e. to an early liquidation, and with that small sum can start a ziendina, a start up. It's an intelligent measure, too bad it's jammed. Reading the norm, the boy discovers that, in order to be entitled to liquidation, he must open a VAT number. The boy goes to the Chamber of Commerce, opens the VAT number, returns to the INPS that tells him that at that point he must go to a center for employment (or as they are called Region by Region) and bring his state of unemployment. The boy goes to the second office, which tells him that he has been deleted automatically because, since he opens the VAT number, the alert requires cancellation. Then return to the INPS who no longer knows what to answer. Undersecretary Biondelli, I had to worry about this and with the provincial headquarters of the INPS of Trento the issue was resolved, also because there a good director understood the catch. Now you should issue some circulars to say that the kids should be helped and not freaked out: if office A closes unemployment and the INPS continues to ask for a certificate that automatically lapses when the VAT number opens, they make fun of the kids. Instead, we try to stimulate them, because we have seen that self-employment weighs less on the choices and the coffers of the State; it is the most flexible, because there is nothing but work and it is the one that contributes most to the internal product of our country: 70% of what we can spend derives precisely from these workers. I also hope that it will no longer be said in this House that the sector needs to be helped because so many people who have been disguised have to become self-employed: either we help the self-employed or we continue to do other things. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u53	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u56	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I could not be present at the time of the vote on the measure concerning the Gramsci House Museum. I like to announce that my vote would be a vote in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u59	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is yet another case of political inconsistency between what is declared and what is then done. Today, for the umpteenth time, I called on the 10th Commission, of which I am a member, to resume work on draft law No 2272 on fair trade. This measure, in fact, came to the Commission in March and has been firm ever since. It is strangely firm, because for more than a year the whole policy has said that it agrees with this measure, which is positive and must be brought to an end as soon as possible. This is a measure that affixes to a circuit, that of fair trade, that is constantly growing and it now counts tens of thousands of points of sale and of people who work, but that above all is the best alternative that we have to a large organized distribution that has too many powers and too often uses them badly. Despite a year-long policy that it is important to have a more transparent and effective rule, the debate, from March to today, has not moved one step. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is yet another demonstration, if ever needed, that it is not the Constitution that slows down the regulatory process, but it is the will of the majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I turn to the Italians who watch us on television: it is the majority who decide on the timetable in the work of the Commission and in this House. These are the rules and it is right to respect them, but it is the majority that takes responsibility for what is being called into question and what is not being called into question. This is a measure that everyone has been saying for a year that they want to complete; then let's finish it. So my appeal is not to the Constitution, which is fine in this way; my appeal is to the majority: act consistently with your statements. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u62	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem that, like Italy of Values, we want to focus on the legitimacy of a series of contracts concluded by the Italian Post company, in the person of Dr. Barbara Poggiali, with external subjects compared to the resources present in the company for the carrying out of activities that could and had to be carried out by employees of the company itself. In other words, one wonders how one can make an ordinary activity, in the sense of falling within the competences of the managerial and managerial staff already present in the Italian Post company, in extraordinary activity. Let me explain. Dr. Barbara Poggiali currently, with immediate effect from 30 September 2014, serves as strategic marketing director of the Italian Post company. From the company's accounting records, it would appear that, as from the 2014 year, precisely from December, the expenses incurred in order to take advantage of the advice of the company The Boston consulting group have risen sharply to an extent. The amounts allocated and approved in exit to the above-mentioned consulting company - net purchase prices for projects or consultancy or operational support - after September 2014, would seem to reach more than one million euros per project. In essence, over a period of almost a two-year period (December 2014-September 2016) more than €12 million has been allocated. This results in a division of tasks (approximately 12 in 2015) towards the same consulting company, which remains, in good need, contained below one million euros and, therefore, with splitting of expenditure and in contrast to the Community and national rules on competition for the assignment of services and with a prohibition, therefore, to proceed to direct trust. And again, it emerges that there is no indication of the need for specific professional skills and, in any case, a verification of the presence of internal and in-service professionals suitable for the carrying out of outsourced tasks. It would be necessary to ascertain the deficiency in the Italian Post Office (in the strategic marketing sector), both qualitatively and quantitatively, of the professional skills needed to carry out the services provided from time to time to Boston consulting group. Companies participating in public administrations are obliged to confer professional duties in accordance with the principles of transparency, publicity and impartiality, as well as requirements for the reduction of public expenditure and the guarantee of transparency and meritocracy in the assignment of professional tasks. In fact, it is necessary to avoid that tasks of a multiannual duration, with regard to non-specialist services, hide clientele purposes, together with the aim of ensuring maximum publicity in order to allow popular control over the use of public money. Since the time available to me is over, I would ask that the remainder of my speech be appended to the Minutes of today's sitting and that I announce that I have put a question to you yesterday (4-06560), which calls for clarification. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Bencini.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u65	FABBRI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 24 May 2016, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work, which I am honored to preside over, promoted an inspection action at the cooperative company Centro Lazio in Sabaudia. Frequent in recent months, in fact, the news appeared in the press about the insistence, in these areas, of the exploitation of Indian agricultural workers of the so-called Sikh community. The inspection was carried out thanks to the help of the Latin police, the Provincial Command of the Carabinieri of Latina, the Carabinieri Command for the protection of health (NAS) and the Carabinieri Command for the protection of work, in coordination with the attorney of the Republic of Latina. During the inspection there was a serious picture of the working conditions of more than 100 Indian workers, characterised by the omission of measures to protect the health and safety of workers. The hearing of some workers showed that they were often forced to work 11 to 12 hours a day, for a pay of about 3 euros per hour, and subjected to harassment and mortification, in a climate of fear, becoming even the subject of illicit mediation by corporals. Following this inspection, the prosecutor of the Republic of Latina proceeded for the offence referred to in Article 603- bis of the Criminal Code and, on Monday 24 October, a detention order was carried out in prison for an Indian citizen accused of having carried out head of state against his countrymen. This is an important procedural development, which confirms the effectiveness of the work carried out by the Commission of Inquiry, thanks to the valuable commitment - let me say, Mr President - of the members of the Commission, the managers and officials, the secretariat, the policemen and the advisers who, together with me, carry out activities in the Commission, demonstrating that, when cross-checks are carried out on the territory, as is now the case with the recently adopted law, with attention to the protection of victims, it is possible to ascertain the facts of the case and effectively combat the scourge of exploitation of labour. The new law must now be enforced, which has reformed the crime by extending the indictment for labour mediation and exploitation also to those who hire or employ labour recruited through corporals, thus making companies responsible, at the same time promoting healthy businesses and protecting workers. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u68	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make the speech I gave up this morning. You see, Mr President, all over Italy, the news reports in the newspapers unfortunately do not lack constant news of the fact that there are episodes in which so-called refugees, in the specific case of asylum seekers, take over more and more and try to impose themselves also on the institutions. In the specific case this morning, in front of the municipality of Tradate, was staged yet another demonstration by a large group of asylum seekers present at the same town, with the aim of obtaining the issue of the identity card. I had the opportunity to deepen in the day with the prefect the circumstances that led them to have this claim and emerged a very precise scenario. A large part of the applicants, in this particular case, have already had a refusal to recognise refugee status. This clearly determines the start of a further serious path. In fact, the request for the recognition of residence and, in the specific case, the obtaining of the identity card, even if in the presence of a refusal to which an appeal has been lodged with the court, means that they have grasped a weakness on the part of the Italian system. Mr President, I do not want to stress what it means to have thousands or tens of thousands of identity cards in circulation, in the hands of people who objectively have no right to be present as refugees or who are recognised as having the right to subsidiary protection on our national territory. The prefect assures that, when they were to have an expulsion sheet in their hands, the documents would be withdrawn. I challenge anyone to imagine how these identity cards can be withdrawn once they are released. On the other hand, if this circumstance is not stopped, we will have in circulation on national territory - and I hope not later - identity cards legally issued by our civil state offices; but with what use and with what risks? This is a real and serious problem I pose. I believe that the legislator (in this case, the Government) should take this matter seriously.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u69	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-710.ana.u70	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 27 October, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.37.
