ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 12 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on the organisation of judicial offices and the situation of administrative staff and prison conditions, to which the Minister for Justice, Mr Orlando, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions about the organisation of judicial offices and the situation of administrative staff. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u6	FILIPPIN (PD). Minister, the administration of justice has been penalized for over two decades by the lack of staff turnover and the increase in the number of uncoveries that have reached about 9,000. Given that this disinvestment in the judicial administration has a definite effect on the justice service and on the times of response to the questions of citizens and institutions, giving notice to this Government that, since its establishment, has for the first time reversed this trend through the placing of new staff on the move, coming from the Provinces and the bodies made redundant, thanks to the allocation of new resources for the efficiency of the judicial system; considering that this effort has allowed to respond both to a problem of the judicial administration and to that of many workers made redundant in their administrations, we ask what further measures are being taken to strengthen the staff of the administrative staff, in particular in those areas of the country that suffer the major discoveries, such as the Veneto (i.e. the absences of administrative staff of the Vicenza court and the competent proxy on processes and actions following the crisis of the People's Bank of Vicenza, which amount to about 25% of the staff). There is also a question of how to tackle the issue of the redevelopment of the administrative staff of justice, another issue strongly felt by the whole world of justice.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u9	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, some shortcomings in administrative staff have just been mentioned. I ask you what measures you intend to take because, after the revision of the judicial districts, there has been a delay in the celebration of trials in some offices. The situation should therefore be recalibrated, taking into account also the blockage of the turnover between offices and offices. This would probably also lead to a solution to the situation of the Naples Court of Appeal, to which you referred in the last few days. I would also ask you whether you do not intend to introduce by law the tax section of the Court of Cassation, because it would have a strong impact on the functioning of the Court, given that one third of the entire civil litigation concerns the tax section itself, while the other two thirds are divided among the other five sections. Introduced by law would be to equip the section with a sufficient number of magistrates, just as it was for the section work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u12	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Minister for Justice, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, we ask you to know what the guidelines of the Government, in particular of your Ministry, are for the fight against organised crime, in particular in terms of the number of judges in the first-line courts. In particular, with the Anti-Mafia Commission, we have seen a very serious situation in Reggio Calabria, where almost a thousand precautionary requests are pending, which are not examined due to lack of gips. But this situation is present in several courts that are at the forefront in the fight against the Mafia. We ask - as the president of the gip section of Reggio Calabria has also done - whether it is not even necessary to intervene, as was done for example for Expo, to dispose of the great amount of work and above all not to frustrate it. The second question concerns precisely the abolition of the appeal court of Reggio Calabria, which we consider to be a damage in the fight against organised crime. We would like to know the government's position in this respect. Finally, as far as Naples is concerned, there are not only the measures requested by the prosecutor who are pending in the various courts, but also final measures pending execution, which are not carried out due to lack of staff. We are talking about 50,000 measures only in the court of Naples and about almost 10,000 executions of prison sentences that are not carried out for personal lack. We'd like to know what the government intends to do with this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u15	MUSSINI (Mixed). Minister, it is clear that the Italian judicial system is characterized by the length of the time of the trials and an excessive workload of the judicial courts and, more specifically, by difficulties related to the matter of minors and the family, to which there is now a need to ensure concentration and effective protection of minors, with a unique procedural model and a specialised judge. A court, an autonomous prosecutor's office that combines within itself the competences of persons and families underage. The juvenile justice sector is a complex world that meets the needs of a particular and composite population. The common consideration is that Italian juvenile justice is an inestimable heritage, as it aims to produce adequate responses to the personality and educational needs of the child, whose protection and rehabilitation are the presupposition and the main purpose. These principles are also based on Europe, which recently adopted a directive on procedural guarantees for children under criminal investigation, which takes on exactly the values which are the basis of our legal system. On 10 March, the Chamber of Deputies passed a draft law which provides for the abolition of the courts for minors and the offices of the prosecutor in the above-mentioned courts, replacing them with specialised sections which have only a prevalent function in the district and exclusive only in the district. While on the one hand it is necessary and certainly desired a transformation in the direction that nevertheless follows what has been proposed by the Government and the Chambers, on the other we are concerned about the autonomy of the judicial body and the specialization, in particular for the prosecutors and their function of prevention. It wonders whether the Government intends to promote the creation of a court and an autonomous office of proxy that combine within itself the competences in the matter of persons, family and minors, maintaining and enhancing, also through the reserve of exclusivity of the functions, the competences and the specialization of the sector in the exclusive interest of the child.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u18	Mr Barani (AL-A). Minister, in the light of the indisputable length of justice that the country seems to suffer in an atavistic way and that so much damage in economic terms, as well as in the exquisitely legal matter, given the lack of staff - as many of my colleagues have just said - in the judicial offices, from several parties subject to denunciation in reference to the long duration of the trials (even the European Court of Justice repeats this continuously), considered that such exponential expansion of the time relative to the duration of the judicial proceedings, on the one hand, is cause of further Calvary for those who will then be judged innocent and, on the other hand, risk not guaranteeing the certainty of the penalty for those who are actually guilty, we ask as a Group how we intend to proceed in order to optimize a key sector of the country and if the recent amalgamation of the judicial offices does not risk to further slow down the machinery of justice. Mr. Minister, wouldn't you like to merge Massa Carrara's court with Lucca's, and so many other courts in Italy? That would be a mess. We're not gonna let him.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u21	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Minister, I refer to the situation of lack of staff in the courts of Veneto and, in particular, in the tribunal of Vicenza, where there is a cover-up of the staff of the Registry who has reached levels at the limit of collapse, a cover-up recently reached 25%. It should be borne in mind that, despite the expected arrival of new magistrates, having new magistrates without Registry staff still means frustrating their work. It should also be borne in mind that the tribunal of Vicenza is particularly overwhelmed by ongoing investigations into the People's Bank of Vicenza: a large investigative strand that requires not only prosecutors, but also and above all stationery staff, so that these trials can be carried out. For this reason, we ask you what measures can be taken to restore the staff of all judicial agents in order to allow the chancellories of the Vicenza court to function efficiently.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u24	IN MAY (CoR). Minister, your Government has intervened to reorganize the judicial offices of first instance through the abolition of 220 detachment sections of court, with their prosecutors, and 667 offices of the judge of peace. This rationalization intervention has resulted in further serious critical aspects compared to the staff shortages of administrative staff. Not only that: a further problematic aspect related to the state of judicial construction has emerged often, already before the reform, insufficient to manage business and personnel and therefore even more in suffering for the additional load represented by the relative amalgamations, leading to an increase in hearings and the necessary shift of many of them to afternoon hours. Another element achieved by the reorganization referred to above concerns the well-known lack of staff of magistrates, which has caused problems relating to incompatibility in the treatment of trials, the need for the renewal of documents in the debate with regard to transferred judges and the consequent overload of roles and the slowing down of the judicial machinery. All this has resulted in a remarkable loosening of the fundamental criterion of proximity, removing the user citizen from the justice service, with the inevitable and clear positions taken by the lawyer, concretized in strikes to excess. Since the Ministry of Justice has set up a study commission, the Vietti Committee, which is to draw up a bill of delegation, my Group asks to know what objective criteria will be used for the reordering of the court of appeal, taking into account the critical elements already highlighted in the previous reorganization of the surroundings of the courts and the need to ensure a presence of the State and, in particular, of the judicial offices in the territories with high presence of crime. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Orlando.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u25	Mr President, the recovery of the efficiency of the judicial offices has been at the heart of our action since the inauguration of the Government. I have to say that I am happy to follow the logical line of your questions starting from what was last asked, that is, what happens with regard to judicial construction in the aftermath of the amalgamations. With the restructuring, which in truth represents the exercise of a delegation of a law of stability of a few years ago, we produced the amalgamation of a series of judicial offices, reducing by about 50 percent the building used by the Ministry of Justice on the territory. In the face of this substantial reduction we have started another path, which is that of the transfer of competences in the management of the judicial offices from the municipalities to the Ministry. I think it was an appropriate step, because overall it healed a picture in which many waste had been determined because of a mechanism that meant that the agency that spent was not the same that it paid and in the territory this produced a series of bad uses of resources (I just say this) that made the use and the functionality of the buildings less efficient. We will take into account in detail the improvements made by this passage that really has epochal importance: we think that since the years Forty offices were run by municipalities and not by the Ministry of Justice. In the same period we started the telematic civil process, which today led us to record a deposit of almost 4 million digital native acts, which therefore exceed the paper ones altogether. We have joined the judges with a trial office and for this we have allocated 17 million euros and we have started a path to enter new staff into the gates. The Stability Act had set aside resources for 4,000 additional units; following the abolition of the Provinces, or rather the reform of the Provinces, we were asked - I think rightly - to use first the employees of the Provinces who were made redundant. So there was a passage of a few hundred units, but less than they expected, so much so that yesterday the Chamber's Justice Commission was able to approve an amendment that, using the remaining resources in relation to the financing of mobility, provides a competition of 1,000 units for stationery employees, thus giving a response that I consider significant, although not yet sufficient compared to all the findings that have come to determine. During this same period we started a process of retraining staff who had not seen similar processes since the end of the 1990s. The first tranche will concern - I'm going to remember - something like more than 1,100 people; however, by implementing the Brunetta law, it is simply a matter of putting in parallel mobility and new recruitments to requalifications, because this prescribes the law. Therefore, once the mobility has been completed and the competition has started, we will be able to retrain other employees. With regard to the individual questions that have been asked and which I believe to be right to include in a general context, I would say that the general offices of Vicenza urgently need to recover the human resources to be allocated to the effective functioning of the judicial machinery, since the office has a coverage rate of 22.48 per cent compared to the national average of 21.72 per cent (therefore it differs relatively little) and to the district one of 19.36 per cent. Thanks to the actions already started of mobility six units have been put into service and it is still possible to use the scrolling of the existing ranking for the cover of an ulterior place. In addition, following the sharing of the ranking of a competition launched by the Institute for Foreign Trade, it was possible to cover two posts of official and the sliding procedure is still under way to cover a further position. In 2015, a unit belonging to protected categories was also employed. With regard to the further ongoing procedure, according to the stability law, other units may be assigned to the office through the portal managed by the Department of Civil Service. For the Province of Vicenza were also identified thirteen units. Finally, eight trainees were assigned to the Vicenza trial office, six of which are already operational. With reference, however, to the questions posed by Senator Giarrusso, I refer that the percentage of coverage of the administrative staff of the court of Naples is equal to 28,14, destined to decrease to the outcome of the definition of the mobility ban. With reference to the facilities of the offices, I communicate that the Ministry has carried out an overall survey of the needs of the offices throughout the territory and is redefining the organic plants of the judiciary, with consequences of course also on the administrative staff. As regards the so-called first-line courts, the tribunal of Reggio Calabria, according to the proposal that we are about to move forward to the Supreme Council of the judiciary, would foresee an increase in the organic plan of seven units, which I believe would be able to respond to the load that has come to be determined. There is no desire to abolish new offices of first instance and this, among other things, is not the subject of the Vietti Commission's reflection, which has indicated certain quantitative criteria (a court of appeal for at least one million inhabitants). In truth, that study today is submitted to the evaluation of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and does not yet express the will of the Government, which will be formed after the acquisition of the opinion of that body. As far as the question of the Court of Cassation is concerned, I have no difficulty in accepting the invitation that has been made. Senator Caliendo will know that a study group has been set up between the Ministry of Economics and Finance and the Ministry of Justice to address the situation of tax justice. We do not exclude that the outcome of that work can come to the proposal that you have put forward and that you could also find a first acceptance when approving the draft law on civil justice, which should be submitted as soon as possible to the competent Commission in this area of Parliament and which has already been approved by the House. As regards the issue of juvenile justice, I would like to stress that we are not faced with a desire to suppress juvenile justice, but to place it in a broader context, in which we deal overall with the issue of the functioning of the family and any pathologies that may have repercussions on jurisdiction. From this point of view I believe that this intervention is even more urgent in the aftermath of the intervention of the legislator that has greatly reduced the jurisdiction of the court of minors and has fragmented them between a number of different subjects within the jurisdiction. The result is that there are some offices, Senator Mussini, which really have very little work to do (let me say so). I will produce the workload of some courts of minors as soon as possible. It is a pity, because there are, as you recalled, very high-value competences, which within the framework of jurisdiction could give a very significant response. Our aim is to build a wider and more robust structure, which is able to enhance the work of the legal culture that has supported the development of the action of the courts of minors in our country. I think I've run out of all the questions I've been asked. For any further clarification, the Ministry remains at your disposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u28	FILIPPIN (PD). Minister, I welcome your clarification and information, especially with regard to the tribunal and the Vicenza Public Prosecutor. Of course, I call on all of us to monitor the correct application of the rules and, in particular, the correct application of the competition rules, because in fact the vacancies in our justice system need to be covered as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u31	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, my speech is more than a reply. It is an appreciation of what you have said. In particular, I would like to stress that the judicial organisation - you know this better than I do - is the only sector of the Ministry of Justice that has not been requalified. I believe that we will have to pay particular attention because there is a need to reward those who work and this should be done, if possible, before the Province staff arrives, who will have another type of qualification compared to the current staff.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u34	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Minister, thank you for the explanations which, however, do not satisfy us. The problem is not to expand the organic plant of the court of Reggio Calabria, which will expand only the percentage of places discovered, increasing the places that are already discovered. From Reggio Calabria, in fact, we have been told that there is cover of the places of the office of the gip. An extraordinary intervention was required. We appreciate the passage of the administration of the judicial offices to the Ministry, but I believe that the first examples are bankrupt. Just the court of Reggio Calabria the day before yesterday was closed because there was no light and water, Catania lacks air conditioning and you can hardly hold the hearings: if this is the management passed by the municipalities to the Ministry, we are, unfortunately, in the high sea.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u37	MUSSINI (Mixed). Minister, in my question I asked you in particular about two aspects: autonomy and specialization, which are certainly not guaranteed if these important services are absorbed by the ordinary courts and if it is not clarified in a very transparent and definitive way also the exclusive function of the specialised sections constitutes. By the way, it seems to me that yesterday the Supreme Council of the judiciary decided in this direction with a unanimous opinion. The good functioning of this world is closely linked, as you said, to the taking of possession of a matter in an organic way, but it is also closely linked to the entire population that revolves around the service, which are not only the togati magistrates, who must be specialized and have this function exclusively, but also an entire world that must work with them with an exclusive function. Otherwise, the idea is that, in reality, we want to rationalise and achieve savings on those who may be worth protecting for the future more than many others. I remember that we have the lowest number of inmates in juvenile prisons and the lowest number of repeats in Europe. This is a heritage to be preserved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u40	Mr Barani (AL-A). Minister, of course, we are pleased with your reply. My group and I do not see the WSM with good eye: we would be doing away with it, because when you spoke of the combinations saying that it will be the WSM that makes a proposal, it is as if in a football match the coach of a team would get arbitrary: the result would be distorted and it would not be fair. Minister, we have also seen your extraordinary capacity to retrain your staff and we believe that this is a key point, because we believe that the courts should have qualified staff and, above all, that trials should be done even if there is no air conditioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u43	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we take note of the Minister's reply, which at least testifies to the attempt to resolve a problem. As the Minister himself said earlier, these are probably not decisive measures, at least as far as the Vicenza Court is concerned. Surely these are late interventions and when we intervene late in the field of justice we create accumulations of practices and arrears, which takes a long time to get rid of.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u46	IN MAY (CoR). Minister, we appreciate the effort your Dicastery is making, in an effort to make the area of justice more usable, which is, among other things, extremely delicate, even in the light of the economic recovery of our country. However, as you have rightly pointed out in response to our questions, it is the criteria that should often be assessed much more carefully. As representative of Basilicata, for example, I am afraid of the criterion of the million inhabitants, compared to which a region like ours, which does not exceed 550,000 inhabitants, would see abolished, all of a ban, the court of appeal and the court, in Potenza and Matera. I believe that, even with regard to the criterion of favoring justice in the best possible way, other solutions, which do not have the right element only in the quantitative criterion, must be evaluated.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u47	Let us now turn to questions on prison conditions, which Mr Orlando will answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u50	GINETTI (PD). Minister, in these two years of government and considerable parliamentary activity, the results obtained on the overcrowding of prisons, following the condemnation by the European Court of Human Rights, by the judgment of Torreggiani, from Decree-Law Nos 78 and 146 of 2013, up to the simplification of access to alternative measures to detention. So we have fully implemented the constitutional arrangement, although today it seems that the measures cited have ended their deflagration effect and the institutions have returned to being overcrowded: today 54,000 prisoners count and the most crowded regions are Lombardy, Sicily, Campania and Lazio. Therefore, the Minister is asked what will be done on this front to lighten the situation, also because it coincides with an increase in critical events, also linked to that new operating and management mode introduced, with open cells and dynamic surveillance, which if not accompanied by handling affects critical events. In addition, I would ask the Minister at what point is the negotiation with the trade unions for the realignment and reordering of the prison police force, which is called every day, in a spirit of service and sacrifice, to provide its work to ensure security and order within the institutions. Finally, I would like to ask what action will be taken to implement, after forty years, a specific system for minors, since we have intervened in these forty years with sporadic and non-organic interventions. Finally, I would like to ask what is to be done about the quality of the construction of prison institutions (in particular, I am thinking of the institute in Sollicciano, also reported with a specific agenda by the City Council from Florence).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u53	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. Minister, there are two issues I put to you. The first concerns the condition of life in prisons. You know better than I do that in the last parliamentary term a process has finally been started for the realization of 4,250 places held, which have been partially completed in this parliamentary term, while other interventions have been carried out by your government, in particular as regards the reduction of the number of prisoners. We probably need to continue with the construction of further places in prison. The second aspect concerns the purpose of the sentence and the necessary work to be carried out by prisoners. As you know, we have again increased the financing ceiling for the Smuraglia law to 10 million in this parliamentary term, but it is reduced to almost 4 million for work in prisons. I think we need a further step: to use the prisoners also for different jobs within prisons, they were also small maintenance of the prison structure, for the purpose that we must give to the penalty and in the awareness that the work can give the prisoner a hope and the certainty of not relapse. That is why I believe that we should try all the means, even when we do not have the economic means, putting in place practical tools such as the use of prisoners in prisons.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u56	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Minister, the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights have defined the work of prisoners as a fundamental right. Yet in our country there are only a small number of prisoners who enjoy this right, unlike in many other European states and of course in the United States. There are many advantages of prison work. Prisoners are offered the opportunity to acquire skills that can be spent on the labour market, at the end of the punishment. It also facilitates the reintegration of prisoners into society, with a clear reduction in the possibility of returning to crime later, as shown by many statistics, which see an appreciable reduction in the rate of relapse among workers inmates. Not least, work would undoubtedly also have a positive effect on the psychological state of the people who are forced into prisons. At present, not only very few prisoners are working on rotation and in a discontinuous way, but only 1% of them are in the ordinary maintenance of the buildings, where the administration is forced to spend substantial public resources on external procurement or, more frequently, to give up the maintenance activity due to a lack of resources. In the light of what has been said, Minister, what are the reasons why in our country the number of workers in prison continues to be very small, despite all the advantages we have presented, and whether and how it intends to proceed, limited to its competences, in giving full application to work in prison as an essential component of the process of re-education guaranteed by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u59	MUSSINI (Mixed). Minister, I will make this logical passage. Prison overcrowding is certainly one of the critical nodes of our country's judicial system. We have seen a downward trend, which has also been linked to changes in the system of repression of crimes. The most recent measures put in place to remedy this situation have contributed to a significant increase in the number of convicted persons, to which the order, in the presence of certain conditions, recognizes the possibility of atonement of the penalty imposed in different ways than the detention regime, which has certainly allowed to reduce the pressure and the overcrowding prison. It is clear that the next step concerns the judiciary, which in recent years has had to cope with a greater workload, in order to give concrete application to the institutions introduced by the legislator in order to mitigate prison overcrowding. Now, throughout the national territory there is a situation of serious discomfort, linked to these new needs that have been added and to the deficiencies of the organic endowment of magistrates and administrative staff that is structured, trained and stabilized. You yourself, Minister, recently arranged for integration with regard to the cities of Bologna and Modena. However, I would like to remind you that the specific territorial reality of the district of Bologna is particularly in crisis. I have sent you a question that goes into more detail of this reality and to which I hope you will respond promptly. To this is added the institute of the test involving the external criminal execution office. However, all these institutions, which certainly reduce prison overcrowding, need resources. I ask you, therefore, what action is being taken in order to ensure full and concrete effectiveness at the institution of adult testing?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u62	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, I refer to what Mrs Ginetti said in general terms about overcrowding. I come down in particular, because I share and subscribe to your intervention, to know why prisons are not built. In 2010 a prison plan was made by the then President of the Council Berlusconi in which several prisons were planned. So there was funding, there was money, there were bans and procedures were initiated, for example, for the extension of the prison in Catania. Mrs Ginetti reminded us that Sicily is at the top for overcrowding: 162 percent, according to the Ministry's data. The ban has been made and the winning company has therefore been determined. There was then an appeal to the TAR and the company that appealed was found to have been awarded; at that point documents were requested for the signing of contracts. However, the Council of State in December 2015 established that the winner of the notice was the first contractor. From that moment on, prison's gone, it's no use. Yet more than 2 million euros have already been spent that the Ministry will have to pay. The question therefore arises as to whether there is any intention to proceed with such an extension and to request the signature of the contract, since the documents have all already been requested, and whether, since they are a public contract which has remained for a long time and inexplicably firm, it is not intended to affect the DAC of the matter as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u65	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the conditions of prisons in Italy, taking for example, since I visited it twice, the surrounding house "Torre del Gallo" of Pavia (my city) which, although only slightly overcrowded, raises more than a few concerns. The prisoners have long denounced the serious state of decay and almost absent maintenance of different sections; the kitchen premises and the shower room of the old pavilion are in particularly critical sanitary conditions, with the presence of molds, infiltrations, mice and falling calcinacci. A particular concern is the condition of an Italian citizen who is detained there, who, because he is suffering from diabetes, has been amputated a lower limb, and who is forced to be cared for in daily hygiene by a cellmate (this is specifically a foreigner). Mr. Andrea Gambis, section 1, cannot wash himself because the shower room lacks the handrails and the necessary aids for disabled people. Equally serious are the living conditions of the prison police, due to insufficient staff and systematic overtime, which force staff to deal with potentially dangerous situations alone, such as aggression, suicide attempts or acts of self-injury. In addition, the administration will have to manage the imminent opening of a psychiatric center, requiring medical and health personnel not yet identified. Finally, I remember that the accommodations where police personnel are forced to reside, as most are out of office, with payment of a monthly contribution, are extremely cramped, unhealthy due to infiltrations, unfunctional and with inadequate bathrooms. I would therefore like to ask you whether it is not possible to modernise existing prisons at national level and to implement the training programmes of prisoners simultaneously, to improve their conditions in prison, perhaps from European funds such as the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ESF) and the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFIS), as the European Commissioner Vera Jourova recently called for.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u68	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I refer to the events at the prison of Le Novate in Piacenza. These events date back to the beginning of May, during which some foreign prisoners, chanting to Allah and ISIS, have completely broken up a section of the prison, forcing the intervention of the prison police in an anti-riot estate. Now, the riot's motivation was in the very bad condition of the prison. It was difficult to seek calm and return to normal prison conditions because indeed these gentlemen were, among other things, in a state of drunkenness, and then there were difficulties also on the part of the mobilized agents themselves, who lacked tools, such as batons (among other things, these prisoners benefit from the open regime, like those who have good conduct). For this reason, the various agents of Sappa also denounced the facts, lamenting in particular the situation regarding the leadership.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u71	IN MAY (CoR). Minister, in compliance with the regulatory requirements, the special regime provides for the custody of prisoners within special sections supervised by specialised prison police personnel who should be, as well as adequately trained, proportionate in numbers to the population in possession of such a regime. In fact, I don't know if it is known to you, but the only structure that in the state is suitable for the pursuit of the purposes provided for in article 41- bis of the prison law turns out to be the surrounding house of Sassari. Is there a design, about fourteen years later, designed to conform the prison building to what is regulated? We learn from some press articles that specialized prison police personnel are reduced compared to the increase of those under the 41-a regime. So I ask you to know if they can devote themselves to the activity for which they are trained? Is there a predefined organic plant of the departments in question and, if so, is it respected? Are there training/updating courses specifically dedicated to specialised departments and, if so, how often are they carried out? In other words, is there a coherent programme for the selection, training and integration of specialised staff suited to the needs of the special scheme? Moreover, in the field of prevention, it would be interesting to know whether the assignment of tasks specifically provided for by the reference standard (match control, control of interviews, listening to telephone calls) is left to chance or to the initiative and will of the individual directors of the institute, rather than the result of pre-established and homogeneous criteria for all institutions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Orlando.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u72	Mr President, a general point I would like to make is this. When this government was established, the rate of overcrowding of prisons was considerable. However, I do not want to take that date as a reference, but rather the maximum point of the overcrowding process, because it takes account of a work that has been done. The prisoners were 60,971, compared to about 44,000 places available. Currently there are about 54,070 prisoners, compared to 49,701 places available. But that is not enough to give an answer. Rather, I would like to start from a consideration of a statement I have heard in this House on other occasions, namely that the reduction in overcrowding would have had an impact on the security dimension. I would like to remind you that, in view of the 21,000 persons admitted to alternative measures at the prison in December 2010 (which I always take as the reference year and the peak of the crisis), they are currently subject to alternative measures at the prison 42,990 people; in December 2010, 80,465 people were executed, currently 97,060 people: this means that the activity of control and execution of the sentence by the State has not decreased with the decrease of overcrowding. With regard to this starting point, which is still not fully satisfactory, I was basically asked what we are still going to do about overcrowding. The government's lines of action are essentially three. First, work must be targeted at further use of alternative penalties. In this sense we have strengthened - and we are working further in this direction - the external criminal enforcement offices, also establishing a Department within the Ministry that deals jointly with juvenile justice and external criminal execution, because the testing was not casually elaborated and tested before within the juvenile and then was transferred by the legislator also in the field of adults. That is therefore a reality in which the concept of exercising alternative penalties and so-called community sanctions can be fully developed. The other line on which we want to move and are moving is the repatriation of foreign prisoners. I would point out that we have been talking about this for a very long time, but to my surprise when I joined the Ministry I discovered, for example, that there was no extradition treaty with a nation that helps to determine a significant proportion of prisoners, namely Morocco. The month following my inauguration I went to Rabat to sign this agreement, which, of course, still awaits execution but which is the prerequisite for this type of activity. At the same time we worked on the front of countries with which relations were established to increase the flow of return of foreign prisoners, especially with Albania and Romania. I believe that some signs have arrived and some numbers comfort us in this respect, but we are still not really up to the expectations we have. Thirdly, there is another work that we have prepared: I have signed with almost all the Italian Regions protocols for criminal execution for drug addicts, so that the indication is fully respected, contained among other things in the law Fini-Giovanardi, that allows the execution of alternative punishments in community when precisely there are certain requirements, execution that today is not fully realized because many Regions do not make available the necessary places and therefore the magistrate of surveillance is in the condition of not being able to assign the alternative penalty. That said, we have also worked on increasing the availability of places and the numbers say so. We did so by completing some works that were already in itinere. I inaugurated the Rovigo prison and by the end of July the Vicenza prison will be inaugurated. We have used judicial psychiatric hospitals - which are in fact prison facilities - as soon as they were closed, and we have suggested further interventions, less than were foreseen in the so-called prison plan launched by the Berlusconi government. We believe, in fact, that an adequate development of alternative penalties can also make it possible to have objectives that are less high than all the available places; in our opinion, the system should be set at around 53,000 to 54,000 prisoners, a number that currently results. Of course, in this data there was inevitably an element of alea, because we did not know if the accounts could return, also because the variables are many. It is not just a question of understanding on average what offences are being prosecuted at one stage rather than at another; on some occasions we have seen peaks and growths that are not easily predictable because in the middle there is the activity of a procedural nature, with all its speed and slowness, depending on the type of crime contested. However, we begin to believe that the settlement is there, because after an increase that in the last six months had returned to characterize the number of inmates - who had gone from under 53,000 to 54,000 this month - this is the first month, if I am not mistaken after six, in which the inmates returned to descend, albeit a little. However, this month there has been a decrease, which we believe may mean that we have come closer to the point of balance. Does that mean we don't have to jail anymore? No, in some cases we had thought we could avoid the realization of some prisons, but we must consider the rate of overcrowding Region by Region because the fundamental point is that many prisoners are entitled to a guarantee of territorial bond with some realities. Well, this figure is not homogeneous, in the sense that there are Regions where we are below 100% and others where we are still significantly above 100%, which is why we believe that some reconsiderations should be made. From this point of view, with respect to the prison of Catania, which on a first occasion had been excluded from the joint table (I would like to remind Senator Barani that with the overcoming of the commissioner, the Ministry of the realization of the prisons is that of the infrastructures), we consider necessary a reconsideration, after that first evaluation, because probably that balance has not yet been achieved in Sicily. As far as the individual situations that have been raised are concerned, I shall briefly address them. With regard to the question raised by Senator Stefani, I would like to remind you that the district attorney in Bologna is still investigating that episode today. It was quickly contained by the direction of the surrounding house; in fact, neither officers nor prisoners were injured and it was not even necessary to close the detention section. As regards the emphasis on the application of the regime open to foreign prisoners of Islamic religion protagonists of the episode, it is evident that the management immediately took all the measures and that the special surveillance regime was not applied because for one of the foreign prisoners the procedure of expulsion from the territory of the State, which was immediately implemented, and for another because of its serious psychiatric conditions that did not recommend it. As far as the subject of work is concerned, I would like to report on how we have carried out a significant action which has seen, in the reports we have presented to Parliament over the past few years, a constant increase in work within prisons, albeit a little. During 2015, 267 projects were financed by the Cassa degli fines, while 148 projects of the same kind have already been submitted since early 2016. What do I think we should and can still do? We have done a job to carry out a relief even in compliance with the Smuraglia law. I have to say that the entrepreneurial responses have been contained, so much so that we are thinking of establishing a person who carries out a permanent activity of promoting the use of work within the prison, who, like all other types of work, works if they cross supply and demand, otherwise the only work that can be carried out is maintenance. However, I would like to remind Senator Cappelletti that when I issued that decree there was a controversy that did not take into account the shared arguments that you pointed out: it was said, very banally, that we wanted to facilitate the work of those who were inside and that we cared about those who were outside. I did not take that indication into account, but I have to say that I would have liked to have had more political forces to counter that controversy, because I believe that battles should be waged even when, as in this case, they do not give much popularity. I believe that this is a fact that we will have to remember, because in order to continue this work we will encounter many other obstacles of this nature, that is cultural and populist argumentation, but I believe that they must be fought with the arguments that you have submitted to this debate and that I fully agree with. I would also like to emphasise - and I say this also because all political forces are present in this House and can be an active part of it - how there is even more to encourage the use of the work of prisoners under the convention signed with the National Association of Italian Municipalities, which still uses this instrument with great caution, also in this case many times because of fear of controversy concerning the issue of security. I would like to remind you that the experiments that have been carried out have produced very positive results and that I believe should be absolutely encouraged. With regard to the issue from the prison of Sollicciano, placed by Senator Ginetti, I would like to report that the situation has clearly improved on the side of the structure, the living conditions of the prisoners and with specific reference to the strengthening of the treatment activities, thanks to the actions that we have undertaken over the last months, as has also recognized the National Guarantor of the rights of the detained persons. These first results encourage us to continue a work that must of course be completed. I would also like to take up another question which has been raised, namely how we think we can respond to the fundamental role played by the prison police. I am honored to be the prime minister who has acted in the direction of aligning the careers of the Prison Police Corps with the other Corps. As you know, however, Senator Ginetti, the necessary passage is that of the connection with the other police forces, as contained in the draft law Madia. In this direction we are acting, on the one hand interlocating with the other administrations and on the other working in a constant confrontation with all the trade unions. There are - it is true - training activities for those who perform special functions, who have a periodic frequency, of which honestly I would not know exactly how to report the terms, but I will do so as soon as possible through a note. To the question of whether organic plants were sufficient, I have to say no, just as I think most of my colleagues who have a portfolio would answer, and who objectively take advantage of the fact that there has been a multi-annual turnover block throughout the public administration. In the framework of the Security Decree there was a forecast for the recruitment of an additional number of prison police officers. We hope that these recruitments can be carried out as soon as possible, and I am already actively involved in this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u75	GINETTI (PD). Minister, we can be satisfied with the path you have indicated, both with regard to the increase of posts to 49,701 for prisoners and with this line of direction in strengthening external criminal execution, which we naturally hope will also be able to achieve the strengthening of external enforcement offices, in the various professional figures that are still missing. Thank you for the attention you continue to devote to speeding up the development of the prison police force and the realignment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u78	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I agree with 90% of what you have said, because there is a need for economic commitment. The only thing we do not agree on is that I believe it is necessary at least to create another 3,000 places in prison, in order to make the compatibility between available places and the number of prisoners now stable. One last note on the prison police: we must recognize that, beyond the laws, if there had not been the professionalism of the prison police, the commitment and his self-denial, we would not have resolved, nor could we face overcrowding. I ask you: commit to realizing the realignment (we have not succeeded in the past legislature) between the prison police forces and the other police forces, carried out by law but immediately rendered null by a subsequent competition a few months after the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u81	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, Minister, we will not be satisfied until we succeed in overturning the percentage of inmates who work and of inmates who remain throughout the day in the idleness of their cells. Let's start at least from the ordinary maintenance of prisons and buildings: it would already be a good departure and would be a step of civilization (I use this term). We would reduce the rate of relapse and ultimately increase the safety of our cities.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u84	MUSSINI (Mixed). Minister, you have not answered me, but I thank you for coming and answering other questions, even if not to this one, and you have certainly done much more than your colleague Giannini, who never comes here, so I am extremely grateful to you. I would like to reiterate that the problem of overcrowding prisons will only really be tackled when all that diverse world is also being addressed at the same time, with shared responsibilities and various and extensive competences, contained in the measures - which I share - which focus more on rehabilitation and integration. Otherwise it will become just one download elsewhere costs, responsibilities and concerns.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u87	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, I am partially satisfied. I am satisfied with the general issues, which you have addressed very well and which actually give a better picture of the situation: undeniable the numerical data you have provided and the three points you have well developed on alternative penalties, on the repatriation of foreign prisoners (objectives absolutely to be pursued) and on the attention to drug addiction. On the other hand, I find myself less satisfied - let alone dissatisfied - with the fact that the issue of prison maintenance has not been dealt with. There are prisons like that of Pavia, which I have visited several times and which, having been built at the time of the scandal of the prisons of gold, with poor material, pours into truly dramatic conditions, even if it is of the eighties. In this sense, I would also share the idea of my colleague Cappelletti to make small maintenances even for prisoners. I also saw that no attention was paid to the disabled. In particular, prison police activity has also dealt with career aspects, but there are trivial problems concerning the barracks, which is worth visiting because it is almost unbelievable; yet they also pay a monthly contribution that they are forced to make.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u90	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, of course, the Minister's statement to reconsider the intervention on the Bicocca penitentiary in Catania in order to achieve it satisfies me, partly because we would remove that 162 percent overcrowding that this prison I visited records. We agree that action should also be taken where there is no overcrowding. I take the example of my Tuscany, where we are below 100%, yet the intervention on the prison in Livorno is carried out. There is therefore to be rebalanced at national level, as Mr Ginetti and others have said in their speeches. I am satisfied and thank you, Minister, for the courage you have to take up and help Sicily as well, and in particular the mayor of Catania who needs certainty in prison building for the city's problems.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u93	IN MAY (CoR). Minister, thank you very much especially for the intellectual honesty with which you have answered my questions. That puts me in a position to propose. You will certainly know that I am not one who has shared much of the reforms your Government has made; indeed, for the vast majority I do not share them, but I would suggest that you try to make a further reform in the penitentiary system looking above all to those who are to administer the Department of the penitentiary administration avoiding for the near future that you send to those judicial roles close to retirement. Perhaps managers within those facilities could produce different results.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u94	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Orlando for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u95	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-661.ana.u96	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 19 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.13 p.m.
