ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 17 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 15.06).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is just a few hours ago that we heard about the dramatic terrorist attacks that have struck the city of Brussels. The information received this morning reports of explosions in the departure room of the airport of the Belgian capital and other deflagrations within the metro, near the premises of the European institutions. A little more than four months have passed since the attacks in Paris and again we are facing heinous acts of violence and the lucid murderous madness of those who reject the foundations of civil coexistence. In addition to their tragic nature, these attacks also take on a symbolic significance, since striking Brussels means striking Europe and its values; the response must therefore be united and united in a framework of firmness. The Presidency expresses to the relatives of the victims and to the people of Belgium the sentiments of condolence and solidarity of the Italian Senate. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what happened in Brussels a few hours ago was not the only tragedy that struck our consciences. We were all shocked by the news of the tragedy that took place on Sunday morning near Tarragona, Catalonia, which has left in all of us a feeling of dismay and pain. As is well known, seven Italian students lost their lives in a terrible road accident that caused a total of 13 deaths and 34 injuries, some of which were in very serious condition. Francesca Bonello, Lucrezia Borghi, Valentina Gallo, Elena Maestrini, Serena Saracino, Elisa Scarascia Mugnozza, Elisa Valent, are the names of our girls who were in Spain as part of the Erasmus project. It is really difficult to resign oneself to the idea of how the dreams and expectations of these young students, set off to live an important opportunity for growth and human and cultural formation, have been so violently broken. It is a mourning that for its tragicity goes beyond the family dimension and becomes suffering of our whole community. To the families of Francesca, Lucrezia, Valentina, Elena, Serena, Elisa and Elisa go the embrace of all of us. In this case too, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1870, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 157.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u6	Mr President, we are here today because, in the end, the reform of the third sector, which came out of the Council of Ministers on 10 July 2014 and for more than a year under examination of the Chambers, arrived in the Senate Chamber, that is, after an exact year, despite the government's commitment to have the law passed by 2015. The text, approved by the House on 13 April, arrived at the Senate, which began to discuss it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs from 24 July. It should be remembered that with 5 million volunteers, 12,000 social cooperatives, at least 800,000 employed, over 300,000 active institutions, the nonprofit world accounts for about 4% of GDP. Thus, even in terms of employment, a law was expected to better regulate the third sector for about twenty years. The concept of a third sector - it should be remembered - derives from the consideration of the existence in the economic and social system of a first sector represented by the State and of a second sector constituted by the market. It is usually identified with the set of productive activities that do not fall within either the sphere of traditional capitalist enterprise or that of public administrations. In short, the third sector consists of all those realities that, within our socio-economic system, are halfway between state and market; they integrate its functions, covering strategic spaces for the institutions and for the life of democracy itself. Various organizational structures (associations recognized and non-associations, foundations, committees) and by legal nature (social cooperatives, social promotion associations, voluntary organizations, non-governmental organisations, mutual assistance societies and social enterprises and ONLUS), the realities of the third sector have in common some fundamental characteristics, including the absence of profit, which results in the obligation to reinvest any profits in institutional activities and in the private legal nature. They work in many areas such as social assistance, health, culture, sport, international cooperation, education and research, the environment, economic and social development, religious promotion and training, and the promotion of volunteering. We are reasonably critical of this bill. In fact, as always and more often happens, what is stated aloud by the majority does not correspond then to the content of the texts proposed. This draft law covers 300,000 non-profit organisations and nearly 5 million volunteers. Too bad that the much-swarmed participation from below has concerned only a modest 10% of the complex world of no profit. After an uncertain process, which at times caused fear of the provision of the measure for inability to bear its economic burden, last week the work in the Commission was closed to surprise, but not before the Government presented a somewhat doubtful amendment for the establishment of the Italian Social Foundation, punctually renamed the IRI of social. Fortunately, the oppositions - in particular, we Conservatives and Reformists - have had to point out the perplexities dictated by the establishment of this body, also through an incisive amending activity, the result of which was the withdrawal of the amendment (it is now necessary to see the form in which it will be proposed in the Assembly). However, the doubt about the economic cover has remained. It is, in fact, a delegation that is absolutely unfunded and, in this regard, all the other oppositions and even some of the majority have agreed that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is charged with a mass of new tasks, but, on the other hand, it is not given resources. There is talk of universal civil service, but there is no such universality because resources are lacking and calls are not published, as has been mentioned. They give a shy approach and a shy endorsement of a new type of social enterprise but, at the same time, they refuse to apply fully the legislation for social start-ups in terms of favorable taxation for those investing - citizens or businesses - and they say it would cost too much (some percentage point compared to normal favor tax, for the benefit of innovative start-ups, so to speak, simple). Not to mention the other profiles left inexorably by the draft law under consideration, such as the recognition of the professional figure of family caregivers (i.e. volunteers who take care of loved ones in conditions of non self-sufficiency), which to date does not exist in Italy. On 13 January 1986 the European Parliament adopted a resolution which identified the importance of the unpaid work of women. At European level, legislation in many countries provides specific safeguards for family caregivers, including welfare vacation aids, economic benefits and social security contributions, as is the case in France, Spain and Great Britain. On this point too, the parliamentary group to which I belong has tabled an amendment, the aims of which have, however, been disregarded. From this point of view, this is a very good opportunity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u7	Mr President, the issue we are discussing here today concerns the reform of the third sector. The Government has presented yet another delegation to itself to reform an area in which private interests can be hidden using the tax and non-tax facilities reserved for companies dealing with solidarity. One of the changes in the text concerns the deletion of the deadline for the submission of draft legislative decrees to the Chambers for the expression of the opinion which - let us remember - is not binding. According to Article 17, paragraph 2, of Law No 196 of 31 December 2009, any charges arising from the implementation of the delegation must be compensated within the delegation itself. Since you have realized that the extension of the audience of beneficiaries of tax relief will result in additional charges for the treasury and thus higher expenditure for the State, you have changed this part by adding the following words: If one or more legislative decrees determine new or higher charges which do not have internal compensation, the same legislative decrees shall be issued only after or at the time of the entry into force of the legislative measures, including the Stability Act, which allocate the necessary financial resources. Not content with this economic-accounting game, you have given a further delegation to the President of the Council to identify and update the sectors and activities related to the third sector, acquired the opinion of the competent parliamentary committees. Here too, however, the opinion will not be binding. Apparently, therefore, you seek the sharing and direction of Parliament, but in fact you are also carrying this sector under the hegemony of the President-in-Office of the Council. What about the Government's amendment for the establishment of the Italian Social Foundation? Randomly, the first version of the amendment also indicated the legal seat of this foundation (fortunately Milan). This seat will not be connected by chance to the new section of the Frecciarossa Arezzo-Florence-Milan at 7 am, but it lacks the high speed line between Arezzo and Florence and therefore is always late? This government is a set of conflicts and suspicions. I remember for information that it is a few days ago the opening of investigations for fraudulent bankruptcy towards the entire board of directors of the Etruria Bank, which also involves the father of Minister Boschi. All that the executive in office has done so far confirms its negligence and incompetence, putting at risk the balance of the country. What delegation could we give to this government team? At the most, the reform of misinformation, which is skillfully carrying out to the detriment of all citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u8	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we finally come to the debate in this House on this measure, nineteen months after the draft was approved by the Council of Ministers and almost a year (it was in fact 9 April 2015) since its approval in the House. It cannot be said that the Government's commitment to the measure under consideration was pressing and, as always happens with the executive in office, to a correct will to face and put order in an important area, follow laughable results. It had already happened with the weak school reform, which with a little more courage could have turned into a good reform, with the constitutional reform, which had some positive aspects, which was then shipwrecked into a sea of contradictions and errors; it had happened with the jobs act, which did not have the ability to really address the problems of the world of work, despite the good intentions and the tweets that our Prime Minister pointed out. The attempt to put order in the third sector, after years of impetuous development, was also an intention to be welcomed. We are talking about a heritage of the country grown thanks to the various measures of the Berlusconi governments (the law no. 155 of 2003, said of the good Samaritan, and measures like that on the 5 per thousand), which had understood not only the great economic potential, but the profound social value. The place of true subsidiarity, of commitment to the weakest, of the correct substitution of state and state aid with liberal and non-binding initiatives for common resources: this was and is for us the ideal portrait of the third sector, indispensable especially in this time when social cohesion is weakening in the face of epochal economic crises, scenarios of war, terrorism and wild immigration. Not only that. It is also a demonstration of how effective fiscal policies can be aimed at enabling individual citizens to intervene to help those who care for others. We are talking about about 5 million volunteers, 12,000 social cooperatives, more than 800,000 employed: a 4% impact on GDP. All this definitely deserved faster times, special attention and better insights. On the other hand, the way of delegation has been chosen essentially in blank, which merely indicates the need to reorder and revise disciplines, without providing for the quality and guidelines of this reorder, which is also necessary. It seems, in short, to perceive an action of simple bureaucratic filing, of improvement of the existing, without being able to draw the path of the future, without even trying to understand what the trends for the development of the field will be. As always, a poor measure, without courage, without prospects. This does not mean that there are some partly positive elements. Hoping that they do not remain a dead letter, however, they are commendable the intention to measure the effectiveness of the actions of those who work in the third sector, and the will to increase transparency and therefore to decrease the risk that scandals like Roma Capitale, all inside the third sector, are repeated. On this last point too, more courage would have been needed, more precise and precise delegation to intervene on the mechanisms for the distribution of contracts and funds, but the intention of the measure in this area must be positively assessed. It will be up to us to ensure that these weak lights in the delegation law are not switched off during the implementation of the delegations. Finally, there is one final point I want to consider. The rapporteur, at some point in the Commission's work, has tabled an amendment which would have upset not only the meaning of the measure, but the whole existence of the non-profit world in Italy. It was expected that a new institution, the Fondazione Italia sociale, would have the purpose of investing funds (states and private), directly or in partnership with other players, on projects in the third sector. In other words, it would have had the task of state mediation and of directing the funds that private citizens or companies intend to donate to companies in the third sector: as they have called it from several parts, in short, an IRI of the social. Well, thanks to the absolute opposition of all oppositions, this amendment has been withdrawn and re-absorbed on an agenda. Today, however, I understand, in the light of the speech we have heard, that this amendment, which had been deleted in the Commission, was again incorporated as an amendment by the rapporteur. So we will look at the substance of this new amendment. However, I want to say that we are deeply opposed to a clumsy and blatant attempt to get the state to intervene in a supply chain, the one between donors and organisations, which is now on the private field. On the contrary, I would like to point out that, where the third sector revealed pockets of corruption and crime, it was precisely when public money intervened, as in the cases of Rome or the CARA di Mineo. I want to close with a brief consideration. We would have needed, in such an important sector for our country, a far-sighted measure, capable of looking ahead, predicting possible futures, reducing risks and increasing their possibilities. As always, this is another missed opportunity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Mauro Mario]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u10	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u11	Mr President, volunteering has by its nature and typological constitution an educational and formative value which, however, now seems, increasingly, to be the opaque, inconspicuous, overturned aspect of a society aimed exclusively at profit. Volunteering makes us better people and citizens responsible for social affairs. We therefore welcome the reference contained in the text to Article 5 (1) (b), the school world and therefore to mutual help and mutual collaboration. The text speaks, in fact, of the promotion of the culture of volunteering, especially among young people, also through specific initiatives to be carried out in the context of educational structures and activities. This goes hand in hand with the "magnificent destinies and progressives" of Good School, where among the priority training objectives, according to article 1, paragraph 7, letter d) of Law No 107 of 2015, the development of competences in the field of active and democratic citizenship through the valorization of intercultural education and peace appears to be explicit............................................................................................................................................ We all know that beautiful African proverb that says that those who run alone go fast, but those who run together, with others, go far. Unfortunately, however, volunteering is increasingly called upon to surrogate and buffer the shortcomings of the state organization, in many and too many areas: from health care to relief to people in need, from education to support for the disabled. A Republic based theoretically on work - but perhaps primarily on the dignity of the person - is increasingly based on the good will of the citizens and on the structures and infrastructures put in place by volunteering. Now, it is a fact that volunteering as a whole can start a virtuous process of great value and it is right that the State raises it to a system: one example of all is Save the children. However, before we even consider fears and demands that arise from the world of volunteering, we must consider the context in which these concepts are expressed. First, second and third; gold, silver and bronze; primary, secondary and tertiary; agriculture, industry and services: so far everything is clear, then difficulties begin. We can consider private initiative as the first sector, as the second sector in the public sector, but the third sector, ladies and gentlemen, what is it? Is it a linguistic survey or a journalistic definition, which has little legal status? Is it an ircocervo, that is a private initiative, but non-profit? Is it a well-buttoned dress behind which to hide, or hide your own interests? The fear, unfortunately founded and manifested practically entirely by the world of volunteering, about the new discipline of the third sector, millantata and promised in the draft law under consideration, is that the reform takes a different turn than the one declared and desired. In fact, it would seem that the priorities of the voluntary world are not being taken into account: the principle of subsidiarity, first and foremost, and the enhancement of the role of volunteering in society. If one thinks that, only in Umbria, there are more than 100,000 volunteers who assist the so-called weak groups, one can get an idea of how much volunteering affects people's quality of life and GDP, since so many other costs are paid by the health and social system. That is why it is necessary for the varied universe of volunteering to be properly recognised, colleagues, and to play a very precise role when the choices are made and not involved or used in things made. It is enough to think, for example, about the preparation of the Health Plan and the Regional Social Plan. The demands from the world of volunteering to be included in the reform law are above all those of maintaining the gratuitousness of performance, since volunteering does not want to become a business. The world of volunteering also calls for less bureaucracy on the side of controls, with a minimum range of expenses not to be considered income but what form of reimbursement. On the representation, then, it is asked not to cancel the current bodies of the third sector, clarity on the reform of the service centres for volunteering and the Advisory Committees for the management of the special funds for volunteering (COGE). Our much more widespread fear, however, is that it remains a shadow, a threat that weighs on the blurred design of this reform: that behind this great machine lies only the particularity of some who - in the face of the much praised social enterprise - from wanting to be recognized within the third sector can obtain income, relief and benefits. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u12	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u13	Mr President, all of us, without exception, say that we recognise the importance of the differentiated world of the third sector, but I wonder if everyone has a clear understanding of what it really means, for good and for bad, to volunteer in our country today; how exhausting and challenging it is. I want to underline the word "differentiate" because in the meantime we should begin with the understanding of good and to the end the plurality of reasons, sensitivity, operating modes and inspirations that live together today within the third sector. Statistics tell us about GDP generated by the third sector, large numbers, employees and volunteers, small and large associations; on the basis of my experience I hear that this evaluation criterion is being tightened up in the non-profit world. The metro on which an association (and in particular associations dealing with social and health issues) measures its activity day after day is another. Each day the managers of the associations ask themselves: How can I answer the need, how can I give him a voice? How is it possible to support the requests for services that local authorities no longer offer and to combat the growing isolation of the most vulnerable people and protect their rights? Who is my institutional interlocutor today? Am I subsidiary to institutional responsibilities or am I called upon to replace them? How to find the necessary resources? And then again: "Am I in compliance with the regulations?" (Translated with Google Translate) All these are real daily nightmares for every volunteer committed to running an association. There is a historical and cultural thread that comes from afar and that unites the plurality of identity typical of volunteering and of the whole third sector; a culture that has always lived around some essential values: attention for people in the flesh and bones starting from the weakest ones, the non-achievement of profit, solidarity and gift; a particular gift, which certainly can also be represented by something material, but which above all is a gift of self, of one's own time, of one's own skills and abilities, many or few that are. This is the true sense of gratuitousness and non-profit purposes. Gratuitousness is not an abstract value around which perhaps even fuel some philosophical controversy. If we want to talk about concrete volunteering, the real one with its shadows and the many lights, what works as it can, day by day, we must have it quite clear that for an association to support free of charge means to reckon, very concretely and very little for free, with insurances, with petrol stations, with banks, with maintenance, with rents, with bureaucracy and with legislation that now says everything and the opposite of everything and that lends itself well as an alibi for a certain political transversal not to do anything, not to take decisions and not to assume responsibility (and the list could be very long). To be brief, I will try to focus my speech on a few concrete points, points which, pending the outcome of the broad delegation provided for in the draft law, I hope can be useful ideas for reflection for those who will have to translate into practice the guidelines of delegation present in the text of the measure. Law 266 of 1991 represented an important turning point for volunteering and the institutions of our country. This rule officially recognized the role, meaning and importance of the world of volunteering, a world that still had and has at its center the culture of solidarity, the gratuitousness, the democratic nature of its organizational institutions and, last but not least, the total absence of profit. That law defined obligations and opportunities, modalities of relations with the institutions, offered guarantees and placed constraints, all in a framework of exemplary clarity. From that date to today many things have changed and therefore it is not strange that volunteering has changed as well and that the world of non-profit has stratified and even excessively diversified. The objective of this draft delegation, among other matters, was - and I hope it is still - to ferry those principles, so well represented in Law 266, in today's changed situation. Volunteering has grown, taken on new, widespread responsibilities and has often remained only in its function of advocacy of entire social sectors. At the same time, the growing difficulties of public finance have led local authorities to unload new functions and responsibilities on it. For simplicity, I think we can say that, in some way, it was also "dopaed." Then came the financial crisis, with the end of most of the financial support, the consequent closure of projects, initiatives and services, all aggravated by fragmented legislation that, year after year, complicated until the unlikely regulatory framework. From the conventions of Law No 266 of 1991, clear and transparent, based on proven operational experience, today we have reached unacceptable forms of competitions, based, in essence, only on a bad economic priority, starting a kind of competitiveness even between different sectors of the same third sector, that is, creating real administrative, cultural and political monsters. We therefore have a responsibility over the years to have greatly contributed to the pollution of the waters of a world which by definition wanted to be the bearer of responsibility and operational transparency. It is clear that in this situation there have also been those who have been able to take advantage of it. But beware: it is okay to severely hit those who have done so and are good, simple and effective controls, but it is unthinkable to take advantage of this by generalizing and imposing on the whole of the third sector new and other forms of control not shared and not managed collaboratively. That the time had come to take note of the changes that have taken place, to simplify, clarify and to clean up the regulatory framework was now clear to all and therefore the Government has done well to set itself the objective of launching a comprehensive reform project for the whole third sector. A difficult and ambitious design, an articulated project, which presents many positive points and which, above all, has tried to confront the changes that have occurred in this very delicate social, cultural and economic sector. It has been accompanied by a dialogue and has opened hopes and expectations, however, in my opinion the project has returned to close itself in the final phase, in the actual institutional confrontation. This is a vast draft delegation and as such few changes can affect, then, very much in the process of carrying out the delegation. I have many good expectations, but my final judgment can only be postponed to the presentation of the final results. In the reform project, it is clear that the theme of social enterprise is central. I consider this centrality of the enterprise as a challenge, an operational and reference model to manage complex services, strongly structured and extended; but the model of the enterprise cannot represent an obligatory alternative to voluntary associationism based on its own specific planning and on the centrality of the direct relationship between men and women; a relationship that can not always respond to the logic of the purely virtuous balance between income and output, between giving and having. Precisely because this type of relationship can generate economic losses, the whole game of the forms of financing of the associative world becomes central for its continuity and its operational effectiveness. After all, this, combined with the question of the valorization of the activity of volunteers, are two of the fundamental nodes to which we are called to respond with clarity and simplicity; otherwise we do the useless dialectic on abstract things that have little to do with reality. The voluntary association must be able to maintain the possibility of managing complex services also using specific professionalism if organised independently, originally designed by associations or co-designed with local authorities to respond to needs, experiment, innovate or simply represent weak or marginalised social sectors. It is precisely in this case that the spirit of law n. 266 can and must be preserved, more than elsewhere, but redefining in the utmost clarity the economic, functional and call relationship with local authorities, simplifying to the maximum the management regulations starting from the entangled event of reimbursements to volunteers (which, within the limits of modest figures, could simply be traced back to the practice of sports associations). It says a proverb that the devil hides himself in small things, and the approval of the amendment to which I referred, little more than a little word, is the example. I am also sorry that one of the amendments adopted in the Commission removes the time limit of one year for presenting the results of the delegation. Mr President, I would ask you to hand over the rest of my speech so that it can be annexed to the report of the sitting, not before you have given a very brief last note on the creation of the Italian Social Foundation. Apart from the name, I have some concerns - which I would like to point out to the Government - about the way in which it operates and its initial financing. I do not understand why there should be a new structure financed by public resources, all the more so at a time when voluntary work and generally the whole of the third sector suffers from a very serious shortage of resources to support services that are now largely a substitute for public services. I hope, therefore, that the Government will rethink this foundation. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u14	The Presidency shall authorise you to deliver the written text.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u16	Mr President, I do not know whether it is more depressing to see how this Parliament has been reduced and democracy, forced to legislate by delegation, or the fact that we are seeing the bottom of the abyss against which we will shortly crash together with the whole nation. These ridiculous and general recommendations, which the Premier probably won't even read - I am sorry for my colleague Lepri - are yet another slap to all of us and millions of Italians. We have excellent precedents of how this Government has knowingly ignored the will of this Parliament, when, for example, it has included in the labors act decrees the faculty of collective dismissal that we had here, in these classrooms, asked by majority (and voted) not to allow. Of course I'm not surprised, but the question is inevitable: who benefits from being here to waste time? Maybe because we're just entertainment? We are a useless Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, a staging or worse a pantomime. The script of the session would predict that here it is now decided to delegate Renzi to reorganize the world of volunteering and civil service, improving it, blah, blah, blah, blah; but here - let's get to the point - the great idea: to transform volunteering definitively into precarious and free work. To tread the foundational value of a volunteer, that is, the disinterested gesture, even managing to lucrate on it. Exploiting people, while building the usual pyramid of exploitation and power, at the top of which is the "black death" of foundations, a central foundation of the Plenipotentiaries of Florence to manage in total public and private contributions, in a clientele way (we already know), while also cut on social, welfare and cultural spending. I do not know if it is clear what your plans are, but it should not be difficult to understand what you have in mind, since we have seen what you have been able to do with cooperatives, with rich contracts run by you parties in favor of businessmen friends and friends of friends, erasing workers' rights and human rights at one stroke. We have seen how you have taken advantage of the possibility of doing contracts to the maximum downside, as you have taken advantage of the externalizations, of the workers who are paid 3 euros per hour by your cooperatives. We saw the Buzzis, the Carminati, the volunteers-workers or workers-volunteers (as you want to call them), paid a misery with refunds in black, maybe vouchers, while the corrupt politicians of your parties broke into public money. We remember the cooperative La Cascina, the "migrants who make more money than drugs" Legacoop and Odevaine, the undersecretary Castiglione, NCD, PD, Alfano and CL. Let us not forget that these cooperatives do their own welfare and social services - yes! - and that, together with the whole sector of the third sector, associations, social cooperatives and the ONLUS, today they are called to keep at bay the citizens in need of services (sick, disabled, elderly, children and families), while the State abandons them to themselves and demolish public health, welfare, pensions, school, education, research, work, business, credit and savings. This is the objective: to demolish the social state and the economic fabric of the country, everything public and free exists for citizens (and maybe even efficient). It starts from above, as JP Morgan ordered, when for constitutional reforms he advised you to give up those socialist elements that impregnate our Constitution, according to them: and therefore reduce the sovereignty of the people, the possibility of expressing yourself with the vote and with the preferences, and then move to the jobs act and the destruction of the rights of the workers, without a rag of social shock absorber, accomplices and conniving your Confederal unions, always at the service of the parties. With salaries and hunger pensions, after the Fornero law, the blockages to pensions, the increases in the prices of bills, Italian families, young and elderly citizens and especially those who would need assistance are actually abandoned to themselves. If you have a disabled person or an elderly person in serious health in your family, you must die. If you're not dead yet, after you've even been taxed by the escort or welfare benefits, then the banks will take care of your home directly to the slightest difficulty. And when you're on the street like a bum, a volunteer from an association funded by a friend of Renzi's will hand you over. Dear citizen, these will make money on your ruin, they have no mercy. Lucrare is their reward, that is, the reward of the parties, while destroying the social and economic fabric on behalf and by mandate of the troika. So? So let's start again from the beginning: let's reject the constitutional referendum, let's take back sovereignty, let's vote and then change everything, including this ignoble law delegation, and give back the services to the citizens and the dignity that deserves to the voluntary and selfless gesture of the generous citizens. I understand that there are things that you cannot understand, so busy running criminal activities, so busy making laws in favor of banks and speculators friends and relatives. For those of you who don't run banks there is always a foundation ready. Good thing they're arresting you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have followed closely the development of the reform process in the third sector and, at the same time, I have followed it with apprehension, since the delegation is concerned with a vital area of society, with which it is forbidden to make mistakes. The next intervention of the Government will be decisive, but first of all the action of the Senate itself will be decisive in establishing principles, defining modalities of intervention and orienting the organization and the legal forms allowed. I would therefore like to focus only on a few critical aspects which, in my opinion, have not been adequately addressed in the text of the draft law and which, if approved, facilitate the development of worrying scenarios for most of the third Italian sector in the fields of social, cultural, environmental, etc. Since the definitions, there is little emphasis on the participatory profile, thus declaring little attention to appropriate participatory, democratic and territorially rooted governance. I also stress the lack of support and promotion of the text towards smaller associations and subjects, less structured and yet very deeply rooted in the territory. We are talking about 68 percent of all ISTAT individuals, who are at risk of being hindered and threatened in their very existence. I have even more doubts about one of the main novelties, the government amendment that establishes the Fondazione Italia sociale. In this case we are talking about a unicum which contains in itself funders and resources to be allocated to the third sector. First of all, a critical profile seems to me to be traceable in the legal nature of the foundation, which, while having a public purpose, will have a private legal nature and therefore not subject to certain transparency obligations. Nor do I share the initial allocation, as some colleagues have already said, to the State, of EUR 1 million. In spite of the logic of the free market, the foundation will have guaranteed from its inception a competitive advantage to the detriment of the other players operating in our territory. Not only that: first it is said to the nation that there are no resources, except then pull them out of the piggy bank to establish useless carriages. All this leads to the result of calamitating the area of philanthropy, which will perhaps find more suitable to move towards a structured and national-based pre-packaged agency than to lend its charitable work to territorial voluntary bodies. A logic therefore that distances the world of volunteering from the specific characteristics and needs of the territory. It is even more absurd that the foundation should be given complete discretion in determining the priorities and the choice of projects to be implemented and therefore financed. First, resources are attracted from resources, subtracting them from the current third private sector players, and then managing them centrally by penalising initiatives targeted at territories, and in particular at disadvantaged ones. It is a slap in the face, in my opinion, of the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 118 of our Constitution, which provides that "State, Regions, Metropolitan Cities, Provinces and Municipalities shall promote the self-appointed initiative of citizens, individuals and associates, for the conduct of activities in the general interest, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity". It is the principle that should inspire the institutions to create the conditions necessary to enable the individual and social groups to take their own initiative and act freely in carrying out their social activities. In this sense, it would have been better to take note of the different situation in the territories of the peninsula and differentiate the approach on the basis of the actual local needs. The umpteenth reform that turns its back on the citizens of the most peripheral and disadvantaged territories, this time is even more serious because it affects the articulated world of voluntary commitment, caging it into an institutional entity of national rank and therefore, in my opinion, centralist. If we kill the will for free initiative of the individual and associated citizens, if we put these realities in the wheel - or rather foundations in the wheel - what will remain of the local initiative? As President Mattarella says, it is necessary to promote the work of active citizens who in a free, autonomous and responsible way contribute to keeping democratic institutions standing, reaffirming the guarantee of civic commitment and associative freedom as a factor of growth of the social cohesion of the country; words and concepts that can be shared, but that will hardly find fertile ground because of the imprudent neocentralism that also characterizes the legislative initiative we are dealing with. This reform gives us a disappointing scenario, a precursor of non-communicable and centralist perspectives in its entirety. It is necessary to recognize in the action of citizens to organize themselves voluntarily in order to respond to the daily needs of society the founding historical motivation that has led to the origin of various subjects of the third sector; but here we have not been able to meet the challenge for the years to come, even coming to question the application of the principle of subsidiarity, since it is not ensured uniformity and equality throughout the territory. In this respect, it is necessary to avoid throwing into the nettles the experiences, for example, of work carried out in recent years by voluntary service centres which have been a decisive territorial reference point. In conclusion, I would like to remind the President of the Council and his Government that almost all activities are carried out by hundreds of thousands of citizens who have given meaning to the word subsidiarity by working where the State is absent or guilty of inadequate. Creating the foundations or yet another armchair will only degrade the work of so many citizens of good will and operational initiative who, for the umpteenth time, will see betrayed their commitment by interventions inspired by unbiased logic and in contrast with the spirit of initiative of the citizens. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u19	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u20	Mr President, before we go into the substance of the measure, I believe that some conditions need to be laid down in order to get a good picture of the path within which we are going to legislate. Over the centuries, the principle of subsidiarity has been applied in two different ways: vertical and horizontal. In its vertical dimension, subsidiarity is understood as a principle aimed at defining the spheres of influence of the individual administrations operating at different levels so as to act as the main guiding criterion of administrative activity. In fact, in the text of the Italian Constitution, before the reform of 2001, traces of the principle of subsidiarity were found both in the formulation of Article 2 (the Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man, both as a single person and in the social formations where his personality takes place, and requires the fulfilment of indispensable duties of political, economic and social solidarity) and in the systematic reading of Article 2 with the second paragraph of Article 3 (the Republic's task is to remove the obstacles of economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the country). In the Constituent Assembly, through an agenda of 9 September 1946, Dossetti proposed as the founding principle of the new Statute of democratic Italy the recognition of the substantial precedence of the human person understood in the completeness of his values and needs not only material but also spiritual with respect to the State and the destination of this at the service of that. The agenda went on to say that at the same time the necessary sociality of all people must be recognized, who are destined to complete and perfect each other through mutual economic and spiritual solidarity in various intermediate communities, arranged according to a natural gradual nature. Let us think of the family community, first of all, and then of the territorial, professional, religious, etc. And for everything that is not enough, the state intervenes. It is only in 1992, through the Maastricht Treaty, that the principle of subsidiarity acquires in an express way perceptive force, with natural reflections also for the Italian legal system. In fact, Article 3b of the Treaty, in its original wording, provided that, in areas which do not fall within its exclusive competence, the Community should intervene in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity only and in so far as the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scale or effects of the action in question, be better achieved at Community level. On the basis of the principle expressed at Community level, the national legislator has also made explicit use of the principle of vertical subsidiarity, based on it the guarantee of territorial autonomy and interpreted it as a flexibility clause for the intervention of central power. A complete and definitive formulation of the principle in question is based on the reform proper to Title V of Part Two of the Constitution and, precisely, Article 118, as reformed by the Constitutional Law of 18 October 2001, n. 3, which states in paragraph 1: The administrative functions are assigned to the municipalities unless, in order to ensure their unitary exercise, they are conferred to Provinces, Metropolitan Cities, Regions and State, on the basis of the principles of subsidiarity, differentiation and adequacy. This paragraph declines without uncertainty the hierarchy to be followed in order to ensure a proportionate definition of the spheres of intervention of the various administrative bodies. In essence, the principle stated is that the level of institution closest to the citizen should always be preferred, on the basis of the consideration that the institutions closest to those concerned are able to better meet their needs. However, the mere definition of an order of intervention by the various state administrations could not be sufficient to provide an effective response to the multitude of demands and needs of society that day-to-day reality proposed, with the consequence that the introduction of a second meaning of the principle of subsidiarity became necessary. I am referring to what I have just mentioned, the so-called horizontal subsidiarity. It is interesting to note that it is always Article 118 of the Constitution that introduces this different meaning of the principle of subsidiarity, where paragraph 4 states that "State, Regions, Metropolitan Cities, Provinces and Municipalities" favour the autonomous initiative of citizens, individuals and associates, for the carrying out of activities of general interest, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity." The rule therefore perfectly outlines the horizontal reduction of subsidiarity, calling on citizens to take action to carry out activities of general interest and local authorities, for their part, to assume a role of promotion, support and, where necessary, replacement. Subsidiarity, with the recognition and appreciation of the responsibility of all levels, i.e. administrators (vertical subsidiarity) and citizenship (horizontal subsidiarity), creates in fact a new system of land management and its needs, profoundly changing the role entrusted to citizens. In fact, a new form of participation in public life is emerging, which extends beyond the mere exercise of the right to vote and which makes each one share in the destiny of the community and the common good. In essence, the constitutional reform, promoting the action of the aggregations of citizens and associations that willingly intend to engage actively in the territory, admits that the direct intervention of the State can reach a certain level, beyond which it is better to leave the initiative to those who live directly the territory. Therefore, we are precisely in the scenario of the welfare mix or plural that, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, assigns to the actors in the field (State, market, third sector, families and informal networks) specific responsibilities of intervention in the social, that is, in the pursuit of subjective and intersubjective well-being. And in this scenario, the third sector is a positive and proactive form of civil society. Administrative action, based on respect for the principle of subsidiarity, is carried out in accordance with criteria of transparency, impartiality, efficiency, cost-effectiveness, speed and simplicity in procedures to meet the needs of the community. These criteria must also characterize the third sector, which must demand and also ensure clear regulations for representation and participation mechanisms. In conclusion, Mr President, in other words, it must monitor the activities of local authorities in order to ensure that procedures are complied with, that clear rules are enacted and applied, with regulations that are unique throughout the national territory, punctual and unique, which do not give rise to different interpretations in the different regions. It is necessary to imagine mechanisms of representation that are able to give voice to the diversity of thought that exists in the third sector and to break down the negative mechanisms of lobbying that exist also in associationism. I wonder, therefore, why not also include a turnover and a time constraint for all the representative bodies that I sincerely do not see in this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u21	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u22	Mr President, the text we are considering and which was approved by the House a year ago provides - as we all know - for a delegation in the field of third sector, social enterprise and civil service, as well as a revision of Title II of the book. I of the Civil Code always in the matter of associations, foundations and other non-profit private institutions. The text had already been extensively revised and amended in the sense - in my opinion - improved during the debate in the House and was further amended positively in the Commission. We are therefore faced with a text which has taken into account many of the comments made on the various occasions. I would just like to make two comments on the importance of the third sector in order to give meaning to the comments that I will then be able to make. In this country, the third sector is a great patrimony of people, of social capital, of trust, of interventions: over 290,000 associations, social cooperatives, societies of mutual assistance (which, among other things, have a history long centuries); over 4 million volunteers and over 600,000 employees and external workers who reach almost 300,000. It is a sector that, according to estimates by ISTAT, gives the real economy a contribution of around 64 billion per year and, therefore, an important sector that goes hand in hand with the state and the market and, precisely for this reason, is identified as a third sector. This measure is based on a very wide and complex legislation which has stratified over the years with many amendments, adopted from time to time in a disharmonious, differentiated way, and certainly needed a reorder, a precise definition of many of the aspects on which guiding principles and criteria are indicated. The positive efforts made with regard to the elements of clarity that were needed are certainly welcome. This is an effort to simplify, to lighten the bureaucratic aspects involving all these sectors, an effort which largely refers to the delegated decrees. And, precisely on these, we draw the attention of those who will have to fully implement the principles, which are not always written in a clear way and which touch, with very general references, very important aspects of the third sector on which perhaps we would have liked a greater specification. I have in mind - for example - the fact that the non-profit sector in some cases - and I say this with great bitterness, but we cannot hide these aspects - still needs to learn the respect of some rules, that the third sector we would like to be the first to respect. I am thinking, for example, of workers' rights or respect for quality standards of services provided to citizens; of the principles of transparency, which are not yet so clearly respected, not even by that world which, in fact, is the bearer of ethical, civil and social values, which we all appreciate but which, sometimes, forgets to put in place. I would quickly like to refer to some aspects which - in my opinion - have not yet been so defined. I refer only to two aspects, given the rather limited time each of us has available. I am referring to the revision of the system of voluntary service centres, which we know is a system that has a great role in this world but which could probably be further defined. In particular, I recall one of the amendments on which we count to have attention from the rapporteur and the Government, which provides that the entities of the third sector, referred to in Article 1 paragraph 1, may be involved, not only in the constitution but also in the management of voluntary service centres. However, I would like to dedicate my remaining time to one of the issues that I consider most relevant, for good and for bad, which is what refers to amendment 9.0.0100, of the Government, that is, the institution of the Fondazione Italia sociale. This is an amendment which can play a very important role and which should therefore have been the subject of wider reflection rather than last minute reflection. I must admit that the Government has accepted, by rewording the version presented these days, some of the concerns that, even during the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have emerged, such as the reference to the disadvantaged subjects and territories; the presence in the governing bodies of a representative of the third sector; the introduction - I am surprised that those who made a proposal that wants to be so innovative have neglected it - of systems of evaluation and verification of the effective social impact, which is the frontier of innovation for all public policies and, more importantly, for those who believe they can have a great impact. Here, however, there is a fundamental problem, which I would like to raise. It is true that we need people who are able to strengthen our capacity to carry out innovative actions, capable of having a high social and employment impact. And, therefore, let us be very careful about this issue. What still creates my doubts is why a foundation, which is established with the contribution of financial resources and managerial skills, and therefore wants to mobilize what is already there and is supposed to be valued, needs, in order to start, to have a public funding. This means that the difficulties that we also have in the third sector and in the territory, in this moment of great economic crisis, probably imagines them even those who have in mind the Fondazione Italia sociale. It is not clear to me, therefore, why we must devote public resources to a foundation which, on the other hand, says that it is able to fund raising among private individuals in order to strengthen the interventions to be made available to citizens. What worries me, in particular, is that while, rightly, it is said that this foundation has a subsidiary function and not a substitute for public intervention, then in paragraph 3, point b), of amendment 9.0.0100 it is said that it can adopt instruments and methods of investment, also with reference to the dissemination of models of welfare supplementary to those already insured by public intervention. What, then, does the phrase "in relation to those already insured by public intervention" mean? I would not like this to open the way to a scenario which unfortunately, in fact, implicitly already exists, namely that public intervention is drawing ever more, for various reasons, starting from the problems of public finance and, since it fails to provide some services, we leave the possibility for some private institutions to do so not only with private funds - which would be absolutely welcome - but also and above all through the raising of public funds. Therefore, there is the risk of favouring the withdrawal of public intervention, forming an association that will then use funding not only private, but also public. And this creates a problem for us - we do not understand what the definitive design is with respect to the welfare that we would like - or perhaps risks putting in place very misunderstanding situations. In particular, that point (b) of paragraph 3 of the Government's amendment could cause further confusion, so I would ask the rapporteur and the Government to consider amending it or, more simply, to delete it. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia's PDe Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law for the reform of the third sector, of social enterprise and for the discipline of civil service comes to our attention. The legislative initiative was taken by the government, but in this case, unlike other pseudo-reforms, which we often censored, one cannot fail to note the usefulness and the need for such a proposal. In fact, the legislation in force in this field is far-reaching and disorganic, basing itself on any norms of the civil code, in particular those of book I, title II, and on a series of regulatory measures that have stratified over the years. The ratio of this reform plan can therefore be considered to be acceptable. On the other hand, the regulated subjects - the third sector, social enterprise and civil service - have become so strategic for our country, that the regulatory disorder referred to above was not further tolerable. Only in order to remind ourselves of the importance of the third sector, your sensu considered, is it enough to give a quick look at the numbers of recent years. Well, in the period 2001-2011, non-profit institutions grew by 28 percent and the number of employees increased by 39 percent. The volunteers involved were 4,800,000 and the total number of employees of such bodies rose to 681,000, as well as 271,000 workers. As you can see, these are particularly important figures, which would deserve much greater insight and reflection than those contained in this general debate. Another reflection on these data may concern the uneven distribution on the national territory of non-profit entities and voluntary associations. That number of 681,000 employees, to which I mentioned earlier, is for example contained for half in only three Regions - Lombardy, Emilia-Romagna and Lazio - as most of the agencies are located in the North, then follows central Italy, with a South still running from this point of view. All these considerations make us understand the importance of this sector in our economic and social system. Precisely for these reflections, our task, that of preparing a delegation to the Government in order to give a new and full discipline to the third sector, is at the same time delicate and strategic. One of the principles to be confirmed, as provided for in Article 118 of the Constitution, incorporated in the first paragraph of Article 2 (a) of the draft law, is certainly that of horizontal subsidiarity. Think, for example, of the strong relationship between local authorities and those in the third sector. Over the last two decades, the legislator, supported by public opinion, has decidedly preferred that certain general interests, often very important, be pursued and carried out by social bodies or formations present on the territory, rather than by public administrations. A consistent application of this objective was, in this respect, Law 328 of 2000, which reformed the social services system, by many of the Members mentioned. How could the territorial areas of social services be realized with the human and financial energies of the individual municipalities or local health companies alone? This is the question that we can ask ourselves about Law 328 and especially from 2011 onwards, when the cuts towards local authorities and municipalities were so strong that for small municipalities it was really difficult to think of a local welfare. Without volunteering and non-profit associations, the system designed by Law 328 would have been wrecked before leaving the launching site. Today, the so-called framework plans begin to give some answers only thanks to the contribution of the subjects to whom this bill is addressed, in view of the impossibility of the municipalities being able to carry out their own social assistance service. Think of those municipalities - even today there are - which do not even have an organic plan for the social worker - I do not say the psychologist or the official - at convention. We could make the same question even more decisively for the management of the reception of immigrants. What would have happened in that area without the help of volunteers? Just a few days ago in this Chamber I recalled the decisive role of volunteering, together with the armed and police forces, to address the very complicated problem of the humanitarian and social reception of all those disinherited landed over the last twenty-five years. If the answer to this problem had been that of the public administrations, Italy would have been negative, much worse than Greece is doing in Idomeni (to use a very abused example of the last few weeks). And we could continue by citing the importance of the third sector in the solution of the various civil protection emergencies, unfortunately always frequent in our country; also in that case the third sector becomes, at certain times, not subsidiary, but substitute for the public response. Similarly, consideration should be given to the role of banking foundations, which are the necessary interlocutors of central government, such as universities and local authorities. The importance of such associations, companies and foundations has led to a shared view of the need for a reform and updating of the system of rules which have hitherto been disorganized by the legislator, as I said at the beginning. Many of the principles and criteria of delegation which can be found in the text in our examination go in the right direction. We cannot fail to note, however, here, the excessive scope of the delegation itself. But this is a flaw that many other times we have had to highlight, both because the Government often resorts to delegated laws, and because the use of this instrument is not always the most appropriate one. Our opinion - without going into detail of the individual amendments and preparatory work - is still suspended, although we know how important this law is, because of the uncertainty about the process of the amendments that the excellent rapporteur, Mr Lepri, has drawn up in the last few hours and the subsequent sub-amendments. We are therefore waiting for the work of the Assembly to be carried out in order to give a more complete judgment on some issues which have not yet been defined, as already highlighted in the preparatory work, particularly as regards the role and functions of the Italian Social Foundation, introduced at the end of the examination in the Commission and on which the amending efforts of many colleagues have concentrated. But even now it remains to understand how strategic this foundation becomes, which can be everything and the opposite of everything only to the outcome of what will be the amending activity of the next few hours. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u25	Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u26	Mr. President, we're on the same page. Today we are discussing yet another draft law of government initiative, which always presents the same same scheme and unfortunately characterizes many of the measures of the Executive: to focus more and more the legislative power towards the State, weakening the competences and functions of the Regions and local authorities; but above all to set in motion the process of media resonance fund of which Renzi is the superstar champion, presenting as reform what essentially turns out to be a pure exercise of style. Before any other argument it is necessary to criticize the very ratio of this bill, which intends to classify as a third sector everything that is not part of the first two. The general principles of the measure, in fact, outline a system of no-profit replacement of the public sector and fueled by tax breaks and donations from private individuals. It is the perspective of the residual welfare, in which the social enterprise will be able to intervene also in areas such as university education and health care. Basically, the doors to the privatisation of the social state will be even more open, and in particular in two areas which up to now have maintained a strong public facility: health and education. The importance assumed in recent years by the third sector for the Italian economy and society is known and has been demonstrated also by the results of the ISTAT census on non-profit institutions: important, indeed, are the human resources engaged in the sector, the same non-profits are in significant number and, above all, on five institutions, four take advantage of the work of volunteering. This shows how vital volunteering is really in our country. But beware: we must distinguish the real volunteering, that of those who really have the passion to lend their work to the other benefits, compared to those who instead have only the facade of volunteers, but act out of personal interest. In fact, compared to 2001, the number of external institutions and collaborators doubled, with an increase in the number of collaborators. There is talk of almost EUR 80 billion of revenue, corresponding to 3% of national GDP. They are disguised under the label of the non-profit, unfortunately, also organizations very similar to private companies, who take advantage of the tax benefits. To intervene in order to strengthen the third sector at a historical moment like this, when judicial investigations such as that of Mafia Capitale have clearly revealed a mix between corrupt politicians, social cooperatives and criminal associations, without providing for formulas of contrast to these deviances of the sector, seems totally unreasonable to us. This draft law provides for inadequate solutions, such as centralising competences at state level by establishing the single register, involving the Agency of revenue in the monitoring action on the progress of activities, and relative solutions, such as the increase in the ceiling for tax deductions on donations to Onlus or uneven interventions in relation to the context of the reform, such as the transformation of civil service into universal civil service, without being declared what is actually meant and what is subject to such universal civil service. The provisions in the field of civil service appear to be detached from the context of the delegated and non-organic bill. If the Government assumes to exercise this delegation in white, in order to regulate the participation of non-members in this activity, it clearly violates the respect of national sovereignty and the very concept of identity, which must instead characterize an institution such as that of civil service, born from the desire to establish an alternative system to compulsory leverage. You see, colleagues, the prediction of a single register of the third sector in order to promote full knowledge throughout the national territory is contrary to the respect of the prerogatives of the Regions, also according to the constitutional discipline provided by Title V. We would have expected a reform of the third sector, on the one hand, to restore to it the dignity of its mission, aimed, in compliance with the principle of horizontal subsidiarity, at absorbing the gap of state intervention on issues of social pact and - on the other hand - able to guarantee control and supervision over the degenerations that over time have invested the world of non-profit. Mr President, this is a draft delegation law; the limits are wide and in the end it will always be the bureaucrats who will lay down the rules, so, unfortunately, we do not know what they will fit in with today. I challenge anyone, on the other hand, to really deal with voluntary associations. In my country there are associations such as the Avis and the Green Cross; the same nursing home is an Onlus. However, they do not need the single register of the third sector, but rather to be helped, because the bureaucracy they unfortunately have to deal with is increasing. Many times they must even have experts to follow the bureaucratic rules that are imposed on them. The nursing home, which - in my opinion - is of great benefit to our elders, often sees much personal sacrifice to compile paperwork instead of giving assistance to its guests. Many times, unfortunately, eight cards are needed to say the same thing, and that time when the staff is dedicated to filling out the cards could instead be used for care for the elderly. What leaves us most perplexed - it is a clear sign of what this delegation is - is the amendment of the Government, 9.0. 100, presented to the Commission, withdrawn and now re-presented, which provides for the establishment of the Italian Social Foundation. You don't understand what it is and what it's going to do. In the definition we talk about the realization and development of innovative interventions by third sector entities: practically the classic Italian carriage. It establishes an institution with the name of fantomatico, Fondazione Italia sociale, that will eventually remain a wagon on which in the beginning will invest public resources (one million euros). After - as unfortunately often happens in our country - they will ask for more money that will justify with the social purpose, and instead maybe they will be destined to the usual friends. Unfortunately, we have seen in our sad reality, as behind collaboration, wanting to help others, there is simply a desire to take advantage and gain on the shoulders of others. Mr President, we have far too many laws, which often only create confusion, more damage than benefits. It is for this reason that this measure does not convince us at all. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u27	I address the greeting of the Assembly to the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education "Michele dell'Aquila" in San Ferdinando di Puglia, in the province of Barletta-Andria-Trani. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u28	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u29	Mr President, the government and the majority must be acknowledged to be a real simple business complications office. The government, now two years ago, presents a bill delegates on the third sector with the inevitable announcement: There is a generous and laborious Italy that works quietly every day to improve the quality of people's lives. It is Italy of volunteering, social cooperation, non-profit associationism, foundations and social enterprises. They call it the third sector, but it's actually the first sector. This is the robusting announcement. Many of us who have devoted a good part of our life to the world of associationism have, however, well hoped, also because the parliamentary process began in the Chamber of Deputies where there are distinguished representatives of that world, presidents of large associations, a presence never seen, a great political recognition. So, we would finally have expected a framework law on the third sector that could bring together the different disciplines and strengthen their role. The relationship between third sector and legislation has always been complicated. For years reference has been made to the civil code and to many other rules, mostly tax, for extensive interpretation. In 1997 the tax decree no. 460 of Minister Visco was approved: a milestone, finally a first step where important fiscal criteria were established for the recognition of identifying advantages and criteria were identified to define the various types of non-profit, and one on all: the participation of citizens, the role of members. In 1991 the laws n. 266 on volunteering and n. 381 on social cooperatives were approved. In 1999 the Act on Ex-Banking Foundations was passed; in 2000 Law No. 383 on Social Promotion and in 2005 Law No. 118 on Social Enterprise. In essence, it is a group of rules which would have required harmonisation and an updated reading in the light of what this sector really is. Today the vast and rich world of widespread associationism, volunteering and non-profit is an important part not only of our economy - as has been said several times - but above all of our democratic fabric, which has ancient and solid roots in Italian solidarity and mutuality. In the second half of the 19th century, following the great and profound economic and social changes linked to the industrialization and formation of the unitary state, the associative movement of the working classes developed. The first mutual aid companies (SMSs) and the workers' societies of mutual aid, which deal with assistance, charity and mutuality, are born, becoming a reference point for the nascent working class. Influenced by Mazzinian, anarchist and socialist ideals, the SMS quickly loses the apoliticality of the origins, although, in the absence of a common political line, some devote themselves exclusively to charity and mutual assistance, while others choose to engage actively alongside the workers in their fight against exploitation. In the name of mutuality, justice and freedom, the SMS become essential subjects for the creation of places of meeting, culture, education and political formation, encouraging in the then nascent proletariat the awareness of its own condition, both political and social. The education and literacy courses of the workers find full organization in the mutual aid societies. They are gymnasiums of democracy, meeting places, education and culture. Over the years, fascism with repressive laws, the struggle for liberation and our Constitution mark important steps for the transformation of secular and Catholic associationism, crossed by great social ferments that can interpret, represent and sometimes anticipate. Territorial and social rooting is its main strength, although with regional specificities; a widespread network of open spaces where citizens meet, share interests and passions, do activities in the interest of the community, promote participation in public life. Today, when we talk about the third sector, we are faced with a crowd of associative and cooperative experiences, which in recent years have helped to build an important piece of our social, cultural and recreational welfare. All this has happened in full collaboration with local authorities and regions, experimenting with new forms of public intervention, but never betraying the principle of subsidiarity provided for in Article 118 of the Constitution; that principle according to which certain public functions of general interest can be carried out by organisations closer to the citizens, obviously in full respect of different roles and powers; the powers of direction, programming and control are all public, without ever replacing. When we talk about activities and public functions, today we talk about Italian courses for foreigners in schools (the famous L2), cultural activities, play areas, kindergartens, centres of first reception, legal offices information, after school for children, development cooperation and humanitarian aid, interventions of health solidarity, fundraising, sports courses, music, dance, culture and food and wine, courses of social economy, courses of sexual education in schools, environmental protection and prevention, health prevention: in short, an endless list. These are activities carried out by large, medium and small cooperatives, voluntary associations and social promotion, by Onlus: a dense forest of experiences and experimentation that has helped to build the Italian social state, to build citizenship, battle for rights. Every experience is a wealth of practices, studies, works to which in many cases the experimentation and social innovation of the local authorities has been totally delegated, to the point that today we can undoubtedly recognize the public social utility for those "circles" that are often the only social garrison in many small centers, in fractions where the evening is often not open any other meeting place. That circle plays an important role and no profit activity, even when the only activity is often to be a bar or a small store. It is a great world, an incredible wealth, a great humanity and so much generosity that should have found full appreciation in the bill under consideration. This is why it is unacceptable that this opportunity has not been used to dissolve those nodes that would have helped to clarify, to give certain rules on which - for example - institutional and related activities, to recognize the right tax facilities as well; to say clearly that the activities where there is payment of money are functional to institutional activities and not to profit. It is a mistake to talk about non-predominant business activity, because it automatically leads back to the idea of smartness and evasion, and we have heard it in this House. There is no valorization and there is no recognition of the social value of institutional activities and even of the indirect social value of commercial activities. A terminology has been used which leads to doubtful interpretation when, in Article 6, social enterprise is referred to and the use of profits must be devoted primarily to the performance of statutory activities. So a non-priority part of profits can be shared? And we refer to the decrees implementing the identification of the sectors of enterprise, which would have been urgent to do. The approach of the bill is entirely economical (the criterion of economicity is taken up again, we speak of private economic initiative) and also very justificationist, forgetting to give citizenship and valorization to the participation of citizens, to the active participation of all those who choose to put together for projects of social utility, for an idea of shared sociality, culture, civil commitment: fundamental criterion to explain the meaning and the legal nature of the third sector. Participation and self-organization are concepts that the text under consideration struggles to fully recognize, if not in a vindicative sense and control of transparency and correctness, endorsing the more than common place that the third sector is a bit like Mafia Capital. Cooperation has solid values and is not all bad and stealing. All this is the result of non-knowledge, populism and simplification. However, it cannot be thought that any company that invests in social life is to be defined as a social enterprise. It's a mistake. The world of the third sector - at least what I know and which I have had the opportunity to know in my work - has well-made budgets and accounts; it often has budgets in difficulty; it needs funding and not just public, subscriptions, and it certainly does not have the resources to pay for election campaigns or politics; it is made up of citizens who donate, collective paths. Of course, it must be a common battle against scams, false cooperatives, false associations, but the transparency of acts, budgets, accounts and projects is a strong demand that comes from that world and is not considered punitive. And that is not new, because many of those rules have already been in force since 1997. We do not understand, however, why there was no commitment to a typical sector contract. There are too many different types of contract, different types of pay; too precarious. For a sector that is considered the first economic sector it is not acceptable not to have placed workers, work and its quality among the priorities. It has long been asked to recognize the value of volunteering all, eliminating old classifications related to the associative places where it takes place and to the unjustly punitive legislative classifications, distinguishing between free and voluntary. Volunteering, in any non-profit model, has the same high ethical, social and humanitarian value. To understand, it is voluntary that of those who go to distribute meals to the popular cafeteria, just as it is voluntary that of those who organize the same cafeteria but in a social promotion association. These days, in the face of the humanitarian tragedy that we are witnessing at the Greek borders, some large associations are mobilizing themselves to collect materials and basic necessities and relief goods, a form of great collective volunteering. Once again, however, ideas are confused and the announcements are less and less than expectations. Everything becomes more nebulous when suddenly the Government presented in the Commission a few days ago and Friday in the Chamber the proposal of the Fondazione Italia sociale, a humanitarian philanthropy operation with the intent to use public funding, the resources of banking foundations and those of private foundations. We have not quite understood the way in which the Commission is presented: stealthily, and then there was the withdrawn amendment. Nor was there an opportunity to clarify the doubts that arose in the face of this strange amendment. We also wonder why it was not presented to the House. But the main question is: what does the amendment containing the establishment of that foundation have to do with this bill? For us absolutely nothing, but it makes clear that the Government's intention is not the social, ethical and cultural recognition of associationism, volunteering and social cooperation, but it is to make a great fundraising operation among the giants of finance and industry. In this there is nothing wrong, but this was not the text to discuss a country foundation to drain resources from private for humanitarian purposes. We wonder why this proposal was not presented in another design which provides for the creation of a public foundation, one of many. Perhaps it is only a confirmation that there are two levels in this debate: the parliamentary one, which has tried, despite us, to involve the protagonists, albeit with different visions, and that of the Government, which, on the other hand, clearly thinks of an operation of great solidarity, but that is something else. We forget that today the third sector is made by the free choice of women and men who put themselves at stake for a collective path of self-management and emancipation, even in today's social-like forms. They are citizens who share positive ideas of culture, solidarity, civil commitment, peace and social justice and human rights. Together they build another idea of society and contribute in fact to changing it. Your approach, on the other hand, is affected by a strong ancient cultural heritage. In the world, forms of volunteering and project sharing are developed even in a collaborative form via the web (think of crowdfunding or the development of free web software platforms) and your amendment is quite different. The third sector is a world that, with different awareness and despite it, is committed to building new citizenships, new rights, new democratic public spaces, new civic awareness. It's not just charity. And this is the profound cultural difference that you cannot grasp within this text. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Granaiola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u30	Senator Sacconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u31	Mr President, my convictions in this regard refer to the principle of subsidiarity which we wanted to raise to constitutional rank and which is achieved mainly through those bodies which are not profitable dedicated to activities of general interest to which this provision is addressed in terms of appropriate delegation to the Government. This is due to the need, invoked by the rapporteur, by introducing the general discussion, of simple, certain rules, united - if possible - in a single text, and as much more usable by the many activities that are understood within that definition and that we would like to make more efficient, transparent and capable of pursuing the objectives declared in the statutes of the institutions themselves. In the course of our experience we have had good and bad practices, as mentioned in the speeches that followed. However, to those who stress the recurrent pathologies that have manifested themselves in this area, I would like to remind two evidences of the convenience that our community has to encourage the development of non-profitable entities. On the one hand, there is what we derive from our history, that is, from the legislation of the first governments of the unitary state with which we wanted to advertise many pious works. There was no positive experience of this, because even today we are very often faced with the debts accumulated by public institutions of care and charity. Moreover, on the whole, we took away from those pious works that relational warmth that gives them a competitive advantage over public institutions. The large debt that has been unleashed in these institutions since then is there to demonstrate the non-predictable efficiency of public management compared to so-called private-social management. The second consideration I would like to make relates to our National Health Service. The places where the National Health Service is most efficient and at the same time effective are those of the appropriateness, that is those places where the territorial integration between health services, social services and welfare services is accomplished. This integration is realized because the relative expenditure is gathered in the territorial companies. The local authorities themselves give social and health care expenditure to local health companies with separate accounts directly supervised by them, but in such a way as to fully integrate with health care expenditure and to develop subsidiary efficiency for non-profit-making bodies. I would like to make two brief comments as I begin to conclude. As for the first, we must hope that, through this measure, all the institutions will be able to find those ways of efficiency that they have not always been able to express. The ways of efficiency demand freedom and responsibility, on the contrary - I add - freedom, responsibility and transparency. I refer in particular to Article 4 (1) (e), where an invasive regulation, recalling Legislative Decree No 460 of 4 December 1997, would like to set a ceiling of 20% higher than the minimum wage of the reference collective agreements with regard to the employees of these institutions. I believe that in this way it would not allow the bodies themselves to find on the market those doctors, nurses, computer scientists, biologists, accounting experts and budget and so on which appear more suitable to pursue the social purpose. We must leave contractual freedom, otherwise we would violate a principle of equal treatment for those workers who always belong to the private sector; rather, we must try to ensure principles of transparency, proportionality and overall the reduction of fixed costs, those support costs that support the social purpose, the core activity of these institutions. Finally, in this regard, I call on the rapporteur and the Government to amend Article 4 (c) with principles of delegation of a more general nature, certainly not referring to that legislative decree No 460 of 4 December 1997, which, moreover, proved ineffective. I would like to conclude with a reference to the text, where, with regard to public procurement, it requires that workers should not be allowed to adopt worse criteria than collective agreements. If this means the so-called social clause, I recall that, recently, both the Anti-Corruption Authority and the Antitrust have explained the unconstitutionality of the so-called social clause, because it cannot prevent the pursuit of objectives of effectiveness and efficiency; that is, it applies until there is a better offer from the point of view of the organization of that service, so as to be of greater benefit to the pursuit of the common good. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u32	Mr President, when we talk about social and volunteering, we are dealing with a very important issue, beyond the numbers we have mentioned these days and which we all know. They report an increase in volunteering, associations; they refer to 4.8 million volunteers, 681,000 employees, 271,000 outside workers, 6,000 temporary workers. So we are talking about a very dynamic sector that increases by 28 percent the bodies and 39.4% the employees in Italy. These numbers, however, may seem cold; instead, when we talk about volunteering we refer to a great wealth present in Italy, because those numbers tell us how many people take something away from themselves, their families, their work or their leisure time to devote themselves to others. In my opinion, when we talk about this - apart from the fact that there can never, in any way and for no reason, be a political color in defining volunteering - the government makes a very serious mistake when it asks for such a broad and blank delegation to Parliament: I say this immediately, then I will make my statements. A subject like this should be discussed with force. For example, I would like to understand the differences between a cooperative and voluntary associations, for example those of disabled people, those formed by parents, those in which perhaps so many municipal administrations do the "after us" or so many interventions that seem small from an economic point of view, but that are more than significant from the point of view of supporting families and these children. There are fundamental and important differences and I would like to understand what differences the Government stresses with regard to these issues in the blank delegation that it wants to give. I could mention many social experiences of the first volunteer, therefore of real, pure, beautiful volunteering, present in many Italian cities, beyond the political membership and the fact that these municipalities are governed by the center-right, the 5 Star Movement, the center-left. (Following MARIN). Beyond this, these experiences are many. They live, very often, of the solidarity of families, of the solidarity of volunteers, who devote time, and not only time but also economic resources. In this respect, I have heard the word subsidiarity mentioned earlier. We know that when we talk about this we refer to double subsidiarity. Vertical subsidiarity, which means State, Regions, Municipalities, and horizontal subsidiarity, which is what brings the Municipalities, the institutions closest to the citizens, to help, because they know them well (and I do not say it at random, because then we will get to this point) all these associations and bodies, like social cooperatives. I have already said before that I would like to hear this distinction loud and clear, because it is clear that we are talking about two profoundly different realities. First I set the example of the disabled. Well, when we talk about volunteering, Caritas is also included. But is Caritas comparable to a cooperative? Frankly, I don't think it is. I'm sure of it, and I don't like it not being specified. Perhaps, according to the government and the proposer of the amendment is clearly specified, but I, always referring to the speech of the delegation, would like to know where we go next. It is a speech that, with regard to volunteering, seems to me so simple and immediate that honestly I am frightened by a government that carries out such an operation, aimed at asking Members for a delegation in white. It is true that we have political convictions in this regard, but I would not like to set the issue on political convictions. We are talking about voluntary associations which, as we said before, are today the strongest form of generosity in our society. And we want the government to regulate you, without even telling us how you intend to do it? By the way, I am not suspicious, but the doubt that such a reform will not be done well. We are talking, for example, about the Fondazione Italia sociale, for which we do not understand whether or not there is an amendment or an agenda. But there is nothing more centralist than that foundation; there is nothing more that goes against the concept of subsidiarity of which we spoke before and, even before the concept of subsidiarity, included in the Constitution, against the concept of generosity, which is at the centre of all social phenomena of volunteering in Italy: in Padua as in Bolzano, in Agrigento as in Turin. Since we represent political forces that administer our country, I wonder how it didn't come to your mind to call, not only the smaller associations of cities to hear their experiences, but to build this reform together? Volunteering belongs to everyone. I see a colleague smiling. But should Parliament be humiliated on such a matter? We delegate to the government, saying, do it yourself. In my political experience I have been a city council member for social purposes, and I have seen Auser, an association of the CGIL that provides direct help to the elderly, do so much; just as I have seen the Catholic volunteering of my city do so much. Therefore, I want to know how the Government will decide to do delegated acts on such a matter, without even having the courage, or the preparation, to come and say so in Parliament. In fact, if we are once again improvising, then let's make it a political battle. Let's say the government is inadequate. I think so, and as I see it, 70% of Italians and the majority of political forces think: not parliamentarians, perhaps elected on one side and then voting with another. If we want to clear the field from political implications, at least on volunteering, this reform must be done together, and cannot be delegated to the government! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] If we delegate to the government, in fact, we make a dramatic mistake. I have to say that, having already proved inadequate on so many issues, at least do not deal with this problem, having touched with hand what is done in the Italian cities and what our people do in all cities. It would be enough to call the Councillors to social affairs, fishing them at random between different administrations, who could talk to us for hours about the projects carried out: in the field of disabled people, poverty, social inclusion. But volunteering is also sports and much more. But have you ever spoken to a concerned parent because he has a disabled child? Those are the associations you have to listen to. I want to know what is being done there, how the concept of subsidiarity applies there. I am addressing the Undersecretary because, although of course it is more important that I speak on the phone, this attitude shows how we must say no to the delegation in white to the Government, because it is disinterested in everything. I don't think that's a good example, not because I speak, but because it does when everyone talks. I ask Parliament whether this is okay, and I ask whether it has read the act in question: I do not even know whether it has read it or whether it has ever had anything to do with social associations, whether you have ever spoken with the parents of children who are disabled or with Caritas workers. Yet they come here - then yes, I say so - arrogantly, asking for the delegation in blank. Do you know what it means to create a foundation and make resources available to it? The Undersecretary, who speaks on the telephone, knows what the foundations do, for example the savings bank of Veneto or Lombardy or any other part of the country, of how many resources have, why do they have it in their statutes? When we say that they have to give it to the Government, I wonder if, for example, the Association for Active Ageing (Auser) of the CGIL, which I mentioned earlier, or the association "After us," of the parents of children with disabilities, or Caritas or one of the Catholic associations that do so much in Veneto, will be protected. How are we gonna do that? Why can't everyone say their own and make their own contribution on such a subject? You have taken so long, it has been nineteen months, and I hope that we can see that there is no polemic intent. If you want to do such a thing together, you actually do it together. When you ask for such a broad delegation, you don't want to do it together. I repeat that, not only here, there are those who made the council member to the social, in the Region or in the Municipality or maybe he volunteered at Caritas, the Auser, the association "After us" or in a sports society and everyone, on the basis of their own experience, have something to say. At least you could hear these associations, otherwise you risk politicizing this issue and it is a shame. In essence, there is a risk of wanting to politicise a subject that is not politicizable. I have already made an initial distinction between pure and simple associations, such as those of parents, and others, between Catholic associationism and cooperatives, which by statute are something else. Everything is legitimate, everything in accordance with the law, of course, but they are certainly something else. Since you do not say how this distinction is made and what delegation you intend to make, I, who care about some associations - not for personal reasons, but because I think they do so much in my territory, which I represent here - how do I give you a delegation in white? I repeat: if it is a political matter, I think this Government is inadequate. Has he already shown his inadequacy and, therefore, what are we talking about? On the other hand, if we recognize that this is an issue that is not political and concerns everyone, let us do it together. Let me see you consider everyone's contribution. No contribution can be made on a blank delegation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u33	I invite you to conclude, Senator Marin.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u34	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). In conclusion, Madam President, when we talk about a foundation that is beginning to become a centralist, we do not want to understand the concept of horizontal subsidiarity. Perhaps, those who do not know volunteering do not even know the difference between the vertical one, which risks being statist, between Government, Regions and Municipalities, and the horizontal one, with the city councilors, associations and parishes. I haven't read these things, I don't hear them say, I don't see where they are and then you can't ask for a blank proxy on such a subject. Madam President, I would like to thank you and begin by asking the Government to put a hand on the heart and not on the conscience. It has nothing to do with politics: in this case we really talk about so much volunteering that is done in the cities, about so many things that the municipal administrations, also because of the cuts and the scarcity of resources, can no longer do. Because you can't do it anymore and the government wants to create the centralist foundation too, who will, when they are no longer made by the people who work in these associations? This is because we do not question the consequences of what is being done. If, on the other hand, we are all aware that it is a positive issue, let's talk about it together. On the positive side, frankly, I see very little. I see it's been a long time, and you want a central delegation so you can do whatever you want. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u35	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u36	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know the importance of the third sector and of all the activities that are characterized by being non-profit. Over time, this sector has acquired a fundamental role in modern society and today has a significant economic weight in our country. As has already been mentioned, according to the Unicredit Foundation it generates a turnover of around 67 billion euros, equivalent to about 4% of GDP and has a pool of resources of about 500,000 employees and 4 million volunteers. 5.15 p.m. (FAVERO follow-up). Especially after the terrible economic crisis that has hit Europe and the rest of the world, also because of the present war scenarios, where the poor are increasingly poor, the problem of migrants gets worse every day and the social discontent continues to spread, here the third sector represents a possible response to the sufferings and ills of the citizens. In many cases to put a stop to these anxieties and to problems of various kinds and species, which affect in particular the most disadvantaged citizens, there has been the strength of volunteering, associations, social enterprises, mutual assistance societies and cooperatives, which have done a great deal in recent years and will continue to do so in the future. In this context the measure is inserted today on the agenda, which is the result of a long process of elaboration and analysis, started in May 2014, with a public consultation (rebadisco: public, to those who say there was no involvement) on the guidelines for a reform of the third sector, continued with the approval of a draft delegation law, which was first examined in the House and is now in the Senate. In a general context, the key and common elements of the whole reform are the drive towards transparency, reporting, the quality of governance and impact assessment. More specifically, the objective of the measure is, on the one hand, to introduce measures for the construction of a new system that favours the active and responsible participation of persons, either individually or in an associated form. All this, in order to exploit the potential for growth and employment inherent in the social economy and in the activities carried out by the sector, including through the reorganization and harmonisation of incentives and support instruments. On the other hand, the objective is to standardise and coordinate the discipline of the subject, characterised by a regulatory framework that is not homogeneous and no longer adapted to the changing needs of civil society. All this in order to allow individuals involved not to remain entangled and restrained by bureaucratic obstacles that prevent their essential social activity. During the examination in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Senate, with the powerful work of rapporteur Lepri, whom I thank, important changes have been inserted regarding the text approved in the House. For example, in Article 1, the definition of third sector has been made more complete, so as to include in it all the various components and souls of this world. The new wording provides that: The third sector refers to all private entities established for the pursuit, non-profit, of civic, solidarity and social utility purposes. Not only are the aims specified but also the activities when they are expected to promote and carry out activities of general interest, through voluntary and free action, mutuality or production or exchange of goods or services. As far as the subject of work is concerned, I would point out that a number of important and appropriate changes have been made during the examination in the Commission: I am referring to the obligations of transparency and information, which relate not only to members but also to workers. I also think it is of great importance that the proposed guarantee that the economic conditions of workers in public contracts are not worse than those of the most representative trade union organisations. In addition, as part of the revision of the current categories of disadvantaged workers, in Article 6 of the reordering of the social enterprise discipline, it was appropriate to provide, during the examination in the Senate, for the graduation of benefits aimed at favouring those most disadvantaged. I have mentioned only a few important examples, but there are also other important provisions concerning associations or those aimed at the construction and definition of a third sector code. Without forgetting the norms inserted for the revision of universal civil service, which represents a factory of social capital, a gymnasium of cooperation, which is missing in our country today. In this sense, it is important to open the service, planned in the Senate, to regular foreigners who, as the rapporteur, Mr Lepri, said, solves the problem posed by some judgments on this subject. Having said that, if, as mentioned, one of the aims is to create a single regulatory framework for the sector, there is a greater opportunity in the measure to be seized: to make the third sector, the first sector of our country, as stated by our President of the Council. Firstly, because it puts society at the centre; because it allows and improves cohesion between individuals and the well-being of citizens; because policy is an instrument for its growth and development. With this reading key, we can give an innovative vision of the reality that surrounds us, different from the current one. Over the last few years, we have in fact thought that the general interest, the common good, the public interest were only a matter reserved for public administrations and should be managed by them. But it's not like that. These issues, which concern citizens, must also be dealt with by individuals who organize themselves, among themselves, in different forms and ways, and devote themselves to activities of general interest for public, business or solidarity purposes. This is why the current reform has as its basis the dismantling of barriers between institutions, the world of the third sector and the world of business. The public body today, either does not have the economic possibilities, or does not have the information to know the needs of civil society, and often the bureaucracy of the offices does not understand the territory. Similarly, the business world has the resources, but often lacks a common strategy of intervention. Finally, there is civil society, which knows how to avoid paternalism, but lacks a recognized legal status, on which to act. These three worlds need to interact with each other and this can be achieved through circular subsidiarity. This is the organisational principle that must be inspired by the civil welfare of the future. So far on the basis of Article 118 of our Constitution, we have declined the already mentioned subsidiarity as vertical (administrative decentralization) or as horizontal (plural welfare, in the hands of the public body, often forced to adapt to the regime of maximum decrease). Circular subsidiarity instead allows, as has been said, the systematic interaction of the actors: on the basis of protocols established to define the priorities of intervention, it connects the public and business sectors with civil society, allowing to find the most effective management methods to achieve shared objectives. This is not a utopia. This reform is the first step towards this new system. It is part of a larger plan, which goes hand in hand with the reform of work and public administration. The Renzi Government and the PD have changed in this sense towards: they have reversed the perspective of rigour and politics too attentive to the logic of spread and public debt and very little to the civil welfare, leaving the Palaces to connect it to society and to the community of individuals. But that is not the only thing that has been done; it is being said and I would like to reassure Mr Airola: economic resources have also been reinvested on social voices after years of cuts. I am thinking of resources for the Social Fund, civil service, 5 per thousand, good school, after us, culture and the measure which provides for a structural measure against poverty, which is being examined in the House. Finally, I am thinking of measures on women. I quote them not by chance, because it is women who are directly interested in this measure. They are the ones who put more commitment in social. They devote an average of 18.5 hours per week to this activity, according to the latest data from ISTAT. For them, volunteering and social activity play an important role, first of all because it is an area in which certain cultural and ideological fences can be broken, and then because women also see possible occupational implications in the third sector. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the reasons set out and for the content of the rules under consideration, I believe that the challenge presented today with this measure is ambitious and that it will certainly be important to examine further the implementing decrees, which will enter into the light of the matter and determine their success. However, it should not be forgotten that, regardless of the rules and provisions described, this reform would be little without the actors involved. Today, with the examination of this measure, this institution has the opportunity to express its full recognition of the thousands of employees and the millions of volunteers who every day, with effort and dedication, carry out their work in the social sector, with the utmost commitment and professionalism. Having said that, I therefore believe that with the adoption of this rule, there are all the prerequisites for achieving a far-reaching objective of reforming a sector that has long been waiting for and requiring such structured, comprehensive action. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u37	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u38	As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in his reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u39	Mr President, since I did not take the floor at the beginning of the examination of the measure, I would just like to make very few remarks. The first is that the need for this reform lies in the impetus that is being given to the whole associative and voluntary world, and in particular to the implementation of Article 118 of the Constitution, last paragraph, according to which the institutions of the Republic favour the self-appointed initiative of individuals and associates, for the carrying out of activities of general interest, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. Therefore, the reordering and revision are guided by this essential principle, which has remained largely contained in the Constitutional Charter reformed in 2001, but which has not been fully implemented in subsequent rules. The second point concerns the introduction of the single register, on which several speakers have spoken. Today we have a multiplication of registers that does not allow either the individual citizen or the public institutions to have an exact amount of what this world is. In this unclear identification, and therefore opacity, we can hide also those distorting phenomena that several interventions have highlighted. Therefore, the single register will be the way to make it transparent, for the individual citizen and for the institutions, who these subjects are, what they do, who guides them and how they operate in a principle of total transparency. It will not be compulsory to register in this register; you will register if you want to enjoy some rules of advantage that already existing laws and this bill provide. Third point: the delegation contains a provision for the revision of the Civil Service Act. It is a particularly qualifying point, as we want to make an investment on young people in civil service that in the medium to long term will bring new life, new generations precisely in the associative, voluntary, cooperative and mutualist field. In the background there is also the proposal, recently launched by the Government, to arrive at a European civil service. A fourth point is the revision of the rules on social enterprises. We want to facilitate, support, a new social entrepreneurship that goes hand in hand with the existing one, mainly of cooperative nature, able to address, with a social purpose, answers to the many needs that today do not find an appropriate response. Finally, on the subject of resources, I would like to stress that between the law of stability of 2015, that of 2016 and what contained in this bill, there is a total government investment on the associative and voluntary worlds of about 900 million. With the 2015 Stability Act, 5 per thousand was stabilized for a value of 500 million, which is destined precisely for most of these voluntary and associative realities. Last July, a revolving guarantee fund was established by decree of the Ministry of Economic Development to support the investments of cooperatives and social enterprises. In the Stability Act there are 140 million this year, for the full implementation of this reform; in the coming years 2017 and 2018 there are 190 million. A fund for the development of associative and voluntary projects worth 17 million was included in the text before the Assembly. Finally, in the Stability Act for 2015, the threshold on which a tax deduction for liberal payments can be exercised has been increased from EUR 2,065 to EUR 30,000. It is therefore a complex of regulatory reviews, normative innovations and impulses through resources to ensure that that constitutional rule, according to which the institutions have programmatically the task of promoting the development, the birth and the full realization of this ability of citizens, individuals and associates, to pursue activities of general interest, can find a full fulfillment. It is therefore a rule that will certainly require legislative and implementing decrees, which the Government intends to issue as soon as possible and certainly within the time limits set by the rule that we are now going to vote on.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u40	We greet the students of the Institute of State Higher Education Pietro Colonna in Galatina, in the province of Lecce, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u41	We now come to the examination of the articles of draft law No 1870 in the text proposed by the Commission. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented. Before the rapporteur and the government give their opinions, I must suspend the work of this House for 30 minutes, pending the opinions of the 5th Commission. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.34 p.m. and resumed at 6.08 p.m.) The session is resumed. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the sub-amendments submitted to the proposals submitted by the rapporteur and the Government, the Presidency notes that, under the Rules of Procedure, sub-amendments are proposals to amend the amendment to which they relate. Therefore, amendments aimed at fully replacing the content of the main amendment are not acceptable by transforming the object and scope of the amendment to the point of being an alternative to the main amendment. In addition, in accordance with constant practice with regard to amendments, the proposals submitted by the Commission, such as the indications of specific names, are inadmissible. For these reasons, the Presidency declares the sub-amendments from 1,210/1 to 1,210/6, 3,219/1, 5,210/1 to 5,210/6, 5,270/1, 6,209/1 to 6,209/9, 6,26/1 to 6,26/3, 7,228/1 to 7,228/8, 9.0.0,100/1 to 9.0.0,100/3, and 9.0.0,100/8 to 9.0.0,100/16 inadmissible. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u42	Mr President, the opinion is against amendments 1,200 to 1,204. The opinion is also opposed to amendment 1,206, which is identical to amendment 1,207. I would like to point out to the authors of these amendments, Senator Luigi Marino and Senator Petraglia, that the theme of participation is reflected in particular in Article 4 (1) (c). The opinion is opposed to Amendments 1,208 and 1,209 and in favour of Amendment 1,210. The opinion is opposed to Amendments Nos 1,212 to 1,228. I call on you to withdraw amendment 1,229, otherwise the opinion is against it, since - I am addressing Senator Campanella - this issue is already contained in the provision on the National Council of the Third Sector and on the possibility of consultations in the Commission. I also call for Amendment 1,230 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it, for the reasons outlined above. The opinion is opposed to amendments 1,231 to 1,236. I call on you to withdraw amendment 1,237, which is identical to amendment 1,238, otherwise the opinion is against it. Here too, I would like to refer to the role of the National Council for the Third Sector and the possibility of hearings in the Commission. Finally, the opinion is opposed to Amendments 1,239 to 1,248.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u43	The opinion was in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u44	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,201, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,202 tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to Amendments 1,203, tabled by Senator Bignami, and 1,204, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,205 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,206.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u47	MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the attention he has shown on Amendments 1,206 and 1,207. However, I should like to remind the rapporteur that Article 1 talks about guiding principles and criteria, which we believe should include the participation of citizens. However, we are adapting and therefore withdrawing, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Di Biagio, Amendment 1,206.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u50	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to sign it and put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u51	Yes, however, there is the identical amendment 1,207 by Senator Petraglia, who I think preserves it, so it will be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u54	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we maintain Amendment No 1,207 because, as I have explained in general, including the issue of the participation of citizens in the aims (while Article 4 deals with another subject) means making it part of the identity card of what is now the third sector. For us, in fact, the participation of citizens is an identifying element in relation to the meaning of the third sector today. Therefore, including this element in this House is nothing serious and would not upset the text; it is one of the issues that can help in that work of transparency and clarity that has been mentioned many times.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u55	I note that Senator Candiani calls for amendment 1,207 to be signed on behalf of the whole Group. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,206, tabled by Senators Marino Luigi and Di Biagio, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Crimi, identical to amendment 1,207, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,208, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 1,209, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that all sub-amendments to amendment 1,210 are inadmissible, with the exception of sub-amendment 1,210/7 which has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.210, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,212 is therefore excluded. Amendment 1,211 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,213 tabled by Senators Zizza and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,214.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u58	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment calls for a very clear principle: they must not be included in the definition of a third sector aimed at social production, i.e. goods, services and non-profit-making mutualities, businesses. Even if they intervene in the social field, these are economic activities that aim to produce a wealth for entrepreneurship. We believe that it is not possible to make a profit. We have said so in so many situations and, recently, we have seen what has happened on public water and how the referendum has been tormented, ignored and vile. We believe that, on the other hand, we must distinguish very clearly between the market and voluntary work, between profit and gratuitousness.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u59	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,214, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,215 tabled by Senator Bignami. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,216, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, identical to amendment 1,217, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,218 tabled by Senator Bignami. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,219.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u62	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment explicitly excludes political foundations from the measure. Let us remember that these are bodies, associations, foundations that promote the cultures of parties, or individual members of parties or internal currents. Therefore, by definition, they are promoters of a partisan interest (party derives precisely from) and therefore cannot be recognized a social, universal, collective purpose. Let us also remember that these are associations and bodies in which the governing bodies are often occupied by political personalities or appointed by them. These are companies and associations that finance parties, directly and indirectly, through the provision of services, such as studies and logistical support. They are, moreover, directly financed by economic interest groups and lobbyists, as can be those of gambling and oil. Therefore, their character as bearers of specific interests is too marked to see their recognized benefits, reliefs and benefits of any nature which, on the other hand, this law should appropriately reserve to those who pursue a collective interest free of charge. There are at least 60 such foundations registered in 2015. Most of these reside, strangely, in Lazio. Regarding the capital Mafia investigation, the magistrate Raffaele Cantone pronounced himself in a very heavy way, declaring that there was total corruption of political life and that attention had to go, not only to parties or individual representatives, but to this undergrowth of organizations where transparency is lacking. Well, also for this reason, this principle should be clarified in a delegated law. We cannot impose philanthropic aims on organizations that pursue sometimes biech and, in any case, absolutely particular interests. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u65	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u66	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,219, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,220, tabled by Senators Fattori and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,221, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,222 tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1,223, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,223 tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,224, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.225. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,226, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 1,227, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,228, tabled by Senators Molinari and Vacciano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On amendment 1,229, identical to amendment 1,230, a call for withdrawal was made. Are the presenters insisting on the vote? [[Senator De Petris points out her agreement]] Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,229, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 1,230, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 1,231, a call for withdrawal was made. Does the proposer insist on the vote? DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). I'll withdraw it, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,232 tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 1,233, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,234. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,235. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,236 tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,237, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "bodies" of "the bodies." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,238 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,239 tabled by Senators Molinari and Vacciano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,240. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,241 tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.242, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,243 tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,244 tabled by Senator Granaiola and other senators, identical to amendment 1,245, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,246 tabled by Senator Bignami. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.247, tabled by Senators Molinari and Vacciano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,248 tabled by Senators Molinari and Vacciano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u67	Mr President, I am against Amendments Nos 2,200 to 2,202. I call for the withdrawal, otherwise I am against it, of amendment 2.203, because - I am addressing my colleague, Mr Marino - it has already been incorporated in the text approved in the Commission. The same applies to Amendments Nos 2.204 and 2.205. I am against Amendments 2,206 to 2,224. I call for the withdrawal of Amendment No 2.225, otherwise I am against it, because - I am addressing Mrs Bisinella - the principle has already been incorporated into Article 5. I am against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u68	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u69	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,200. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2,200. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,201, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u72	MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I welcome the rapporteur's invitation and withdraw amendment 2.203.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u75	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I accept Amendment No 2.203 and request the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u76	The Presidency takes note of this. Let us move on to amendment 2.202, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of the amendment to amendment 2.202, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, to the words "supported." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder is therefore excluded and - despite the efforts of Senator Candiani - amendment 2.203. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.204.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u79	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment calls for the replacement of the criterion set out in point (b) of paragraph 1 of Article 2, where it is envisaged to recognise and promote private economic initiative, the conduct of which (...) may contribute to raising the levels of protection of civil and social rights. I would stress that even the text does not provide for private economic initiative to compete, but that it can contribute to raising the levels of protection of civil and social rights. However, we are talking about private economic initiative in an area, that of the protection of civil and social rights, which should be primarily the responsibility of the State, of the Republic. Now, I do not deny that private initiative can compete, but that it should be encouraged with public resources and benefits seems questionable to me. We therefore propose, with Amendment 2.204, to guarantee and recognise the social value of the activity carried out free of charge, not for direct or indirect profit, total or partial, and even if this was carried out for the production of goods and services, that this is not in any way a vehicle of profit, of private profit. This is a principle that in a delegation law should be emphasized, removed from the possibility of misunderstanding and excessive delegation, that this Government has accustomed us to see continuously. We must resume Parliament's right to give precise prescriptive instructions to the Government when it delegates the legislative function. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u82	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have asked for the floor for clarification. A short while ago Senator Luigi Marino withdrew amendment 2.203, however, that amending proposal had the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission and the rapporteur invited Senator Marino to withdraw it because it is included in a text by the rapporteur. If that is true, an amendment with the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission has been included in a rapporteur's text. I would ask for clarification on this, because I would like to understand. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If the rapporteur wanted to clarify this, he would also help the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u83	Mr President, I have said something that I imagine has been misunderstood. I said that I was calling for the withdrawal or otherwise the opinion would have been against because the text had already been transposed into the Commission and in particular the verb "favorire" was already contained in the text that came to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u84	The question was why this meaning was compatible with the opinions of the 5th Commission. Senator D'Alì, we're gonna run a background check on your observation. It will have been made compatible with the criteria of the Budget Commission, whose opinion, as we know, we have been waiting just to give our work a correct development. Moreover, for this reason there was a half-hour break: not to rest, but to have the prescribed opinions. Pending the verification, on which I reserve the right to give you details, we shall proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u87	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to Amendment 2.204.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u88	I take note of that, Senator Nugnes. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.205 tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 2.206... Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, we still have to vote on Amendment 2.204. I therefore call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.204, which was tabled by Mr Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.206 tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2,207. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.208, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.209, tabled by Senators Molinari and Vacciano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.210, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.211, tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.212, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.213, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.214, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.215, which is identical to Amendment No 2.216.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u91	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, these two amendments, like the subsequent 2.217 and 2.218, tend to give greater concreteness and precision to the point (c) of the paragraph we are talking about, which states: "to ensure, in compliance with the rules in force, the statutory autonomy of the institutions, in order to allow the full achievement of their aims and the protection of the interests involved." Now, with regard to the term "interests involved," it may not be those of the bodies, but, apart from this indeterminateness, we must understand what purpose we are talking about and we must insert prescriptive criteria to the Government for future legislative decrees. Let us therefore make a few points: for example, whether it is a question of solidarity, the protection of the interests of the communities to which they are addressing themselves, and still - and I do not really understand why the Government has expressed itself against, but perhaps I have misunderstood - the values expressed in the European Charter of Human Rights. We are talking about civil and social rights. I believe that we cannot state them so abstractly and vaguely, as it is in the text that came to us from the Commission (not because of the Commission's fault, of course, but because these were clearly the indications of a forced majority). I would ask you to confirm that I misunderstand that the Government has given an opinion against these amendments and I ask the House to vote on them because we cannot leave it to the good will of the Government - which we have never seen - to be such a sensitive issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u92	Senator Endrizzi, although you have reiterated one issue, it does not seem to me that the rapporteur and the representative of the Government intend to intervene, so I assume that they confirm the opinion expressed. I would therefore like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.215, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 2.216, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2.217. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.218. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.219, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 2.220, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.221.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u95	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, with amendment 2.221 I repeat the need to expressly provide for the absence of profit, because if we do not expressly exclude it from a delegation law, this means authorising the Government to introduce it. And, at a time when we allow profit in the management of services and activities for social purposes, we are doing a misdemeanor that offends the Constitution, which of solidarity, will, gratuitousness, mutual collaboration between citizens and social forces has made a pillar of our social co-existence. We are authorising a misdemeanor; I ask you to explicitly exclude this possibility. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u98	NUGNES (M5S). I would ask you to add my signature to Amendment 2.221.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u99	We take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.221, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.222, tabled by Senators Council and Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,223 tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.224 has been withdrawn. A call for withdrawal was made on Amendment 2.225. Are you insisting on the vote, Senator Bisonella? Bisinella (Misto-Fare!). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.225, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.226.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u102	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 2,226 does not require an explanation; it would suffice for me to read it and do so here, in the time you allow me. We must provide for regulatory instruments in order to ensure that the private economic initiative of third sector entities as defined in paragraph 1 of Article 1, if exercised with public financing or for the performance of public services, does not involve higher costs or lower level of performance than public services present or available by public administrations including in the costs any public financing, liberal disbursements, or - which are always citizens' money - collections of funds however implemented (...). Well, I believe that this is an elementary principle, which should be included. We need to verify the impact of this legislation on our welfare system, otherwise we might find ourselves too late to find out that we have been mugged having weakened what is a right for the citizen, turning it into a right to pay, that is to say in the denial of the same. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u103	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,226, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, until the words "public services" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 2.227 to 2.229 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.230, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.231.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u106	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I must accept, at least from the point of view of the dynamics of the House (not in my heart, of course), the fact that private initiative and profit are not to be excluded. However, this amendment calls at least for it to be subordinated in the order of priorities, i.e. to promote the principles of political, economic solidarity and to enhance activities based on the dimension of gratuitousness compared to those of an entrepreneurial nature. Do we at least want to acknowledge that they are not on the same level? That is simply a question. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u107	I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2.231. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator D'Alì, as regards its observation, the 5th Commission had no longer objected because the wording was not identical to that of Senator Marino's amendment, so it set clearer and stricter limits to expenditure. Therefore, it was not exactly the same text, otherwise it would have had the same opinion. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u108	Mr President, Article 3 sets out the principles and guiding criteria for revising the rules contained in the Civil Code. We have tabled four amendments aimed at covering the issues related to this article, namely simplification, transparency obligations and the regulation of the limited liability regime for legal persons. In particular, amendment 3.202 is based on the idea of simplifying the question linked to paragraph 1 (a) to the minimum terms, replacing the words:...to review and simplify the procedure for the recognition of legal personality and.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is a simplification aimed at meeting one of the three or four key points of Article 3. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u109	Mr President, I am against Amendments 3,200 to 3,113. On Amendment 3.14 the opinion supports the following rewording: "in paragraph 1 (a), add, in the end, the words: "also through publication on its institutional website" (i.e. through publication on its institutional website). I am against Amendments 3,215 and 3,216. I am in favour of amendment 3.217. I am against Amendments 3,217/1 to 3,217/7 and Amendment 3,218. I am in favour of amendment 3.219. I am against Amendments 3,220 and 221. On amendments 3.222, 3.223 and 3.224, of the same tenor, I call for the withdrawal otherwise the opinion is opposed, as the issue has been transposed and absorbed into the amendment of rapporteur 3.217, which was also moved to point (a) of the same paragraph 1. I am against Amendments 3.225 to 3.233. I am in favour of Amendment 3,234 and against Amendments 3,235 to 3,238. On Amendment 3.239, I call on the authors to withdraw or the opinion is against. I would like to address my fellow Members, Mr Dirindin, Mr Granaiola, Mr Bianco and Mr Lo Giudice, because this amendment is absorbed, with regard to its contents, albeit with different wording, by the rapporteur's amendment 3.224. The point is exactly the one contained in your amendment. Finally, I am against Amendments 3,240 to 3,244.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u110	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u113	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I invite the rapporteur: when there are identical amendments - he can do what he wants, but I say this because we have now had two examples - to that of the rapporteur, he must say that the amendment is absorbed. You cannot say that the opinion is against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He said that the principle was absorbed with different wording. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). It must say that it has been absorbed; it cannot say that the opinion is opposed because it would give an opinion contrary to its own amendment. Say, "Absorbed," so maybe it's even better.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u114	The wording was different. It's kind of the case that's happened before. However, the opinions were clear. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,200. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,200, tabled by Senators Council and Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,301, tabled by Senators Council and Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,202, tabled by Senators Council and Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 3,203. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.204.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u117	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, the amendment calls for the disclosure of budgets and allowances and fees for any of the components of the administrative and supervisory bodies to be provided for in the constituent acts of the entities to be included in the third sector. We need to know how much these people earn as remuneration for their business. We've seen how it's possible to build empires. We must ensure that there are no conflicts of interest. These are rules that we should incorporate and that we cannot allow the government's power to foresee or not. I therefore request that this amendment and the subsequent amendments be voted on for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u118	I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.204, which was tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,205 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,206.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u121	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 3.06 seeks to amend Article 3 (1) (a) by including the following after the word "predict": "in particular in the case of scientific societies." This is an important point because scientific societies are involved in drawing up different health policy plans that concern the health of citizens and, in particular, have participated very actively in the drawing up of the vaccine plan, with all the consequences of this because many conflicts of interest have been discovered. 18.59 (Following FACTORS). Therefore, when it comes to scientific societies which, in any case, affect the public health budget (which is reduced to a minimum), it is appropriate to know whether these scientific societies must make their budgets available and give them publicity, in order to verify that there are no private bodies or companies that in some way influence decisions on public health. I believe that this is a particularly important aspect. We have also tabled a question on this subject, which has not been answered. On the occasion of a recent question time, Senator Gaetti asked, again, for Minister Lorenzin to report on the budgets of scientific societies and on which private bodies contribute to it. I believe that this principle of transparency is very important to restore public confidence when we talk, for example, about vaccines because, rather than introducing the vaccination obligation for people, it could perhaps be shown that there are no private interests in the management of public affairs. Therefore, I really ask the Government to review the opinion on the amendment and colleagues to vote in favour, so that citizens can be sure that, when it comes to their health, this Parliament does not have conflicts of interest. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u122	It does not seem to me that the rapporteur and the representative of the Government intend to change their opinion. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,206, tabled by the notes Fattori and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,207. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,308, tabled by Senators Council and Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,209, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment 3,210, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,211, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to Amendment 3,212, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.13 tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Does Senator Endrizzi accept the proposal for the rewording of amendment 3.214 tabled by the rapporteur? ENDRIZZI (M5S). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u125	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, since the rewording of amendment 3,214 proposed by the rapporteur seems to me to be worthwhile, I would ask you to read it so that I can give my vote in a skilful manner. The rapporteur's proposal seems to me to be very important.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u126	Senator Volpi, I try to give account of the new text of the amendment: "to paragraph 1, letter a), to add, in the end, the words: "also through publication on its institutional website"... I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.214 (text 2), tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.215 and 3.216 are therefore incorporated. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,217/1, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,217/2, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,217/3, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,217/4, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 3,217/5, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,217/6, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 3,217/7, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,217, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,218, tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3,219/1 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,219, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,220, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to Amendment 3,221, tabled by Senators Molinari and Vacciano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.222 has been withdrawn. On Amendment 3,223 there is a call for withdrawal. Senator Di Biagio, do you welcome him? DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On Amendment 3.224 there is also an invitation to withdraw: does Senator Petraglia accept it? [[Senator Petraglia points to denial.]] DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Isn't it absorbed? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, it is not absorbed because the previous similar amendments have been withdrawn. Since the call for withdrawal was not accepted, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.224, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.225, tabled by Senator Marino Luigi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.226, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.227, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 3.228, tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.229 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,230, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to Amendment 3,331, tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.232, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other Senators, up to the words "mostly." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.233 are therefore not included. Amendment 3.234/1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,234, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,235 tabled by Senator Di Biagio, identical to Amendment 3,236, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.237 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.238, which is identical to Amendment 3.239.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u129	DIRINDIN (PD). Madam President, I withdraw amendment 3.239.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u130	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.238, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,240, tabled by Senator Granaiola and other senators, identical to Amendment 3,241, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.242, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.243.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u133	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, what do we not like about paragraph 1 (c) as it stands? The fact that it opens the way for mergers and transformations between associations and foundations, creating potentially huge aggregates, real holding companies sometimes. This is contrary to the principle by which we should make the most of the contribution of the plurality of voices, the adherence and rooting of associations and bodies in our own territory. This principle, moreover, is also stated in the Constitution. We would like to replace this letter with a forecast, which provides for the Government, to issue a separate discipline for associations and foundations, articulating it in relation to the interests involved, the assets of the institution, its size, internal relations and with third parties. We should also diversify the situations in which these rules can also be applied to other non-profit private institutions. We should ask the government to differentiate, rather than favour, as an avalanche effect, aggregations that then lead to more easily controllable bodies, perhaps in terms of the management of consensus and even electoral orientation that may result, but then difficult to anchor to the interests of the local communities and for the purposes that they should and declare to want to pursue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u134	I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 3.243. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,244, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u135	Madam President, we are asking for it to be voted on, partly because I believe that, in a reform of this scale, we should lay down rules on the organizational structure and transparency requirements. The Government must ensure that the requirements of transparency, information and advertising are guaranteed. We should also prevent illegal behaviour. Unfortunately, we have seen painfully here in Rome too, in the case of the capital mob, how there can be pollution. I am not talking about voluntary associations, but about everything that can be included, in a magmatic and indistinct way, within the measure under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u138	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to add the signature to Amendments 3.243 and 3.244.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u139	I take note of that. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.244, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 4, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u140	Madam President, Article 4 regulates the guiding principles and criteria to which legislative decrees must conform. This article is characterised by revision statements in almost all parts of the text. Amendment 4,200 calls for the deletion of the words 'and organic revision' in paragraph 1, because in this way the paragraph seems more linear to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u141	Madam President, the amendments I have tabled to Article 4 aim to broaden and clarify the criteria for transparency and quality assurance, including transparency with regard to potential users of public money. I believe that on this bill weighs a great question and, that is, if we are transforming volunteering into a tool to do business, through what has always animated volunteering, that is, if we try to replace the gaps and inability of the State or intervention in areas that however no longer intends to support, especially as a guarantee of a series of rights, such as those to assistance to people and education and with reference to a series of activities that are actually carried out by volunteering today. The question is whether the State wants to replace, at a low cost, the expenditure that the public sector has always faced through an investment that is also important and constitutionally compulsory. If the risk is that this is contained in the folds of the draft law under consideration, I believe that once the law has been made, we must give citizens all the means to verify the goodness of public money expenditure and the performance of the tasks that are declined in the statutes, to which, according to the bill, adequate publicity will be given. It is not enough to give general publicity to the contents of the statutes and general guidelines. Advertising must be given for all operations and expenses and must be compulsory not only for those new bodies that will guarantee services, but, more importantly, it must also be recognized for all the kind of boxes that could, then, contain all the subjects of the third sector. The amendments, therefore, have this purpose, so that this law can be monitored by the citizens themselves who should be users, but also, in this case, animators of the provision of the services intended for them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u142	Madam President, I am against Amendments 4,200 to 4,252. I call for the withdrawal of Amendments 4,253 and 4,254.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u143	They've already been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u144	Mr Lepri, rapporteur. In both cases I would have proposed the call for withdrawal as it was incorporated in the amendment already adopted in the Commission and in the text to the attention of the Assembly, in paragraph 1 (h) of this Article. Therefore, attention to the full application of national collective labour agreements is already clearly indicated in the text approved in the Commission. I am against Amendments 4.255 to 4.272. I call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against, on Amendments 4.273 and 4.274, because the subject of controls is dealt with extensively afterwards, in Article 7, and, as far as the protection of work is concerned, I have already said before. I am against Amendment 4,275. Amendment 4.276 provides for the possibility of extending the operation of voluntary service centres in favour of all third sector actors. This is expected, but limited to volunteers in third sector bodies. So, to some extent, the proposal which has been transposed into the Commission and which has arrived in this House contains these suggestions. I therefore make a call for withdrawal on this amendment, otherwise the opinion is against it. The opinion is opposed to Amendments 4,277 and 4,278. I am in favour of amendment 4.279, first signed by Senator Catalfo, if reworded as follows: "In paragraph 1, replace letter l) with the following: " (l) in order to ensure the absence of lucrative purposes, promote a principle of proportionality between the various economic and disciplinary treatments, in full respect of the principles of transparency, and then continue as the amendment states. This is in order to make the most of the principle of proportionality between economic processes, which was indeed important and which we accept by expressing a favourable opinion, even with the rewording that I have said on the amendment in question. The same applies to amendment 4.280, which is essentially identical to the previous one. The opinion is opposed to Amendments 4,281 to 4,313. On Amendment 4.314, tabled by Senators Luigi Marino and Di Biagio, I would like to call for the withdrawal of the opinion, otherwise the opinion is against it, because this is also the issue of collective agreements, transposed with an amendment approved in the Commission and arrived at as a text in this House. The same applies to Amendment 4.315. I am against Amendments 4.316 to 4.319. I urge the presenter, Senator Di Biagio, to withdraw amendment 4,320 as it is absorbed by Senator Catalfo's amendment 4,279, with the same orientation, otherwise the opinion is against it. The opinion was opposed to amendment 4.321. The rapporteur's amendment 4.322 is withdrawn, since amendments 4.323, signed by Senator Guerra and other Senators, and 4.324, signed by Senator Petraglia and other Senators, on which the opinion is in favour, are preferable, albeit with the same wording. I am against Amendments 4.325 to 4.341 and the G4100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u145	Madam President, the Government's opinion on the amendments is in line with that of the rapporteur. As far as the agenda for the G4100 is concerned - and I would also like to propose it to the rapporteur - the opinion is in favour if the mechanism is reworded by replacing the first commitment with the words: • to ensure that the following are taken into account: • to assess the appropriateness and, in the second commitment, the whole period with the following: • to assess the need for the management of social services to be always entrusted to those who offer serious guarantees of transparency and integrity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u146	Perhaps if you give us the text we will give it to the presenter, who in the meantime will be able to evaluate it so that, when we get to the point, he can tell us whether or not he accepts the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u149	MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I welcome the rapporteur's invitation and withdraw Amendments 4.211, 4.212, 4.284 and 4.314.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u152	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). I too welcome the rapporteur's invitation and withdraw my amendments to Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u155	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask you to endorse the amendments that have just been withdrawn by Senators Marino Luigi and Di Biagio.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u156	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,200. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,200, tabled by Senators Council and Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 42.01. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4.202. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.203, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.204, tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4205 tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 4206, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4207. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4.208. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.209, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators, identical to amendments 4.210, tabled by Senator Di Biagio, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Candiani, and 4.211, tabled by Senators Marino Luigi and Di Biagio, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.212, tabled by Senator Marino Luigi, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.213, tabled by Senator Dirindin and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendments 4.214, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators, and 4.215, tabled by Senator Di Biagio, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.216, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.217.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u159	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, this amendment calls for provision to be made, within the framework of the legislative decrees, for members and workers of third sector bodies to report, within the institution, any illegality and irregularities according to the whistleblowing model. We are saying, that is, that it is an interest of the whole category of this sector, and of the many virtuous realities that really make up one of the bones of this country, to see their credibility protected through a more effective possibility of exposing the few realities where instead they perpetuate even serious crimes, as we have seen recently. We need an alliance with all those who can have a privileged point of view, in order to get to the judiciary as soon as possible any distortion, to protect a heritage on which our coexistence is based.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u160	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.217, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.218, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.219, tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.20 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.221, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.222, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, until the words "civil code" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.223 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.224.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u163	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, this amendment calls for provision to be made for third sector entities using public funds to purchase goods and services to meet the price and quality parameters set by Council. When a third sector entity makes a purchase, using public resources, it must also be bound by the criteria of effective and efficient use of these resources. Precisely because of the fact that it is performing part of a public function, it must meet the same requirements as public administrative activity must have, i.e. those of effectiveness and efficiency. We cannot afford to allow these bodies to benefit from public funding - I am of course referring to that small part of situations where illegality or gray situations are perpetuated - to guarantee the seller a profit on the materials, goods or services offered.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u164	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.224, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.225, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4.26. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.227, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4.28. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of Amendment 4,229, until the word "previdendo" is mentioned. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.230 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4,231 tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4,232. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4,233. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4,234 tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, identical to Amendment 4,235 tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.236, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4,237. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.238, tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.239, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4,240. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.241 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4,242, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,243, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.244, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 4.245, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.246, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators, identical to amendment 4.247, tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.248.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u167	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I regret that there has been no acceptance of Amendment 4,245. It was simply asked to apply anti-corruption legislation to entities that have economic relations of more than EUR 40,000 with institutions of different levels, in particular with ASLs. Similarly, Amendment 4.248 simply calls for respect for an ethical issue, namely that the members of the administrative and supervisory bodies within these institutions cannot be attributed more than five times the remuneration of the employees of the same institution. I believe that in an institution where activities and functions of solidarity, service and protection of civil and social rights are carried out, there must be no such high inequalities. It is, however, a principle that we have seen accepted on some other occasion, although rarely, and we would like to see it applied here too.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u168	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.248, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.249, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4,250. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4,251, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators, until the words "comma 1" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.252 are therefore excluded. Amendments 4.253 and 4.254 have been withdrawn. I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4,255, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.256, tabled by Senators Cioffi and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.257 tabled by Senators Mussini and Simeoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.258, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,259 tabled by Senator Marino Luigi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4260 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.261, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.262, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.263, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.264, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.265, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.266.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u171	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, the amendment simply calls for the beneficiaries of the activities and interventions to be involved in the evaluation processes. Where we recognise a public function, under the subsidiarity regime, to these bodies in relation to the tasks of the State's public administration, we should always have a confirmation and opinions from the citizens who benefit from these activities, especially when there is public funding or tax relief, even those paid from citizens' resources.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u172	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.266, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.267, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.268, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,269 tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,270, tabled by Senators Cioffi and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,271, tabled by Senators Torrisi and Marino Luigi, identical to amendments 4,272, tabled by Senator Galimberti, and 4,273, tabled by Senator Crimi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,274 tabled by Senators Cioffi and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,275 tabled by Senators Mussini and Simeoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4,276, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4,276 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.277, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 4.278, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask the presenters of the same amendments 4.279 and 4.280 if they wish to accept the proposal for a rewording which the rapporteur has already put forward. CATALFO (M5S). Yes, ma'am, I accept that. Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). I, too, Madam President, accept it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is President Tonini, I invite you to give your opinion under Rule 100 (7) of the Senate Rules of Procedure on the reworded text.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u173	Madam President, the rewording of the amendment is not such as to call into question the opinion of nothing previously expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u174	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.279 (text 2), tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators, identical to amendment 4.280 (text 2), tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 4,281 to 4,286 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.287, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 4.288, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,289.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u177	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, Amendment 4,289 provides that, where a third-sector body carries out activities for more than one year exclusively and entirely on behalf of the public administration (i.e. it is implicitly issued or in any case having a relationship too privileged to be considered as a totally free entity), this is subject to the application of anti-corruption legislation and, more generally, of the legislation applied to public administration in relation to the inconferability and incompatibility of tasks.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u178	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.289, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4,290 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to Amendment 4,291, tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4,292, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,293 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4,294, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u179	Madam President, we are asking for the vote. With this amendment we propose to replace the words: "of a single register". We shall also speak on this subject in an explanation of vote because we have a great deal to do with it. Having heard the State-Regions Conference, we ask that regional experience be taken into account. We are not only talking about Lombardy and Veneto, but also about Emilia Romagna, Liguria, Tuscany and Marche. Surely this amendment could have been worthy of attention, but it is clear that the whole of the measure is probably based on the pillar of the single register, which we have not shared since the beginning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u180	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote of amendment 4,294 tabled by Senators Council and Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,295, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4,266, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u181	Madam President, we are asking for the vote. Amendment 4.296 calls for the replacement of a few words in point (m) of Article 4 (1) where a register of the third sector is to be established at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. On the other hand, we believe that this register should be set up in an independent agency for the third sector, which includes, in addition to the ministries concerned, the National Anti-corruption Authority and the most representative associations for the protection of taxpayers and consumers. We believe that in this way the function of control by the Government, which is too suspiciously pushing this measure with aims that are very often not well attributable to those declared, and it approaches the citizens, those public bodies that protect the citizens and finally the associations that spontaneously constitute themselves to safeguard those interests. We would be able to come back to this when we look at Article 7, but for the time being I would ask you to vote in favour of Amendment 4,296.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u182	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.296, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4,297, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,297 tabled by Senators Council and Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4,298, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.298, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4,299, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to Amendment 4,300, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4301. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4,302, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CATALFO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,302, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4.303. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 4,304 is impervious. I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4.305. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4306 tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4,307. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4.308. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.309, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.310, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.311, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.312, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.313, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.314, tabled by Senators Marino Luigi and Di Biagio, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Candiani, identical to amendment 4.315, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.316, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.317, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.318, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.318, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.319, tabled by Senators Mussini and Simeoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,320, tabled by Senator Di Biagio, who subsequently withdrew and made his own by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.321, tabled by Senators Mussini and Simeoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.322 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.323, tabled by Senator Guerra and other senators, identical to amendment 4.324, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.325 and 4.326 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.327, which is identical to Amendment 4.328.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u183	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u185	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, with Article 4 (p) the text proposed by the Commission wants the Government to recognise and enhance the second-level associative networks, i.e. aggregations between entities in the third sector, also with a view to increasing their representativeness with institutional entities. We believe that this could lead to the risk of a reduction of the plurality of the voices and, in some way, can define privileged communication paths between the Government, also of the territory, and the associations of the second level. Instead, we believe that in these aggregate processes, which may be there, we must guarantee the representativeness of the smaller bodies among institutional entities - in some way we leave to the Government the responsibility to define them, but without being able to release themselves from this obligation - and then to these institutions access to the possibility of initiative, contact and collaboration, even if they are small. I am thinking, for example, of the importance that so many of these realities have at local level, where politics and administration are often carried out that are most virtuous and close to the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u186	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.327, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 4.328, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,329, which is essentially the same as Amendment 4,330.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u189	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, this amendment is very important. I didn't understand what the government felt about it: did you give an opinion against it? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is the opposite view of the rapporteur and the government. PUGLIA (M5S). This is a fundamental amendment, adding a p-a letter, which prescribes, for third sector entities - we recall that, in accordance with Article 1, these are private entities established for the pursuit, non-profit, of civic, solidarity and social usefulness purposes and that, in implementation of the principle of subsidiarity and in accordance with their respective statutes or constituent acts, promote and carry out activities of general interest, through voluntary and free action, mutuality or the production or exchange of goods or services - and for social enterprises the prohibition of the provision of any form of financing, direct or indirect, to political parties or movements. Let me make it clear straight away that you must not be frightened, because banks are excluded from this rule. Article 1 clarifies that: The provisions of this Act shall not apply to banking foundations, as institutions contributing to the pursuit of the purposes of this law. Do not be afraid, therefore: you can still take the money that the banks give you. That's why you make the laws for them. [[Comments of Senator Fornaro]] In addition to this, I would like to point out, Mr President, that, by means of this amendment, a Buzzi or a Carminati is prevented from financing President Renzi's electoral dinners. If you therefore vote on this amendment, you will say that you have nothing to do with Buzzi, Carminati and Mafia Capitale. Show what you want to do! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u190	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.329, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 4.330, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4.331, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators, until the words "prohibited." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 4.332 and 4.333 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.334, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4.335. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.336 tabled by Senators Mussini and Simeoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.337, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.337, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "predict the institution." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 4.338 and 4.339 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,340, tabled by Senator Di Biagio, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.341, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On the G4100 agenda, the government representative proposed a rewording. Senator Cioffi, are you welcome?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u191	Madam President, I only accept the rewording because it seems to me very nice that the rapporteur has given an opinion against it and that the Government has given a favourable opinion. I accept the rewording only for this and insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u192	On the agenda, Mr G4,100 (text 2) the rapporteur complied with the Government's favourable opinion. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4.100 (text 2), presented by Senators Cioffi and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u195	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the day began twelve hours ago with the serious Brussels attacks. It will not escape anyone who, while we are completing these votes, the news agencies report to us the events that are increasingly worrying in their indefinition. On the part of our Group there is the need, I believe, also shared by other senators, to have information on this from the Government in the Senate Chamber. We have a concern that Parliament must certainly dissipate with certainty that the Government must give. What is happening shakes us deeply. A day of reflection was necessary, but now it is necessary for the government to be certain. We therefore ask that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, or the Minister of the Interior, or a representative of the Government report to the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u196	The President of the Senate will make contacts to verify when this will be possible and news will be given to the Groups as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u197	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] Colleagues, I have not heard any other proposals put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u198	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u200	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, given the timetable for work, which is likely to be completed tomorrow, and since we are more than half of the time in the analysis of the article, I think we could interrupt here and be adjourned at the next sitting. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u201	In fact, we did 206 votes and, therefore, we have worked very hard. If there are no objections from the other groups, so it remains established, and we postpone the continuation of the discussion to tomorrow's session, unless the President of the Senate, acquired the understandings with the Government, can announce an information. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u204	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I am speaking about the recent establishment of a highly qualified research centre in the former Expo area. This is a very interesting and disturbing affair, because it potentially represents a change in research policy in Italy. But let's proceed with order. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u205	Colleagues, I would ask you to respect Senator Bocchino and leave the Chamber and keep the noise at an acceptable volume.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u206	Please continue, Senator Bocchino. BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Thank you, Madam President. On 25 November 2015, the Government issued Decree-Law No 185, introducing urgent measures for interventions in the territory, which, in Article 5, brings a financing of 80 million euros for the Italian Institute of Technology that - be careful - is a foundation under private law. This funding is similar to that dedicated to all seventy Italian universities and twelve public research institutions, approved a few weeks earlier by the Stability Act. We are therefore in the presence of the use of a very powerful amount of money. Well, on 24 February last, the Italian Institute of Technology delivered the executive project of the great research center and in a press conference the President of the Council announced the contribution of an additional 150 million per year for ten years, equal to 1.5 billion euros. In the months between November and February the scientific director of the Italian Institute of Technology carried out what we can call a scouting operation, trying to involve, with rather obscure and intransparent methods, rectors of public universities and presidents of public research bodies, in particular CNR, and even a member of Parliament, Senator Cattaneo, a scientist of clear fame. In fact, Senator Cattaneo, in an article published in the Republic on 26 February, denounced the fact that the scientific director of the Italian Institute of Technology - a person who, among other things, has been in charge of this task since the foundation of the Institute in 2003 and without expiry of mandate, being it a foundation under private law - with a phone call he proposed to her to be involved in the scientific project. The same senator defines this attempt as a clear derailment of public ethics and a corruption of the ethics of science, as it denies and conflicts with an objective, comparative, transparent and participatory evaluation among the possible contents of Human Technopole. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, there is a real change of direction in this country's research policy. We have moved from allocating resources to public bodies on the basis of competitive calls for resources to a private institution which, with obscure mechanisms, redistributes these resources to friends and acquaintances. Announces the presentation of a parliamentary question to know who and how he has commissioned the Italian Institute of Technology to proceed in this way, absolutely deplorable, for the advancement of knowledge and research in this country. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senators Gatti and Tocci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u209	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I am here to denounce once again what is happening in this country, before the government that does absolutely nothing. Vita da precari: this is what the Renzi Government and the PD majority, the Italian left, are ensuring to the workers. I am referring in particular to the sector of seasonal work, whose workers, by political decision of this Government, are now destined to live precariously. These are people who work in a particular sector and maybe live in areas where seasonality exists, where the activities are open six or eight months and then, the rest of the time, it is total darkness. What did the government do to them? He cut them half the unemployment benefit. So how do these people live today? The government had said, through some of its representatives, that it would solve the problem - we have also read statements to the press - but of course, as always, they are just bullshit. We must stop saying lies to people, because they really live serious problems every day, especially when for years they have organized their lives in a certain way, also professional, and have done targeted studies and then work in the seasonal sector. What does the government do? Throw these people out the window. Madam President, I would also like to ask a question concerning school co-workers, and particularly those people who give more than fifteen years work in schools. They were LSU before, and the government invented the term co.co.co. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask colleagues to allow Secretary Pizzetti to listen to a request for a question. PUGLIA (M5S). Thank you, President. Undersecretary, I would like to ask the question, of which I do not remember now the number, which relates in particular to school coco.co.co.c. They were former LSUs, people who have always worked precariously for the State, and from this transformed into co.co.co and, therefore, into further precarious. Well, since they are people who have been working for more than fifteen years - someone even for twenty years - at this point why not stabilize them?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u210	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u212	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, on 8 March, in Venice, between Italy and France, represented respectively by Matteo Renzi and Francois Hollande, the additional protocol to the agreement of 24 February 2015 concerning the final work of the cross-border section of the new Turin-Lyon railway line was signed. A press note was issued by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers on this occasion, highlighting two main points: the validation of the certified cost of the project and the criteria for re-evaluation, and the issue of anti-mafia controls. Now, it is clear to everyone that, with regard to the issue of crime, the anti-mafia code will not apply to the TAV work of Turin-Lion on Italian territory, because it is excluded from the law of ratification (No 71 of 23 April 2014, published in the Official Gazette on 7 May 2014) of the 2012 agreement between Italy and France. Therefore, in order to be able to apply again the anti-mafia code in the portion of Italian territory subject to the contracts TAV Torino-Lion, a generic commitment to fight organised crime, which seems to be present in the new agreement, is not enough. Nor is it sufficient for the promoter TELT to have its own regulatory protocol on the application of the anti-mafia code, having no legislative competence. It is necessary to use the legislative instrument: therefore, a new agreement between Italy and France will need to repeal the aforementioned articles of the 2012 agreement, which will then have to be merged into our legal system through a new law of ratification. This is one of the problems, but surely there are other opacityes. We would also like to examine - for example - the cost issue, but it is impossible. It is clear that the press note from the Presidency of the Council cannot be regarded as the basis of this House's work or of the whole Parliament. However, the text of the agreement, which must be ratified in these classrooms, has not been released: is it secret? Is this the much praised transparency of the President of the Council of Ministers and Mr Delrio? I also urge the Presidency of the Senate to take charge of the dissemination of the signed text to allow all senators to be counted. Until we can see it, all the good things Renzi and the singer company here in the Senate are just smoke and no roast, unfortunately. By the way, it's an acre smoke, a burnt smoke. Perhaps it is the money of Italian citizens who are irreparably reduced to ashes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u213	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-597.ana.u214	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 23 March, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.25 p.m.
