ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 25 February.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u10	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, I wanted to inform the House of my request yesterday at the Conference of Leaders. I have invited you to make the appropriate arrangements with my colleague, President of the House of Deputies, so that this does not happen when a very important and strategic decree-law on the reform of the banking sector, such as that on the reform of popular banks, is adopted. On that occasion the House drew up its own text, transmitted it to us on 17 March and we had only five days to hesitate and vote on it, a place which expired on 25 March. The Senate has been expropriated - excuse me - of its functions in the analysis and evaluation of a great structural reform of the banking sector. Well, what is happening and what should I avoid, Mr President? First of all, I would have expected the Government to take account of logic and custom (which does not depend on the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate, but who can intervene, in terms of moral suasion with regard to relations with Parliament), respecting a principle of wisdom, that of the shuttle and the balance of the first readings in the event of measures affecting the same sector. I would have expected that on this occasion of the transmission of the decree-law of cooperative credit reform, which so much debate has aroused within the country, it would be assigned at first reading to the Senate, since on other subject it had not had the opportunity to intervene. Well, we have learned with regret that, again on this occasion, the Government has sent the text to the Chamber of Deputies. We know that the decree-law is still in its infancy, so much so that in the Commission we are even at the stage of the hearings, not even the examination of the amendments, and so we would like to avoid - I say this politely, but firmly - that we can repeat the second half of a film that has already been seen, namely that the Senate cannot examine, discuss, modify and say its own about the second structural reform of the banking world. At this point I could comment with a joke: we abolished the Senate two years before the entry into force of the constitutional reform. Mr President, allow me to say this - albeit very bitter - in the hope that it will remain just one joke. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Guerra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u13	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to remind Mr Schifani that he is a member of the majority. We have often complained that the decree-laws come late to this House and that oppositions have no way of speaking and saying their own. Therefore, I invite both you and the majority leaders to come to an agreement, because the banking sector, today and today, is showing gaps, made precisely by the majority. Finally, I would like to mention the legislative decree before the Finance Committee, both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate, in which they are trying to shorten the time limits for the expropriation of houses. Therefore, it is useless that Senator Schifani now remembers that this Assembly also exists, because it is part of the majority and therefore is responsible, like the PD, for everything that is happening in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u16	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to join in the invitation made by Senator Schifani, considering that it is not absolutely useless, but rather an important sign of the possibility that, at last, relations between the House and the Senate can be rebalanced, also for the intervention of an authoritative representative of the majority. We are particularly alarmed about this, Mr President, because we are continuing to press ahead with lawsuits, in a sector that is fundamental to the country's economy, such as the banking system, while all the parliamentary initiatives that would like to make Parliament the main actor of these reforms are taking place. I am referring in particular to the law for the establishment of the Commission - of inquiry or investigation - on the banking system and what has happened in the context of the popular banks, which are about to be wound up without Parliament being able to intervene to establish certain criteria or temperaments - I have allowed myself to remember this in a recent debate - which can avoid devastating impacts on the country's economy. Banks can also be restored and courtesies done to bankers, but there is a risk of weakening the real economy of the country further - from what I hear also about other measures - when we expect discounts, tax incentives and incentives, altering the market, as is happening in the real estate sector, to the advantage of an alleged recovery of the banks. In my opinion, this benefits, instead, a very strong speculative operation on the credits and real estate of many Italian citizens. On behalf of the Group, I therefore support the appeal made by President Schifani in the hope that, if it is not accepted, some of the majority can be removed from the final approval of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u19	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, the LN-Aut Group also urges the Presidency of the Senate to more effectively protect the exercise of the legislative power of this House. Last week two measures were launched, one of which was a decree-law, through two votes of confidence and this week there is a rumor that this instrument can also be used with regard to the draft law on road murder. There are issues of some relevance to the banking world that are being dealt with in the Finance Commission. We would not like the system to be adopted on these issues relating to the lives of citizens to examine the measures at the last moment, with a debate that does not take seriously the issues we are dealing with. We are talking about the measure concerning the possibility of expropriation of housing by banks with procedures much faster and more incisive than in the past or that concerning the world of cooperative banks. We therefore call on you, Mr President, because more than that we cannot do, so that you can interpret the need for the Senate to be able to exercise full legislative power; a power which is constitutional and which in recent weeks and months has been mortified by the choices made by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u22	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to agree with Mr Schifani's remarks, because this incident which may occur is combined with ten days of parliamentary life (as I say) in which I believe all the records of overtaking Parliament's prerogatives by the Government have been reached. We voted on the draft law on civil unions with a vote of confidence on a government text never seen in the Commission and today we are talking about trust in road murder. However, I would remind my colleagues that it is not the text that the Senate amended with a choral vote, eliminating a whole part that we found later, returning from the House, upset, and on which the Government placed trust. These events concerning the banks, which concern and involve public opinion, risk also this time finding the Senate completely overtaken on fundamental issues related to the relationship between citizen, banking and economic power. Mr President, if this continues, it is clear that the reform of the Senate has already taken place, in the sense that this body, in fact, has already been repealed: it no longer has any function. I therefore support the request that this measure be examined in good time. On this occasion, starting with the conclusion, I still remind you that we are waiting for that memory of the Government on the matter of stepchild adoption, of which also this morning all the newspapers speak, recalling the last sentence of the court of Rome, but that the Senate has not yet been able to acquire, so it has not yet been able to read the considerations that the State's Court, on behalf of the Presidency of the Council, has made on this sensitive matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u25	VACCIANO (Mixed). Mr President, I am speaking as a Member of the 6th Commission who will be facing the measure which is the subject of this debate at first instance when it arrives. I take the floor because I made a similar speech as soon as the measure was allocated to the other branch of Parliament and I add two operational considerations. In fact, in this branch of Parliament we had two important events: a survey of the banking system, which involved the 6th Commission for months reaching a level of in-depth analysis that I consider to be optimal on many issues, and a workshop exclusively on the subject of the reform of cooperative credit banks. The result of these two events was that none of the measures involving the banking world began its process in this branch of Parliament. I wonder, then, what has been the use of this work that has been carried out, if the great and important work carried out in this branch of Parliament is not even recognized, which I have not yet abolished (so it would have its dignity). It is important - as I said in the Commission and I repeat this in this House - that when the measure arrives here, it will come with the necessary time so that the process that follows is not merely formal, as was the case with other measures which have taken place in the banking world, but it will allow us that degree of intervention possible thanks to the experience gained in the survey and in the direct comparison with the cooperative credit banks, which has enriched our Commission and I believe that it can enrich and improve a measure with respect to the excellent work that they will certainly do in the other branch of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u28	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, it seems to me that this last subject, which was effectively referred to by my previous colleague, namely the scientific investigation carried out in the Senate by the 6th Commission, largely justified the transposition of the concern expressed by Senator Schifani yesterday at the Conference of Leaders and this morning in this House. It is not a meaningless competition that exists within a bicameralism that still exists between the balances of the House and the Senate: it is the respect of the Parliament institution, which is made up of one branch and the other. From this point of view, the Senate, I would say, overall, regardless of the path of constitutional reform that has been undertaken in this legislature, feels quite orphaned of a Minister "of Parliament" in relations with the Government. The government has its Minister for relations with Parliament and is rightly effective, but the Senate does not feel that it is represented in this sense and the fact that those who chair it are always referring - in my opinion improperly but I would also say unpleasant and uncomfortable - to relations of majority and opposition with respect to the measures of merit, shows that this concern is more than legitimate among us. It also shows how sad and melancholy it is with regard to the civilization of Parliament that Senator Schifani had to echo this morning's speech in this House with regard to a more than motivated concern about the path of an affair, that of our banks, on which even - it seems to me less than a month ago - we had a very authoritative debate in the Senate with the President of the Council, with deep and motivated speeches by my colleague Tremonti and other colleagues no less prestigious than him. I should also like to ask you, on behalf of our Group, to take more careful account of both yesterday's speech by President Schifani and the words with which you referred today. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senators Giovanardi and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u31	Mr Fornaro (PD). Mr President, I agree with the views of many Members who have also been the subject of reflection in the 6th Commission. As has been pointed out, during the reform of the system of popular banks, this branch of Parliament had not been placed in a position to express its own assessment and it is absolutely desirable that this does not happen again for the conversion into law of this decree-law which also concerns the reform, among other things, of the cooperative credit banks system. I therefore call on the President of the Senate to be an interpreter, in the Presidency of the House, of the need for the time to be respected and given the possibility of a discussion on this reform which contains elements of criticality which, I would like to remind you, were strongly underlined yesterday in the hearing of Dr Barbagallo, head of the banking and financial supervision department of Bankitalia. There is therefore all the evidence that this branch of Parliament, both in the Commission and in this House, is given the opportunity to devote the necessary time to an important step in a sector that is absolutely widespread and rooted in the territory, because there is at stake not only the credibility of our banking system but also - I stress - the confidence of savers in the banking system itself. I therefore believe that this must be done in absolute transparency by paying attention, on the one hand, to the stability of our banking system and, on the other - as I said before - to the issue of the relationship of trust between savers and this historical and widespread system of cooperative credit that has deep roots in the history of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify this issue. I am sorry that Senator Schifani, who raised him, has left but I hope he will read the shorthand report. Beyond what may be the powers of the President of the Senate, who will certainly be activated, towards the President of the House for the purposes of the necessary agreements, it must be borne in mind that the provision has already been scheduled in the Chamber for Monday, March 14, with an afternoon and afternoon session and possible night continuation. Therefore, the examination of the decree-law of reform of cooperative credit banks has an iter already calendarized. I would like to repeat to Senator Schifani - whom I thank for coming back to the Chamber because he will be able to understand the meaning of my reply - that the powers of the President of the Senate will be activated but, beyond these, the examination of the bill of conversion of the decree-law in question is already planned in the House. [[Applause from Senator Carraro]] I would remind President Schifani that it would be useful and fair for the House's group leaders to take up their own initiatives in order to complete as soon as possible the legislative process of the bill. I repeat that an afternoon session was scheduled for Monday 14 March, an afternoon with possible night-time continuation; so apparently there is all the will to finish the work as soon as possible, but of course it depends on the majority group leaders (and the group leaders in general) to start and quickly complete the legislative process. So, with all due respect for my powers, that's the point, since the bill has already been scheduled. The Leaders may also request an advance of the bill's schedule in the House, which the President of the Senate of course cannot ask for or do. Having said that, however, we hope that the measure will come in time to be treated as is appropriate in the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u33	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-D, already approved by the Senate in a text resulting from the unification of the own-initiative drafts of Senators Scilipoti Isgrò; Falanga; Moscardelli and others; Stucchi; Ginetti; modified by the Chamber of Deputies, again modified by the Senate and again modified by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Cucca, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have now reached the fifth parliamentary examination of the draft law on so-called road homicide, which, during the troubled legislative process, has undergone significant changes compared to the text that the Senate has hesitated to read at first reading. My report will be devoted to a brief excursus on the procedure for examining the measure, and then briefly discuss the illustration of the only change made during the second reading by the House of Deputies, with the approval of the new text, which took place on 21 January. The most important changes were made during the first reading, when the House of Deputies amended the provision. I recall that the new article 589-a was initially inserted into the penal code, which constitutes the case of the crime of street murder, punishing it for guilt, with a imprisonment of different entities because of the degree of the fault itself. The important element of the entire bill is precisely that, by clearing the field from the many debates that had taken place on the subject, the crimes we are talking about are configured solely from the point of view of guilt. During the first reading by the Chamber of Deputies, for reasons of system, the case of manslaughter committed in violation of the rules on road traffic has been moved in the new article 589- bis, maintaining the penalties that were already provided for in article 589, paragraph 2, of the penal code. Therefore, the original article 3 approved by the Senate had been expunged from the aforementioned article 589, paragraph 2. Therefore, the remainder of Article 589 concerns today - once the draft law is passed - only the case of manslaughter committed in breach of the rules on the prevention of accidents at work. A first distinction has therefore been made in relation to the original Article 589 from which - as I said - all the rules concerning crimes committed in breach of the rules on road traffic, which have been included in Article 589-a. As a result of this change, we will certainly have a more comprehensive system, distinguishing between the criminal cases we are dealing with. The new wording of article 589-bis basically confirms the text that had been approved by the Senate, punishing with the imprisonment from eight to twelve years the road murder committed by drivers of a motor vehicle in a state of serious alcoholic drink (i.e. - this is also a significant introduction - with an alcohol content exceeding 1.5 grams per litre, thus constituting, in good substance, the only serious hypothesis), or psycho-physical alteration resulting from the intake of narcotic or psychotropic substances. The provision also punishes drunk driving with alcohol rates of more than 0.8 grams per litre or psychophysical alteration resulting from the use of psychotropic drugs, where the offence has been committed by particular categories: e.g. those professionally engaged in the transport of persons and goods; drivers of motor vehicles, whether or not with trailers, of a total mass of more than 3.5 tonnes; drivers of buses and other motor vehicles intended for the transport of more than eight persons; drivers of articulated and self-sealed motor vehicles. In essence, these are cases that have always been defined as zero tolerance and are therefore punished with the same penalty, extremely serious even where the alcohol content is higher than only 0.8%. In the gradation that was introduced with the amendment of the Chamber is punished with the imprisonment from five to ten years (initially a minimum of seven years was expected) the manslaughter of manslaughter committed by drivers of a motor vehicle that drive in an alcoholic state with an alcohol content exceeding 0,8 - but not exceeding, as mentioned above, 1,5 grams per litre - that have exceeded specific speed limits (speed equal to or greater than twice the speed allowed or at least 70 kilometers per hour in an urban center, or at least 50 kilometers per hour compared to the maximum speed allowed on extra-urban roads), that have crossed semaphoric intersections arranged to red or have circulated counterhand, that have carried out manoeuvres of reversal of the direction in proximity or correspondence of intersections, curves or bumps or that have carried out dared overtakes. The last two hypotheses - as I said - have been introduced in the course of the examination in the Chamber and are also now reported in the text formulated by the Government in confidence in the third reading here in the Senate. Now, this is the general system that has been planned. Additional cases had also been introduced, in particular increases in penalties in the event of driving without a licence or without an insurance contract (of course if the offence was committed driving a vehicle owned, otherwise it would not be logical, not having responsibility for the fact that the vehicle was not insured). The last paragraph of the new Article 589-bis of the Criminal Code provides for a higher penalty if the driver causes the death of more than one person or the death of one or more persons and injuries to one or more persons. The application of the sentence, in this case, should be imposed on the most serious of the violations committed, increased up to three times, but setting a ceiling of eighteen years. This is another difference from the original text of Article 589, which has been amended, because the ceiling was set for fifteen years. Another important circumstance to stress is that of the driver's escape. The new Article 589-b provides for an aggravating circumstance in the event that the driver responsible for the manslaughter has fled. In this case, there has been an increase in sentence from one third to two thirds and that in any case the penalty cannot be less than five years. All this is repeated speculatively - of course by graduating the penis in a lighter way - in the hypothesis that personal injury was caused by the sinister manslaughter. Once again, with the introduction of Article 590-a, we have given greater systematicity to the subject; we believe that in this way we have given an answer to those who had objected to the disorganicity of the text by comparing the old wording of Articles 589 and 590, since - as I said - the two norms are substantially speculative and simply differ in the gradation of the penalties and for a lesser severity of the penalties themselves in the case of personal injury. A single amendment has therefore been made during the reading in the House of Deputies, with the approval of the new text which we are going to examine today. The amendment was made to Article 1 (6) (a) of the draft law under consideration. In the text approved at the third reading to the Senate, the paragraph provided for the repeal of article 189, paragraph eight, of Legislative Decree No 285 of 30 April 1992, the so-called road code. In the Chamber of Deputies it was decided to re-introduce the paragraph of Article 189 of the Road Code, but with a slight change. In fact, it has been established that the driver of the vehicle who, having caused a road accident, stops and, if necessary, assists those who have suffered damage to the person, making himself available to the judicial authorities, is not subject to the arrest established for the case of flagrant crime if the crime of personal injury results from the accident in question. The old text, still in force today, has therefore been reintroduced, referring it, however, to the sole hypothesis in which the crime of personal injury derives from the sin, expunging, instead, the hypothesis in which the crime of manslaughter derives from the sin, in which case it can give rise to the arrest. The only change that we have to deal with today in the Senate is the one just illustrated. The hope is, therefore, that final approval will be reached as soon as possible. In this way, with the entry into force of the legislation, we will finally give a serious and concrete answer to the question of justice too often remained unheard, in recent years in particular, in the face of the many striking cases that too often fill the chronicles, even recent ones, in which innocent people, young people, fathers and mothers of families, children, remain victims of road accidents caused by people who put themselves to drive after having taken alcoholic or narcotic substances and implement driving behaviours absolutely contrary to the precepts dictated by the code of the road. The new law is certainly perfect - as we have said at all stages of the examination - but I am sure that much can be done and will be done with the reform of the road code, which is being discussed today in the 8th Commission. It is certain, however, that since this text became law there will be a change of pace. As I have said on many occasions, the new law will demonstrate a deterrent effectiveness and will contribute in a way, I believe, decisive to the spread of a basic rule for those who are driving a vehicle, conscious of having in their hands a means that can prove to be a lethal weapon: we must get used to the principle that the driver does not drink and the drinker does not drive. This is in the knowledge that it is necessary to continue on the path already taken by this Government to support education campaigns among citizens and in schools, as well as to intensify controls. This is an absolutely significant fact: together we must all try to do everything possible to allow greater prevention, through stricter and more widespread controls by the Forces of Order, which must be adequately supported and supported by appropriate means and resources. Finally, I would like to express my thanks, which is not only formal, for all those who have supported parliamentary and governmental activity in recent years, in particular to the various and numerous associations of the family members of the victims of the road, who have always encouraged and urged the approval of the law, also to honour the memory of their loved ones, with the hard work and with the valuable suggestions they have wanted to give us. There has always been a close and constructive confrontation, which has led to a result that I believe can be defined very, very important in this area, because with the deterrent effectiveness that will necessarily have to carry out this law will try to avoid everything that has happened in recent years. I would remind you that this year, too, we have already had a very large number of deaths from road accidents which are specifically and expressly punished by this bill, i.e. caused by people who are driving in a state of drunkenness. The time for laxity is over. These rules will certainly have to be widely disseminated and - as I said - everyone will have to work hard to allow for greater control and prevention. Surely this will not bring back to life any of the people who have been affected by such serious events, but it will certainly be a satisfaction to see that, thanks to the efforts of people who have dedicated their time to this purpose and to the legislative activity that we are carrying out, finally the people who have to be spotted with such serious crimes will be punished in an appropriate manner. The state, therefore, gives a serious response to the need for justice that I spoke about at the beginning of my speech. We hope to be able to carry out this work today, which - I repeat - has been extremely difficult, thus giving satisfaction to all those who have been interested in the subject. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u37	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, my request is that the measure be returned to the Commission. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Cucca, for the fact that, unfortunately, this is not the case, because with the text that we are about to approve the famous road pirates, the drunks and the drug addicts, who are hitting public opinion for their heinousness, will have less penalties than those currently in force. In fact, the 18-year limit is lower than the previous rules provided for precisely for the most striking cases of prairie and road murder, those affecting public opinion. Conversely - and I have tabled an amendment on this very subject - those who, without being drugged or drunk, may not respect a traffic light or proceed against the hand and cause a fatal road accident, are immediately arrested, even if they stop to provide assistance, even if they cooperate with the Forces of Order. We are, therefore, in the presence of a totally unbalanced measure, so I ask you to return to the Commission, at least to correct that part that is still correct, before the public realizes that we have adopted a rule that adds further injustices to a tragedy - that of an accident. I therefore call for the review of the measure to be suspended and for the text to be referred back to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u38	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, no more than one representative per group may speak in the debate on the suspensive issue for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u41	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, we are against this request for suspension, which we consider to be pretentious and unfounded. I remind all my colleagues that we are at the fifth reading of the measure, and this of the shuttle risks becoming a game that mocks the quality of parliamentary legislative work and parliamentary sovereignty. [[Senator Palma's comments.]] AIROLA (M5S). Parliamentary status? Please clean your mouth before talking! [[Comments from the PD Group]] LUMIA (PD). A game that mocks the duty that we have not to block parliamentary work, but to move forward and produce a decision. The unbecoming spectacle that comes before the issue of road murders - and, as it happens, Parliament can take note of the way in which it comes, with this coincidence of loving senses - says a lot about the need to go ahead and proceed along the path that the House has taken itself, which is a path of general discussion and evaluation of the amendments. We have once again assumed responsibility for preventing this game and for moving towards the adoption of this bill. It is an awaited measure that we owe to the many victims, but also to our dignity as parliamentarians. Are there any open issues? Let's get into it. Are there any amendments? They argue. But do not ask for a return to the Commission, which would mean the end of this measure. Not this one. The end of this bill never. That is why we are opposed to the request made and we are also opposed to the substance, because the statement made is presumptuous as there is a fairly true gradation of the penalties. [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] There is, if anything, also an unpublished penalty that faces in our penal code, to strike all those crimes of a manslaughter nature that produce murders and serious injuries on the streets. That is why that pretentious motivation for merit is without any foundation. The rapporteur explained well the gradation of the penalties and how the case evolved during the debate in both the House and the Senate. We have had the opportunity to explain well that Parliament must and can decide now. It is well aware of the issues and is therefore able to intervene and ensure that we can all write a positive page together. We cannot make promises to the associations and then parade the measure during parliamentary work. This game is not possible. It is irresponsible, not by people who are able to come to this House to say their own and to deal democratically with parliamentary work. That is why we are opposed, Mr President, and we call on the House to reject this measure, so that Parliament can finally, in the afternoon, dismiss this long-awaited and desired measure. We do not shy away from this responsibility: we reject the request made and we call for it to be rejected by this House because, beyond the game of majority and opposition, it is a duty of all the parliamentary groups and it is a duty of every single senator. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u42	We shall now proceed to the vote on the suspensive question put by Senator Giovanardi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u43	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u44	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 10.18 a.m. and resumed at 10.42 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u45	We shall now proceed to the vote on the suspensive question put by Senator Giovanardi. Verification of the MALAN quorum (FI-PdL XVII). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. I would also urge the secretary senators to ensure that there are no abandoned ballots. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u48	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, if there is a regulation, it must be applied and respected. You have just taken a vote and there are dozens of ballot papers, belonging to senators who may have forgotten them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So it is your job to cancel the previous vote and have those cards withdrawn! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In fact, Senator Santangelo, while the vote was taking place, I asked the Secretaries to observe the situation. SANTANGELO (M5S). But this is an incorrect practice, Mr President! Yet, you have appeared in all the newspapers to fill your mouth with this mischief. So, you have the laws in here applied immediately: have the cards pulled out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, this was about the quorum check. SANTANGELO (M5S). And then, from an administrative point of view, these colleagues are present even if they are absent. What does that mean? Please enforce the rules, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u51	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I think that if we are at the close interpretation of the words you said during the sitting in which the issue of the cards that we insert in the post was addressed, Senator Santangelo is totally right. If we stand by that compelling logic, Senator Santangelo, beyond the right, the left and our legitimate opinions, is right. The problem is that if it is not applied in accordance with rules which - in my opinion - must be outlined within the Bureau, it is simply inapplicable and makes the already cumbersome work of the Senate absolutely impossible to implement. So, Mr President, on the basis of what Senator Santangelo has said, I would ask you to consider these words because otherwise, with strict regulatory interpretation, Senator Santangelo is right and it will take half an hour to make every vote, because you have to go and check all the entries. In my opinion, this is a way of making our Senate's way of proceeding - excuse me - even more ridiculous and childish, will not guarantee the seriousness of the work and will make it impossible to move forward. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u52	Senator Casini, I'm sorry to contradict you, but it's ridiculous and childish that a senator with a personal card doesn't take you with him and leave you in his desk. This is ridiculous and childish. If the card is personal, it goes with the person. This must be applied and we try to push towards the culture of personal card, if possible. As this is not possible, we will now take drastic measures which will lead - yes - to a slowdown in work, but the slowdown will be caused by the lack of respect by the senators for discipline. The card is personal and even the duplicate card, which you leave here, should be a convenience for senators who may have forgotten it, while it has become a practice that everyone has a second card.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u55	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, you know that for me the President is always right, so I say this and then I say it and you are right, because I do not want to argue, but I just want to make a contribution: when in one day - it is not the case this morning - there are 50 or 60 votes, frankly I think it is compatible with a proper way of working that a senator leaves the card in and does not remember, every time he gets out of the place, to take it away. That's all I'm saying. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't think it's that hard to take your card with you. [[Comments from M5S, AP (NCD-UDC) and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] AIROLA (M5S). Bravo President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u56	I absolutely don't think these are the difficulties. All workers have a budget on which they enter and leave the workplace and I don't see why senators can't use their card in this way. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from AP Groups (NCD-UDC) and FI-PdL XVII]] We are not saying that the budget should be included at the entrance, which could also be a solution that can be adopted by the Bureau or by the Rules of Procedure. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u59	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I will be very brief. I only intervene for the use and consumption of the House's visibility. That's how it's done and gone. (Senator Petrocelli pulls the card out of the counter and goes down the stairs.) [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from AP Groups (NCD-UDC), FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u60	Thank you for the exemplification. Let us close the matter, because we have made it clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u61	I remember we were about to vote on a suspensive issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u64	TREMONTI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). To have a complete idea of the value, even semantic, of this conversation: do you call it badge or budget? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u65	I call it a badge. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). He said budget.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u66	If I made a mistake by saying budget, I accept the correction and make amends. There's a big difference between badge and budget, and I think I know her. Thank you for your cooperation. I put to the vote the suspensive question raised by Senator Giovanardi. It's not approved. Mr Ruvolo (AL-A). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course, there's no need for rehearsal. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Abstentions shall be valid as against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Exactly. We've seen the abstentions, and the secretary senators have confirmed that the senate doesn't approve.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third passage in the Senate of the draft law. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u68	Wait a minute, senator, it's useless to start talking when senators are on the move. There is a motion buzz, which will increase when the card is removed from its housing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u69	Whoever has to go out, do it quietly. Senator, you can resume your intervention. GINETTI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third passage in the Senate of a legal text that has committed the Commission to justice for many months, the result of reflections and a comparison not simple with the other branch of Parliament and the result of an important contribution of associations and professionals, who, in various ways, have spent themselves to introduce, in our legal system, rules on road murder that could, first of all, perform a function of deterrent and prevention towards a despicable but almost unstoppable phenomenon, such as that of innocent deaths on our roads. Moreover, prevention requires, even before a binding norm, a cultural change, capable of producing a higher level of safety, both for those who are at the wheel, and for those who are at the crossroads of other destinies. The text is amended by the Chamber of Deputies, for having eliminated the provision of arrest in flagrant crime for the driver who stops to provide assistance to those who have suffered injuries from the accident, in reference to Article 189, paragraph 8, of the Code of the road, while the other provisions remain confirmed. We come to the approval of this final text without having to hide, Mr President, the perplexities expressed by some senators in the insertion, in the context of the new case of road murder, of the hypotheses of violations identified in Article 1, such as high speed, crossing intersections with red or the reversal of maneuvering or overtaking in the vicinity of a pedestrian crossing, which, by equalizing these specific violations of the code of the road driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, risk not marking the clear distinction between those who commit murder for violation of the law and those who put themselves behind the wheel in an altered state, not having the full control of their cognitive and perception powers and abilities, assuming in itself that responsibility of will possible, in jeopardising, because of these conditions, the safety of innocent victims as well. There is no doubt, however, that today, after many years of expectation, we achieve an important result in delivering new instruments to our legal system to combat road murder. This is - as we have done better to express the family members of the victims of the road - not the search for a condemnation as compensation for a loss and pain that will never be filled, but to guarantee the right weight to behaviour that constitutes serious social disvalue, with penalties that can represent the weight of responsibility, for having harmed the most important of the rights: human life. 10:53 a.m. (Follow GINETTI). It is in fact a count to be updated every year and, if the number of accidents with injuries to people is decreasing compared to the previous year, on over 175,000 cases, what does not decrease, on the contrary, is the number of deaths on the asphalt, which was 3,400 in 2013, with an increase of 1 percent in the first six months of 2015, reaching well 1,596, of which more than half are young and very young, boys on the pedestrian stripes, on scooter or bike. It is a phenomenon very often, too often, linked to so-called road piracy, by people who drive under the influence of drugs and alcohol, even without a driver's license, and who then flee, failing to help. With this in mind, we have envisaged an increase in the sentence from one third to two thirds and, in any case, not less than five years. It is the injury of a good, such as personal safety, which is not only the right of every individual, but is public good - public security - because every dead boy is our son, of the entire community, who should have protected him and defended him. With this in mind, a key role can be played by the public administrations responsible, through adequate levels of investment in road maintenance, with clear and legible deterrent signs, with multiple police controls and speed detection systems. Road accidents are the first cause of death of our children and far too many admissions are recorded in the emergency room for ethyl coma and excesses related to the abuse of alcohol and drugs even by adolescents overwhelmed by social habits that are too little talked about. Before education in driving and road traffic rules, civic education is needed for self-respect and self-health; health education that could be re-introduced into school programmes and accompanied by public information campaigns, to reach young people before it is too late, because, as executioners or victims, we will lose them. Similarly, it will be necessary to review certain mechanisms for verifying the suitability for driving for those degenerative diseases or affecting the neurological and cognitive system in relation to the possibility of detection, for which a fundamental role could be played by the family doctor. Let us leave this task to the 8th Commission, as part of the work of updating the road code it is carrying out. In this perspective, we have provided for the tightening of penalties, not only in order to adequately repress such conduct in the most serious cases of injury or murder, but in order to build a deterrent and progressive discipline and to punish in a gradual manner the various violations, in order to discourage their recurrence. In particular, in this context the withdrawal of the driving licence can be a very high social cost, which can therefore lead to a more responsible behaviour in view of the loss of the possibility of returning the driving licence for significantly long periods: fifteen years, which can become thirty in case of escape or omission of rescue. It has certainly been considered that in fact it has failed the current prediction of road murder as manslaughter under Article 589, as amended in 2008, in case of driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol, which provides for a sentence of three to ten years imprisonment. It failed because it did not stop or slow down such cause of death and because the insurrected penalties have hardly led those responsible to prison because all too often, in the judgment of balancing or prevalence between aggravating and mitigating circumstances, the penalty imposed in concrete terms did not appear appropriate to the value of the loss of an innocent human life. Increasing the forecast from eight to twelve years, and in particular the minimum penalty, was the priority. This sentence may reach eighteen years in case more people die. If the offence is committed by a person without a driver's license or with a suspended or revoked licence, the penalties will be increased, as will the limitation periods. It will also be possible for the prosecutor to verbally authorise the co-active collection of biological samples. It is therefore expected that high penalties will be imposed, but that they will bring us back to the legal forecasts of other democracies: in France the basic penalty for road murder is ten years, in the United Kingdom it can reach fourteen years of imprisonment, while in the United States the penalty is up to thirty years. We intend to adopt the same severity to express social disapproval, with dissuasive penalties to try to defend our boys, with the deterrent ability of sanctions that can help to create a culture of greater rigour and safety in the pipelines behind the wheel. This is a strong signal from politics in giving a concrete response to battles and expectations that they have been demanding for too long to be heard. The proposal to introduce into our system a new and autonomous case of road murder, after months of discussion and parliamentary passages, today becomes law. Our hope, Mr President, is that the legislator together with the magistrates and, above all, a widespread civic culture will act together to stop a massacre (and not only on Saturday evening) of victims too often young; those young people who, on the contrary, must continue to consider the road as a reliable travel companion for a common pact of coexistence. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u71	Mr President, I have a serious doubt as to how to modulate the intervention, because there are more and more insistent voices coming that the government will ultimately put its trust in this measure. It is clear that this means preventing a debate. I have written word for word - and then I will ask for comfort from the shorthand report - what Senator Lumia has just declared: There are the amendments: they are discussed. That's three, let's talk about it. Last week we saw the PD impose, with various excuses, confidence because there were hundreds of amendments and it was prevented from talking about the substance. In this case, there are three amendments and you want to put your trust in them. At this point I am really asking what is the point of submitting a bill to the Parliamentary Assembly! [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] 11:01 a.m. (Candians follow). Let us proceed directly with a decree of a lieutenant type; decide directly the dictator what we must or should not do and end there, because this is what we are coming to. Some senator is right to say that "finally" we come to the approval of this provision: it is the fifth reading, and from what world is the majority in here must guarantee who supports the Government. If the provision is changed, in one and the other House, it is because in the majority there are clear divisions on a text that, as it has been presented, has appeared incongruent and even, in some cases, harmful to unsolved issues and especially to the real inconsistencies it presents. At first we started with emotional aspects neglecting profiles that instead are of merit, getting to punish more those in a manslaughter condition than those who are instead in a dollous condition. After so much time and so much meditation on the part of the Government - and I address the Undersecretary and the Minister - we would have expected interventions in support of culture, especially of the youngest, on how to be on the streets, otherwise we are always at the same rhetoric: "We have tightened the penalties!" Then we find ourselves with the criminal who flees after committing a crime in a stolen car, who overwhelms an innocent poor man and who is released the next day. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]] And this certainly is not because the magistrate has gone crazy (in some cases it may be), but because a code and rules make it possible, on the part of those who have the defense of that criminal, to open holes of credibility of the system. The matter is very simple and must be resolved in these terms: if you are a criminal who flees after a robbery and overwhelms a person, you must go to jail. The real risk is that we will find ourselves for the umpteenth time with the criminal around, while the poor Christ, who for fate and fatality found himself involved in an accident, maybe takes his life for the displeasure of what he caused without wanting to cause harm. Mr President, unfortunately, we have become accustomed to understanding that the Government is acting more in favour of cameras than of the usefulness of rules and laws for citizens. And I'll say it again. Otherwise, we would have seen policies committed to educating, starting with the youngest, on how you are driving and on the streets. Today this only action is left in the hands of the municipalities, without resources. Put the government at the disposal of local authorities schools and resources and start from the youngest to have a serious street education! It is useless for Minister Boschi to come and put pressure on us, as happened last time in December last year, so that the process of the measure is quickly closed, so that we can then go to some conference and say that his Government has done what others have not been able to do. I repeat that we are in the fifth parliamentary passage, because five times you in the majority have made changes and again you do not have the capacity to make a measure that is of common sense, but that needs consistency and consistency. There are also issues that must not be overlooked, that are emerging and will emerge, related to the insurance costs and the responsibilities that insurance companies will discharge under this law, leaving most likely the victims uncovered compared to insurance cover that should instead be guaranteed. We need strictness, but we also need seriousness, which we still do not see in the management of this measure. I repeat, Mr President, and I end here my speech, not wanting to use all the time at my disposal because, if the question of trust is raised, it will be the umpteenth time in which the parliamentary debate will be sold out for the sole interest of the Government to accredit itself with a determination that in its content does not correspond to the real interests of the country. We must be serious, not just in favour of the cameras, as unfortunately we have become accustomed to seeing from President Renzi and his ministers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u72	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are here today, for the third time, examining the draft law on road murder. We do so with guilty delay with respect to all the other countries of Europe and also with respect to what, modestly, had been my legislative proposal that now bears the date almost three years ago. The delay is even more guilty if we consider that we are talking about an issue which concerns all citizens who have long been demanding that irresponsible behaviors, which cause pain and death, be severely punished. I believe deeply in this instance of social condemnation that comes from the population, certainly not out of revenge, that I, deeply believer, do not conceive, but because of a sense of deep justice, because those who drive in a state of drunkenness or under the influence of drugs, those who carry out serious irresponsible behaviors (excess of speed, passage with the red light, driving against the hand and others) and because of this causes serious accidents it is right that it be treated like a criminal. Those who have no respect for the safety and life of others must be put in a position to no longer harm and learn from their mistakes. But, above all, the victims have that sacred right to justice that has been denied them too many times in recent years. How many episodes have we had to read in the newspapers or watch on television, in which a drunk or drug addicted driver caused dramatic consequences, perhaps without even stopping to help the victims, and after a short time he was out of prison or, in some cases, it didn't even have anything to do with it? I believe that this law also has an important educational function. It must teach young people that driving must be a responsible act, that driving a scooter or car cannot be considered a game. We must tell our children that the rules must be respected, that driving caution (and not only) is something to boast about and not be ashamed of, that the lives of others are also in their hands. The basic concept of this bill is deeply acceptable. It introduces - as you well know - traffic homicide and personal road injuries, providing for an appropriate sanctioning regime. Above all, I believe, it finally introduces the concept that those who, conscious of their own state or of their own dangerous and written driving behaviour, cause serious and very serious accidents, must suffer more serious consequences than those who are involved in an accident because of pure fatality. I was saying at first we're late. We are also so because, for some years now, judges have often overcome the crime of a mere manslaughter for those who, in the presence of particular conditions, such as the state of drunkenness or the alteration of drugs, have nevertheless put themselves at the wheel of a vehicle and have agreed to endanger the supreme good of their lives and, above all, of the life of others. This bill, therefore, does nothing but transpose not only the right feeling of citizens, but also what seems to be the tendential orientation of the judiciary. If we are back in this House, it is because the House of Members has for once intended to protect a resounding error contained in the text: I am referring to the provision of the obligation of arrest for those who, guilty of injury in the event of an accident, stopped to give aid and made themselves available to the authority. But I wonder how it is possible for you to arrest a citizen who, albeit guilty, does everything possible to remedy what he has caused and accepts the consequences. This error represented an explicit incitement to escape after causing an accident and, fortunately, was removed with the approval of an amendment. I want to make another thought. For years we have been witnessing a virtuous process of reducing the number of accidents and deaths on the roads, started with a measure by the Berlusconi Government of 2003: I am referring to the introduction of the so-called point driving licence. Since then we have seen a clear decrease in the number of road accident victims: the number of deaths on our roads has dropped from 7,000 in 2001 to 3,400 in 2014 and the number of injuries has also decreased, from 370,000 in 2001 to just over 250,000 in 2014. This is a great result: thousands of lives saved and accidents avoided. However, this is still not enough, because the road mortality rate (i.e. that standard European parameter measuring road mortality, calculating the number of deaths per million inhabitants) still sees us at the bottom of the ranking: in 2014 Italy recorded a figure of 55.6 per cent, above both the European average (equivalent to 51%), and the data recorded, among others, in the United Kingdom (28 per cent), Spain (35 per cent), Germany (41 per cent) and France (51 per cent). I am deeply convinced that, with the final approval - I hope - of this measure that we are about to vote on, we will be able to take another important step to make our roads safer and safer, bringing a sure benefit to our economy (the episodes of road accidents produce, in fact, costs for about 2.6% of the Italian gross domestic product) and, above all, increasing the safety of all of us and the perception of a just and fair state. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u74	Mr President, this measure, which has reached its third reading by this House, once again highlights the confusion that exists in the majority, which is incapable of producing clear, clear and effective rules. This is yet another circumstance in which we are faced with an opaque measure which, on the one hand, does not respond to the demand for justice posed by citizens and, in particular, by the associations of the victims of the road, and, on the other hand, provides for disproportionate penalties that affect even those who incur mere error. There is no balance and proportion and, above all, there is no response to the expectations of the families of the many victims. It may be true that the number of road deaths has decreased, but the data of the last few months show - alas - a reversal of the trend. The peak peak peaked in July last year, especially in the night time slot. The data collected by Police and Carabinieri shows that among the main causes is the use of mobile phones while driving, for the compilation of text messages, e-mails and even selfies. New habits and modern technology have increased the number of accidents; it is the price that contemporaries pay for the digital revolution. According to the journal "Modern Police", in the first seven months of the year there were 972 victims, compared to 952 in 2014, and fatal accidents went from 879 in 2014 to 897 in 2015. In this bill, to an absolutely complex and confused prediction that concerns the penalties for those who commit road murder in a state of clear psychophysical alteration, which establishes automations linked to a series of parameters of not easy and immediate verification, is associated an incomprehensible penalty of those who, fully sober, incurs in always possible errors. In the indications of penalties, for example, Article 589-bis provides for five to ten years of imprisonment for the driver of a motor vehicle which, crossing an intersection with the traffic light placed at the red or circulating counterhand, causes the death of a person or the driver of a motor vehicle which, following a maneuver of reversal of the direction of travel near or at intersections, curves or bumps or following overtaking of other means at a pedestrian crossing or continuous line, causes the death of a person by fault. In each of these cases, which exclude the state of psychophysical alteration due to the consumption of alcohol or drugs, it is assumed that the violation is due to serious fault and therefore it is effectively equated to driving in an altered state. It is certainly correct to impose the right penalty when one is in the presence of facts that produce death or serious injury, but - I repeat - lacks the necessary balance. Overcoming a continuous strip to surpass an excessively slow medium or taking a wrong way, because perhaps the signs have been changed and you have not had the chance to notice, if it produces serious accidents it is definitely behavior to sanction, but not with jail. The absence of conscious distraction in the present text represents a serious gap, which should be filled as soon as possible, because it further aggravates the traditional reference framework for the occurrence of accidents which, until recently, saw alcohol abuse and the use of drugs among the first causes. We therefore felt it more appropriate than ever to introduce a new crime into the penal code, namely road murder, with increased penalties, which obviously concerns not only mortality, but also serious damage to people, with the application of the crime of road injuries. We also felt it was appropriate to provide for the automatic withdrawal until the life of the licence, not only in the event of a conviction, but also in the event of a pleasing plea, and so also the provision of heavy aggravating agents in the presence of infringements of the dangerous road code itself, such as speeding or non-compliance with the stop or other reckless manoeuvres, with the emphasis that such infringements must be severely combated with zero tolerance, even regardless of the accident. Here we should open the chapter of the very serious level of degeneration of the current car discipline of all of us drivers, since virtuous behaviors are increasingly rare and destined to drown in the magnum sea of generalized discretion. The fundamental problem lies precisely in the tightening up of infringements, in the ability to exercise real control and in the timely application of sanctions, on the example of other nations where respect for human life (own and others) is the lighthouse that inspires the whole system of control, prevention and punishment of road traffic. This consideration calls into question the police forces, frankly insufficient to guarantee presence and controls on the dense Italian road network, from the highway, to the arteries of municipal and urban connection. More controls, more prevention, more sanctions, fewer accidents, fewer casualties, less injuries, fewer deaths, more lives saved, more serene families, more economic development and more intelligence and skills at the service of the progress of local communities and the country. If we look for a moment at the World Health Organisation's estimates that road accidents will be the first cause of death in 2020, it is clear that there is a need for more monitoring and for a comprehensive cultural awareness-raising exercise, starting from the early years of the school journey. The law alone is not enough: it must be applied and it is important to build a new culture of respect for the person and life around the norm. It is on this ground that we will be able to recover the effectiveness of the new technologies, their potential to make themselves useful to humanity. With information and communication technology, we will be able to have a continuous and fruitful dialogue between everyday life and technology, between the complex learning system, families and educational agencies. Not having focused sufficiently on these aspects of the vexed question, on road murder as the terminal of an involutionary social process, of legislation that pursues and does not prevent, represents the anthropological limit of this majority, daughter probably of the times and a contemporary always in search of justifications and rewards, hic et nunc, without horizons and without prophetic visions. The prophets are missing in this society and the oblique and liquid laws are the consequence. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u75	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u76	Mr President, it is likely that we also need a few voices outside the choir to balance and to get to the point of the seriousness of this measure. If we read it well, carefully, we have to come to the conclusion that it is a bad law, distorted, dictated by emotion that today would not be justified and that probably serves to appease the anger for some specific case, that it would really deserve exemplary penalties. However, in this spirit of revenge and justiceism towards actually heinous cases, we put millions and millions of ordinary drivers at risk, people who earn their lives by driving heavy goods vehicles or motor vehicles. Did you need this law? First question. Answer, maybe very personal: absolutely not. Why not? Because manslaughter is already provided for in our code; it is true, with quite mild penalties (from six months to five years), but it is provided in our code that murder can always be manslaughter following violations of the rules of the road code or - the case is identical - for accidents at work contrary to the legislation on accidents, already providing for penalties from two to seven years. If there is a violation of road rules as a result of drunk driving, the existing legislation already provides for penalties from three to ten years. Was it necessary, then, for this law to tighten the pain? No, because we have always seen that the tightening of penalties in itself has no relevance to the deterrent to the commission of any kind of crime. We foresee, apart from some cases, the basic rule that punishes road murder with penalties from five to ten years. Allow me to make some comparisons with similar penalties from five to ten years. Those who commit a manslaughter road undoubtedly do not circulate with the intention of going to stretch out some people. Conversely, those who carry out a robbery know that it is a deliberate act, because the robbery, besides being a subtraction of goods that do not belong to you, is exercised with threat and violence. We have seen some case studies of acts (people entering the house, disfigures people, leaves them dying, takes away everything there is to take away) so the subjects risk only three to ten years. I repeat, for the traffic homicide there are penalties from five to ten; for the robbery, wanted, wanted, heinous, penis from three to ten years. Let's take the case of private violence (it takes a little bit of everything): what risks those who deliberately go against a person with violence until they die (and stop there otherwise it would be murder)? He's only at risk of up to four years. Let us go ahead and consider, for the feminist aspect it represents, sexual violence, that is, rape. Well, in the event of an assault that ends with violence against a woman on the way to rape, the penalty would be exactly the same, that is, five to ten years. Can we think that the citizen who stumbles in this case, in violation of some of the rules of the road code, risks more than those who deliberately carry out actions certainly violent, certainly reprehensible, that at this point our penal code considers almost less than the careless guide on the streets? Let's go in a little bit more detail. You risk a sentence of five to ten years if a fatal accident occurs when a person circulates against a hand. What do you mean, a counterhand? Probably at the base there can be distraction, carelessness in driving, in itself reprehensible, but, gentlemen, there can also be a lack of billboards that induces a non-local person not to understand well where he is going and unintentionally to take a counterhand path. Then I think about my colleagues from the Po Valley. You know that normally in the Po Valley at certain times of the year fog drops. Well, those who try to drive in the fog know what it means to drive with reduced visibility, sometimes a few meters away. It can happen to take a counterhand road and the accident can happen. Gentlemen, do we ruin the life of the person who, trying to juggle in the fog, takes a road against the hand and considers it worse than a rapist, a robber, a person who almost kills another? [[Applause from Senator Council.]] I think we're really on an aberrant path. But let's see more. There is uncertainty about committing a crime. I come to the third paragraph of Article 1, which refers to a fatal accident following a reversal manoeuvre near an intersection, a curve or a bump. What does "nearby" mean? We leave at this point to agents, surveyors or magistrates the power to determine whether the proximity is 20, 50 or 200 meters. First of all, a driver can see - as we all can - that he has made a mistake; the first thing he does is stop, look around and try to get back on the right track. It does exactly what the current legislation says: a reversal manoeuvre. He may not even notice he's near an intersection or a bump. Can we condemn, from five to ten years, a person who has certainly committed something wrong and irregular for the code of the road, but in a completely blameless way, for which he should surely trigger good faith? I only point out the inconsistency of this rule. At this point he may be sentenced, with the penalties reduced to half (from two years and six months to five years), who causes a fatal accident, but who is not a direct consequence of his action. Let's try to give life to this paragraph: it is the case of a driver who travels on a track and on the other side something happens (a tamponade or a shock) that projects a cyclist or a biker on his side. He who is driving suddenly finds himself in front of him and hits him, probably causing his death. The driver who hit him might have moved on quietly, even if at a speed of more than 70 kilometers per hour. Sometimes I see some road signs and I wonder if they are made for bicycles, those that impose speed limits of 20 or 30 kilometers per hour; I don't know who can respect them, maybe only those who cycle. And who maybe doubles that limit, going 60 kilometers per hour and running into something that happens on the other side of the road, is facing an accident risking up to five years in prison. I am shocked to see how lightly these so wrong rules are approved that establish a case where the penalty does not depend on the responsibility of the person and with the uncertainty that derives from the need to define the concept of "proximity" (which we do not even know who will define, for which it is an indefinable crime). Here, in my opinion, there is the fear of passing for those who do not want to guarantee the safety of citizens. In this House, I believe that there is not one person who does not want to guarantee security to the citizens. For this fear we are carrying out a bill, which we are also discussing on board the House and in the corridors, and everyone here says it is nonsense; but if it is nonsense, would we be able to say that it is nonsense in this House too? No, since everything in this House is recorded and public, then we have to be executed. We must respond to logics that are not what they are, but do not belong to me at this point, even if my Group (someone then will speak in an explanation of vote) will adapt to it, so as not to pass, precisely, for those who do not want to guarantee security. Perhaps we will have to adapt, but these things must certainly be said. Also because, Mr President, let us remember that if we approve this text exactly as it is written, from tomorrow every driver (and many of us, among many things, drive cars) already potentially has a foot in prison. I don't think that's right. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Liuzzi and D'Ambrosio Lettieri]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u77	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u78	I take advantage of your presidency, Senator Gasparri, to remind you, first of all, of the great battles we have fought on road safety. And I am pleased that on the other side of the Chamber, too, the left has an awareness of the tragedy of road accidents. I remember, however, when I was Minister and we were beaten in the House for a vote - because under the dictatorship of the economic interests of discotheques - also on the measures that we would then want to take against alcohol and drugs, in order to secure the phenomenon that cost Italy nearly 8,000 young people dead (it was the years in which the massacres of Saturday evening reaped victims). And we were beaten because every limit we wanted to place and every measure was challenged. It is no coincidence - and I say this to the families of the victims today - that, while it is adopted, perhaps with confidence, this horrible text (and I will say why it is horrible), the political part itself proposes the liberalisation of drugs. So instead of tackling one of the fundamental causes of road accidents and mortality, which is drugs - and we know that - we think of legalizing it. But if from 8,000 deaths we have fallen to 3,000, then we claim the honor of having passed laws such as the point-to-point driver's license, of having developed strategies such as the "Drugs on street," with night checks on alcohol and drugs, such as the immediate withdrawal of the license and all the measures put in place to mitigate this phenomenon. And we did it here in the Senate, my fellow senators. We voted on the amendments, 90%, which removed from this bill not drugs, not alcohol, not street pirates (it is right that they pay, but here they pay little). Then the House introduced, and the Government imposed us with confidence, the prison for the mother of the family, for the boy, for those who accompany the children to school, introducing a principle according to which we go from five to ten years in prison, up to eighteen years in prison, without malice and without guilt. And then I'm going to ask the question I asked last time. If my wife when she accompanies her grandchildren to school or to my son when she goes to work, what happens to everyone, even if she tries to be as careful as possible, why must she stay in jail for eighteen years? What's jail for 18 years? If we want to work on compensation for the families of the victims, it is absolutely right, on education, on prevention. I have tabled an amendment, the only one I can table. Do you know that, according to this law, if, because of the fog, someone does not realize that on the other side of the road a motorcyclist arrives, even if he stops to help him, assists and collaborates with the judicial authority is immediately arrested? And why is he arrested if he's not drunk, he's not drugged, he's not insane, and he's not a street pirate? Street pirates and drug addicts are favorites. It is true that the maximum sentence is up to eighteen years, and Mr Cucca corrected me by pointing out that the maximum penalty before was at fifteen years and now is at eighteen. The range, however, between the eighteen years to which a person who commits a traffic violation can be condemned, and who is thus assimilated to the drug addict and drunk who carries out a massacre, is madness. Also because the drunken and drug addict can take even more than eighteen years. And let's not talk about the possibility that he's relapsed, that he's already had road accidents or that he's caused injuries before. But how can one marry this perverse logic whereby, in the same law, who somehow violates some rule of the street code has a certain penalty (if he passes to the traffic light with the red, if he goes counterhand, if he does inversion of march, he can have a penalty from five to ten years, up to a maximum of eighteen) and, if he is drunk or drugged, instead, in some way the penalty is mitigated, in how much it is equal to that of a few million people? I read to you what Senator Lumia said an hour ago, which I esteem, to defend the law. He says: Being opposed to this law on merit is a pretentious thing, because there is in the law a quite true gradation of punishments; a quite true gradation. We have put this problem to the government in the Commission and we have been told that the law is wrong and has inconsistencies, but it must make a manifesto and show that it has approved a law that is a warning. But I did not know that the laws, Mr President, are being made, not to deal with phenomena with justice and fairness, but to give a signal to the public. But there are victims of these signs here. So, in my experience, in cooperation with friends of the road police and trying to mitigate these phenomena, it is that usually in a road accident, removed the addicts, the drunks and the pirates of the road, there are two victims: one is who gets injured or loses his life in a road accident and the other is the normal citizen, who, with all the prudence of the world, can happen an accident that ruins his life because, however, he will always have the guilt for hitting another person, because he will have to rightly compensate for the damage and will be faced with some situations. I still remember being particularly impressed by the incident of a boy who hanged himself two days after the second fatal road accident. He took his own life. I can understand the drama of a boy who's twice experienced such a traumatic fact that he wonders if he kills people. He thinks two people lost their lives because of him, so he kills himself. So, I know very well that every time there is a car accident, on the one hand there is the family of those who caused the accident - maybe it's an 18-year-old boy and his dad, mom, brothers, uncles and relatives say he's unlucky, he doesn't have to stay in jail one day and he has to be understood - and on the other there's the family of the victim who says that life is to be given to those who committed the crime. I understand very well the view of the victim's family, who suffer trauma, and that of the family members of the person who caused the accident, around whom they square. What should the law do? Find a contemperation and a feeling of justice that grade the penalties according to the responsibilities. We had done it: the Senate - I repeat - had voted, after an afternoon debate, the amendments of the PD and not my own who rightly meant for street murder what all Italians think is such, the one committed by the drug addict, the drunk and the street pirate. If this law passes, it will not affect those who have criminal behavior. Every morning 18 million people become potential killers and the driver is saved. To those who can afford to be accompanied by a driver this law does not create any difficulty because, if an accident happens, the driver pays. However, normal people - those who take the car every morning to go to work, to accompany children to school or to carry out various professional activities - will have this sword of Damocles over their heads. And then the feeling of justice is with draconian pains - said Divine colleague - superior to those for rape or robbery? We know the concept of self-righteousness. Of course, it takes guilt here, but the law says you're already guilty on principle if you go through the red light. It is absolutely right that the drunk passing through the red light has an exemplary penalty, but if one does not see the traffic light because he has the sun in his eyes and passes he must do eighteen years in prison? How can one avoid this danger with all caution? Can anyone swear that in his driving life today and in the future something like this can never happen to him? If he swears, he swears falsely, because he doesn't. We all know that at the very moment we get into the car, an accident can happen. This is yet another law that this Government imposes on Parliament not to solve a problem, not to deal fairly with the tragedy of road accidents, but to make a manifesto and show that it does something. Given that I hope that the number of accidents will decrease, in every accident that will happen will create an injustice and a bad result for all Italians and also for the family members of the victims. With the first case of a normal person who will jam into this infernal circuit all the Italian press and public opinion will be outraged by what has been done. They'll ask us, who did you want to hit? You didn't want to hit the criminals, the drunks, the drug addicts, and those who put others' lives at risk? Now you put the mother of the family or the boy who made a mistake in driving for years? For this reason, Mr President, we hope that these amendments can be adopted, which will at least pass the principle that whoever caused a fatal accident - I repeat: not being drugged or drunk - and stops to assist the victim and help the judicial authority is not arrested. On the other hand, according to the text sent to us by the Chamber of Deputies, that woman or that man or boy who stops will be arrested immediately. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u79	We greet the teachers and students of the Ettore Majorana - Sabin Istituto professionale in Giarre, in the Province of Catania, whom we greet and thank for their visit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u80	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are concluding our difficult journey towards the adoption of one of the most sensitive legislative measures of the entire legislature. I say this by thinking of the more than 3,000 people who lose their lives every year on our roads because of road accidents. This number represents the frightening fact, which led us to this bill: an even more terrifying number when compared with another statistic, that of the voluntary murders, caused by a gun or by cutting, which are just 600 or more. What and how many reflections should stimulate this data? The first, the most immediate, is that behind these 3,000 road accident victims, there are as many families who are lost, affections that are broken, stories that are interrupted. In addition to these thousands of deaths, we count hundreds, indeed thousands of wounded, many of whom are seriously and permanently invalidated. Many of these 3,000 and more missing persons, torn from life in a single instant, are, mostly, innocent and unconscious victims, unexpectedly removed from their existence, perhaps by an unsuspecting, distracted, tired motorist or, even worse, unable to drive a vehicle, because under the influence of drugs or alcohol. They are 3,000 victims and 3,000 injustices: a massacre, against which no one in this House can remain unarmed or remain silent. The silence has been broken by other European countries - and not only - where, in many places, the road network is much safer than ours and in which similar rules have been introduced, for structures and purposes, to those we are considering today and - I hope - ultimately approved. In the United States, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, the murder committed in the driving of a vehicle constitutes a distinct and disciplined type of crime, which occurs when a driver drives dangerously, with a precise configuration of the conduct considered dangerous and therefore worthy of the harshest penalty. What we are about to vote on are complex measures in their application, but necessary and urgent, whose aims are absolutely acceptable and have required a long mediation, some renunciation and synthesis between different positions. The evolution of society does not allow us to remain anchored to distant norms, which are no longer adequate for our reality: they must instead punish the improper and inadequate use of means of transport which, over the years, due to unfair behaviour, has caused real massacres, which have often been the victims of young people and, at times, whole families. Road accidents are a major social problem: numbers must make us think. According to some statistics, in Italy, in the first six months of 2015, there were 85,000 road accidents with injuries to people, 1,596 deaths and 119,000 injuries, with a 1% increase in deaths compared to the same period of the previous year. These data require the introduction of deterrent tools that discourage those who think they can drive after taking alcoholic substances or drugs on urban and extra-urban roads. Irresponsible conduct must be subject to severe sanctions. We cannot and must not derogate from this principle. With the difficult work of these months, Chamber and Senate, with their respective committees involved, have tried to arrive at a text that was the result of the collaboration of all the parliamentary forces, precisely for the unquestionable social purposes it pursues. It was not possible to achieve this result, to share widely, but certainly no one in this House disputes its purpose or necessity and urgency. The measure approved by the Senate in the third reading last December 10 and then modified by the House in a single point, which can be shared, introduces in the penal code the crimes of street murder and personal road injuries and both the offences are punished as guilt. What I would like to stress and recall today are the reasons that led us to discuss the introduction of road murder into our legal system. The law inserts in the Italian penal code the crime of street murder, through which it is punished, for guilt and with the imprisonment of different entities because of the degree of the fault itself, the driver of motor vehicles whose imprudent conduct constitutes cause of a fatal event and does so with a particular and severe censorship of the driving in state of drunkenness, especially if it is voluntary drunkenness. He does so with the introduction of Article 589- bis of the penal code and with the preliminary statement that drunkenness does not exclude, or diminish, the ability to understand and want. The subjective element of the moment when drunkenness is caused to the commission of the crime is transferred. It is a highly critical code of conduct, which has provoked a series of discussions in the criminal world, but it is a demonstration of a traditional harshness of the legislative treatment against drunkenness and the state of alteration resulting from the consumption of drugs, which I feel I fully share. We must understand that the solution to the problems I was talking about is prevention, that is, a system of security for citizens who pass through a social and collective control over which, in the name of controversial ideals, too many steps have been taken back in the past for not better clear and worthy reasons. Choices to be revised, in short, in order to instill in society a real and concrete culture of prevention, control and, at the same time, the repression and social repulsion of certain sensible and deplorable conducts, such as that of those who start driving a car, not being present to themselves. It is clear that a simple regulatory intervention, although targeted and detailed, cannot alone constitute a definitive and comprehensive solution. There is the need, in other words, to associate this sanctioning activity and this collective control with equally widespread control and control of the territory - one does not exclude the other - and this for a very simple reason intrinsic to the same type of manslaughter crime, which, however obvious, implies a non-volunteerity of the crime and, therefore, absence of a voluntary disobedience of the deed. Imperice, imprudence, negligence are all categories that make the person responsible a subject not fully aware of the disastrous consequences of his conduct; that is, they make him a subject not entirely inclined to respond positively to what is merely a preventive activity. What the legal text goes for is the immediate preparatory phase to the commission of the crime, namely the voluntary use of narcotics or psychotropic substances and alcoholic beverages. Their assumption is undoubtedly characterized by an element of voluntaryness, discretion, decision-making of the future guilty, which the order rightly goes to censor with harshness or in any case with greater hardness than in the past. The intake of alcohol or drugs combined with the subsequent driving of the person already determines a situation of serious danger in itself, which deserves an adequate sanction from the legal system. The point is that with this measure the legislator has intended to give a different meaning to the guilt, triggering on it a model that stands between the serious fault and the eventual dole: a probability fault, if we can define it, that stains the conduct of that individual who, well aware of the probability and concrete possibility that from his altered conduct can determine serious and irreparable consequences, perpetrates that behavior anyway. In the Anglo-Saxon system a similar form of fault is what we could call recklessness, a censorable, intolerable and unsustainable level. The individual who kills or seriously harms another person because he has put himself in a drunken state knows well, even if he does not want to kill or harm the other person, who can do so, and can do so, albeit unintentionally, because in a reckless way he chose to drink, drug and then drive a vehicle. In this complex series of conduct, the seriousness of the guilt of road murder and serious injuries is realized, and it is from this gravity that, according to the legislator, the entry into force of this law will result in more serious sanctioning and procedural consequences. Let it be clear, the assessment of whether or not the author is guilty must always be careful and rigorous. We must not take the opposite risk, that of condemning, regardless of a serious and careful assessment of the existence of all the necessary elements in order to be able to arrange an assessment of full guilt. It is precisely on these aspects that I believe that the legislator, through the work carried out by the Justice Commissions of the House and the Senate, has achieved, with the text we are discussing today as a whole, a fair balance, which I believe has been achieved not only in the first part of the text, but also in the part dedicated to the unconscious and risky driving on urban circuits or with reckless maneuvers. I do not hide that this is the point of greatest doubt and contrast: to have extended the heavy criminal sanctions provided for the traffic homicide consumed in a state of drunkenness or of alteration for the consumption of psychotropic substances also to the pipes "azzardate and unconscious" as the speed greater than twice that allowed, the crossing of the intersection with the red traffic light, the reversal of march in curve or the overtaking near the pedestrian strips, where similar conducts cause the death of a person. Why would you expect such harsh penalties (from five to ten years) to those who killed by driving a car but without wanting to do so, that is because of your fault? Because there are conducts that for their recklessness must be indicated to the public as more serious, more dangerous and therefore more deserving of criminal sanctions, if they determine the death of a person or his disability. On the occasion of the previous vote, I set myself an entire day of driving attentive to strict compliance with every rule of the road code and signage, including the inconsistent speed limits of our roads and despite the sometimes bad state of the same. It has not been easy to impose such self-control in a society that invites "speed" in every field. 12 p.m. (Filippin followed). Yet I realized that driving a vehicle must be done with a higher degree of awareness, attention and prudence than any other human action. And if you lack this duty of superior control, even if your name is Rosanna Filippin and you are a senator of the Republic you must be properly punished. The increases in penalties for those who commit the crime for driving without a driver's license or driving a vehicle without insurance cover are widely accepted. In addition, the content of Article 4, which, when amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, inserts the crime of road murder and serious road injuries among those offences for which the judge, even of his own motion, may order the co-active execution of the collection of biological samples by means of a reasoned order. It is also important to have provided that the prosecutor, when carrying out investigations, descriptive findings or any other technical operation in connection with murders and road injuries, should have recourse to experts in the reconstruction of road accidents registered on the register of engineers or industrial experts. The regulatory intervention also allows for the compulsory levy to be provided by the public prosecutor. In fact, when the driver refuses to undergo investigations of the state of alcoholic drink or of alteration related to the use of narcotic or psychotropic substances and in all urgent cases where there is a danger that the delay may result in serious and irreparable prejudices to the investigations, the prosecutor may arrange for the co-active collection of samples by reasoned decree, giving timely notice to the defender of the person concerned. It also included the regulatory provision for compulsory arrest in flagrant crime for murder and optional for injuries: a round of lives in extreme synthesis, which is undoubtedly a first step, a compromise between several positions, a signal, a hint of reaction that cannot be exhausted in this matter but must go even further. I am referring to the need for us all to put the issue of road safety at the heart of national policy, a debate which is all too often relegated to the margins of the country's political agenda and which, on the other hand, the facts and the numbers of the premise of my speech should bully me. Let us take a step forward, in other words, but a step that must be the beginning of a journey and of a path at three hundred sixty degrees; a path that is able to give politics the role of actor who acts in the direction of limiting and, if possible, completely reset the dramatic effects of the tragedies that are consumed daily on our roads. The right direction has been taken, and that is why I would like to see as much consensus as possible on the rules which, as a whole, we will finally adopt. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, we salute Lama Thubten Wangchen, representative of the Tibet House in Barcelona, who is present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u84	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, thank you for your sensitivity. I would like to remind the House that today marks the 5th anniversary of the assassination of Shahbaz Bhatti, killed by fundamentalists on 2 March 2011 in Islamabad. He was the first and only federal minister for religious minorities in Pakistan and was assassinated because of his commitment to non-Muslims and above all to prevent the abuse of anti-blasphemy law through a revision of the rule. The Italian Parliament and the democrats in our country want to remember this man today, a symbol of the battle for full citizenship of religious minorities in Pakistan. Bhatti was a charismatic man, who was able to give them a voice, guaranteeing the right dignity and the possibility to contribute to the growth of the country. Today, five years after Bhatti's disappearance, religious minorities still call for the restoration of a dedicated federal ministry to them, such as the one he led, through which the rights of non-Muslims of Pakistan can be fully assured. This remembrance of Bhatti is part of a wider assessment of our Parliament's attention to all those - Christians and non-Christians - who, persecuted in the world because of their religious faith, must find the attention of the Western world and of a country with Christian identities and roots such as Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u85	Thank you, President Casini. The Presidency joins his words.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u86	Mr President, we are in the fifth parliamentary passage of the controversial draft law on road murder because - I say thank you - the amendment made by secret ballot by the House of Deputies to Article 1 (6). This is an absolutely appropriate amendment, as Article 189 (8) of the Road Code is rewritten, which the text approved by the Senate intended to repeal. The new wording of the text of the bill excludes the possibility of arrest in flagrant crime in the event that the driver stops and assists those who have suffered damage, making himself available to the judicial authorities, if the accident results in the crime of personal injury, thus excluding the case of the murder. The first-signed amendment by Mr Sisto, approved by the House of Members, must therefore be considered of common sense as it remedys the serious inconsistencies in the text. The person causing an accident was practically encouraged to escape from the previous rule approved by the Senate, which provided for mandatory arrest: providing assistance meant in fact being arrested, while fleeing meant avoiding arrest in flagrant crime. It was a sort of authorized safe conduct for street pirates: more than an incongruity, a legislative madness. It is enough to make a case of school to understand that there is no logic in opposing Mr Sisto's amendment. If there is a person injured on the street because of me, stopping me I can prevent him from losing his life, but I risk being arrested while running away from arrest, but increasing the chances of the victim losing his life. The need to guarantee those who stop to help those who are injured is therefore a humanitarian law, protected by international laws, which risked being strongly denied by the text approved by this House after the third examination. If it is understandable, from a political point of view, the bitterness of those who, in the majority and in the government, wanted a more rapid approval of the measure on road murder, it is equally, indeed, much more understandable the satisfaction of those who, voting in favour of Mr Sisto's amendment, favored legal certainty for citizens, which is a value that must never be put in the background. We should never legislate on the wave of demagogy and the change we are discussing today has avoided a mistake and improved the text precisely in favour of those who are injured in a road accident. With the prospect of arrest in flagrant crime, it is not possible to discourage the fulfilment of the duty to provide assistance to an injured person, since the aid must be encouraged because it can help to save lives. The House of Deputies, by adopting a good amendment, has therefore corrected a serious and unacceptable mistake. As far as the whole of the measure is concerned, I note that many of the new offences introduced do not appear to comply with the canon of reasonableness, which, especially in criminal matters, presupposes, as established on several occasions by the Constitutional Court, that the use of legislative discretion satisfies the principle of proportionality between unlawful and sanction. In this regard, we do not believe that the extent of the penalty imposed in the case of road homicide and personal road injuries has been carefully assessed, even in relation to the minimum edittal limits laid down for other cases of manslaughter, such as, for example, the murder committed in violation of the rules on occupational accidents or the one committed because of serious medical misconduct. In the case of the driver's escape, which is intended both for road homicide and for personal road injuries, the rule in both cases has profiles of inconsistencies, which could arise mainly in the application field. In fact, in the event of a flight there is an increase of the sentence from a third to two thirds, but at the same time it is imposed a minimum edittale superior of beyond the double than the minimum previewed for the crime committed without aggravating. The paradoxical effect of an abnormal and, in any case, proportional to the most serious assumptions, would therefore be less serious. Moreover, in the case of minor gravity, the discretion of the judge in the quantification of the increase in penalty to the occurrence of the attack appears essentially nullified (a mess). There is a risk that a much-awaited but overly repressive and punitive law will be passed. Already today, under current legislation, those who have the misfortune to kill a person in the car are punished from three to ten years; therefore today they do not go unpunished, but are punished from three to ten years. Now, that is, tomorrow, if we approve this rule, it will be punished from eight to twelve years. Iniquity therefore lies in this: the minimum penalty is three to eight years and the maximum is ten to twelve years. So there is a disproportion that is difficult to comprehend. When it comes to drunks and drug addicts, maximum severity is right. If we talk instead of all the other twenty million normal people driving the car, of mothers bringing children to school or of those who go to work by their own means, mass criminalisation is not acceptable. These people, according to the law that we are approving, can be arrested with a sentence of four to ten years not because they are drugged or drank, but because they have passed with the red light, they have made a reversal of march or a daring overtaking or maybe they have been surprised by a changed signage from one day to the next. I shall conclude with a statement, Mr President. Often, in the wave of emotion, politics tries to give a correct response to public opinion, but we should always have in mind the constitutional parameters that actually cancel the effect pursued. The problem is not to enact a law on road murder, but to uphold the principles of law and the cornerstones of our legal system. It is not enough to propose and enact a law, it must be made unassailable also from the point of view of constitutionality and harmonize it with European regulations. Unfortunately, this law on road murder is not the case. [[Applause from the AL-A Group and Senator Bernini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u87	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u88	Mr President, this is an important law, but it has all in all been a disconcerting one. I have heard of the importance of prevention in this House and I have heard of the need to put an end to the deaths of road accidents at this reading and at the previous reading. What this House, however, has failed to do, not because it does not want to do so, but because a will outside this House has stood up, is a necessary distinction between the irresponsible attitudes of those who do not respect the rules and the accident that can actually happen. Let's start with irresponsible attitudes. It is certainly irresponsible who is driving in a state that clearly prevents its safety and especially that of others, that is, anyone who can meet on the road. How to suppress? The path chosen is that of the increase in penalties, which can undoubtedly have its educational function, although it would seem that, in our country in particular, the increase in penalties has little effect on citizens, who, for one reason or another, do not want to respect the rules anyway. There are certainly much more effective tools to convince people who drink and who do drugs (because we are talking about this in particular) not to drive; maybe not to drink and not to do drugs, but certainly not to drive. There would have been a number of steps and an increase in controls, precisely in places where we traditionally know very well that we drink and do drugs. But that would bother a series of interests. Doing tight controls outside the meeting places, in fact, would bother those who make their fortune on alcohol and, all in all, also the State, because with the excise on alcohol have been financed several legislative proposals. Therefore, there is no desire to actually punish and suppress those who, by abusing these substances, then get to drive. And this is the first incongruity. The second incongruity concerns prevention, which also means education; education must not be done only in schools (and, I insist, every kind of education required by this House is already done in schools). It is not young people who drive, but young people take examples from adults and young people in cars see adults who tend not to respect the rules; this is also a typical Italian evil. How do you enforce the rules? We need to increase controls, and that means increasing police patrols, at least fueling them. We know, in fact, that today the steering wheel has problems in refueling fuel. But that's also expensive. What emerges from this law is that, in truth, effective actions cost, prevention costs, controls cost; demagogy, on the other hand, gentlemen, is free, so away with demagogy. We are therefore approving a measure in which the lion's share makes it exemplary punishments. The criticism that, in the end, in the corridors, in conversations, has emerged from all the parliamentary arc is about the inability and unwillingness of this law to make differences. In fact, in this measure, individuals who have a different degree of responsibility are united. In not making this distinction one certainly goes to answer the right demands of those today wondering how to do to prevent the deaths on the road increasing and to increase the sense of responsibility. But it is completely unfair - and it is not part of the duty of a legislator to admit in the laws unfair concepts and criteria - to equate in the context of the same sanction (even if not to exactly the same extent, but, in fact, from the point of view of the approach that has been given, that is the spirit) subjects who could also reproach themselves for all their lives for not having seen a traffic light or a pedestrian strip and for having caused someone's death; it is unfair that they are included in a law by which, instead, they wanted to highlight objectively irresponsible behaviour. This is a fault of which this Parliament - the House and the Senate - will bear the burden. It's certainly not the first time and I realized it won't be the last one either. What remains in this last passage to the Senate, which will probably and sadly end with yet another request for trust? It remains a further fact, which relates not only to the content of the law, but also to this legislature and perhaps also to the quality - or not quality - of a political class in the relationship between Parliament and the Government. Parliament has a legislative power, which should, however, be exercised in the awareness of the work being done. Of course we have everything: the debate, the opposition, mediation, obstructionism; but all this in a work, in the Commission and in this House, which should bring to light at least a debate on the substance. On the other hand, there is a government that decides to take charge of bodies of associations; the government is very well placed to take charge of them, but it should accept the fact that its demands then have to or can be mediated with the will of those who have the responsibility to legislate, including the political part that supports it. What must be said loud and clear in this Assembly is that the bill as it stands is the result of an amendment made to the House on a major amendment, therefore on a text bearing the precise signature of Maria Elena Boschi, approved with confidence in this Senate, which therefore does not see the responsibility, neither the merit nor the demerit, of any of us present here. Maria Elena Boschi: I kept it in my file. Well, this text was so favorable to Members (and I would like to remind you that in the House of Deputies, by virtue of an unconstitutional electoral law, the Democratic Party still has a majority prize), it was so welcome that with one secret vote it was changed! Moreover, it has been changed in a direction - let me say this - that does not solve even the problem that he wanted to face, namely the fact that those who do not stop are not arrested and those who stop are instead immediately arrested. There was a specific reason why that article stipulated that immediate arrest in the case of a person who stopped to provide assistance would not be applied under the rules of arrest in flagrant crime. The principle of the legislator at the time was to encourage the will to stop and to help, thus going against what is the general spirit of the law: if I catch you that you are committing a crime, I will arrest you immediately. In that case it seemed more important to encourage the human aspect, which is necessary to induce the person to stop to assist in any case. Well, what happened to the House? A secret vote, as always, leads to a reversal of the situation. It would be appropriate to take note of a serious problem, of a disease of this representation, which is terrified by the secret vote because obviously the will, the spirit, the conscience of the individual senators - but also of the Members, apparently - do not correspond to the authoritarian indications of a government that imposes them, so much so that in the secret vote the result is reversed. And, moreover, he is not even able to manage the result of the secret vote, because at this point we are faced with the schizophrenia of a provision in which anyone, for any reason - because this concerns all those who run into the conducts listed in this bill - decides to leave someone on the asphalt must ask himself whether he killed him or not. If he killed him, it might be better to run away; if he didn't, it might be better to stop. Now I would like someone to use common sense and ask - and I would like to know if you have - what, in the concreteness of that gesture, of that serious fact, can happen in the head of a normal person. Let's forget the irresponsible ones who run away anyway. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] I really believe that this is still proof that if we do not take responsibility for doing serious work and use what is out of this Parliament only for the worst, we really have no other chance of reconnecting the representatives to the representatives. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u89	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u90	Mr President, the text we are examining is the result of the best intentions that animate those who have begun this journey, starting with the first signatory of the first measure, namely Senator Scilipoti Isgrò (this should be the Scilipoti Isgrò bill because of the fact that the unfortunate measure approved in the Senate last week passes by draft law Cirinna). Well, the best intentions of Senator Scilipoti Isgrò and many others in this House - certainly the vast majority - come to a disastrous result when working to give the President of the Council the way to tweet with its 140 characters - sometimes a little less - rather than with the desire to render a service to the country and make a useful law. The reason why it was considered appropriate - and I myself believe this - to put in place changes to the laws is not what someone has even said (and frankly when we deny official statistics I am always a little surprised, since accidents are constantly and strongly decreasing); the reason is that it has happened in several cases that subjects, clearly and seriously guilty, have put themselves under the drunken or drugged driving, have killed not one, but several people, have then received a treatment of absolute favor in the courts and perhaps have not even seen the prison or have seen it for a very short time. It should be reiterated that the reason why this has happened is not that the law still in force is not sufficiently strict, since, to date, it is possible to impose more than ten years in prison on those who, under the conditions I have described, with grave guilt, are driving in a state of drunkenness or under the influence of drugs and, by violating the rules of the road code, kill someone; already today - I repeat - you can exceed the ten years of imprisonment. The problem is that there are some judges who, between the maximum and the minimum of the sentence, have applied the minimum even in cases where it would have been necessary to apply the maximum. So perhaps, instead of making an irrational law, so that even in less serious cases a penalty that would perhaps be appropriate in the most serious cases, would be the case to intervene more on the issue of justice, rather than having passed last year a law on the so-called civil responsibility of the magistrates, with which it is stated in clear letters that never a magistrate will pay, especially if in bad faith (if in good faith it could also be, at least in residual way). I greet Mr Boschi, who is now here, who I fear is not here to listen to the reasons that I and the senators of other groups are presenting. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At another sitting, probably out of caution, even those of your party have pointed out, as we are doing, how serious problems this provision of law can cause. The Minister will be here, once again, to silence the voice of the conscience and voice of the Italian people, who are represented by the senators, as well as by the Members of the House, and not by a Government the result of maneuvers of the Palace, rather of party maneuvers, because there has never been an investiture outside the "be serene" Democratic Party and "be serene" Enrico Letta. [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] But perhaps Minister Boschi is here to listen to and accept the simple amendments that we have proposed and which are sacred. These amendments, if they do not pass, will put on the conscience of those who approve of this measure or of those who impose its vote (with everything that nobody is imposed here; those who are forced to vote by confidence do so because they want to vote on it) the death of some people. We must encourage those who cause an accident and those who invest a person to stop and help them; This is the first thing, because the aim is to reduce the number of road deaths. On the other hand, with the rule in our examination, which we would like to amend with the amendments that we have tabled, the person who has invested a person to flee is induced. In fact, if a person invests a person with guilt and flees, even if at a later moment he is taken, he will have a reduction of the penalty compared to what would happen if he was taken immediately, because in that case perhaps the alcohol rate would be higher than the threshold and he would have an increase of the penalty: from eight to twelve years of imprisonment (while for the simple murder goes from two to seven years). So he's got to run, not to mention running away, maybe getting away with it. If instead he stops, he helps the person invested, perhaps saving her life (after - alas - having risked causing her death), then he is sure that he is taken and arrested, with the obvious risk of incurring a higher penalty. Well, that is what you protect, with the ignoble imposition of the question of trust on a measure that has three amendments (in fact, it is only one, because all three go in the same direction). But I return to the intervention I intended to make before the prestigious arrival of Minister Boschi. Road accidents are undoubtedly a problem and cause thousands of deaths. I appeal to the Berlusconi Government in 2001-2006 to have created some rules, such as point-to-point driving, which have led to a reduction in road accidents from 7,096 in 2001 to 3,381 in 2014 (the last one we have statistics on). They're, I mean, more than halved. Only from 2010 to 2014 there was a further reduction of 18 percent and, only in the last year, a reduction of 0.6 percent and a reduction in the number of wounded from 380,000 to 250,000: 130,000 injured a year less thanks to the regulations approved under the Berlusconi Government, at the beginning of the last decade. Italy is found as the death rate - roughly - in the average of the European Union. There are countries that, when they do other strange things, are taken for example, such as Luxembourg and Belgium, which have a higher mortality than the Italian one; others have a lower mortality, and we must try to go in the direction of these other countries. But the solution is not the increase in penalties. I have heard in this House that other countries have even more serious penalties. I've heard of the United States, where up to 30 years of imprisonment for street murder is planned. Apart from the fact that the rules are better written in those countries (and then I come to some folly contained in this text), but I would point out that the United States, with its thirty years of imprisonment, has 40,000 deaths from road accidents per year. We have 3,000, as I said earlier. Now, since the United States has a population five times that of Italy, they should have 15,000 deaths a year; instead, they have - I repeat - 40,000. The difference between the deaths that the United States should have if they had a percentage like ours and the real one is much greater than the deaths caused by firearms, which are about 11,000 per year and of which there is a lot of talk (and because of which they want to amend the Constitution). So let us talk about real issues, such as the way the rules are written. For example, passing with the red light is considered aggravating, which increases the penalty (which usually ranges from two to seven years) from five to ten years. Now, the deaths caused by a lack of respect for the red light are 0.9 percent of the total; those caused by the failure to respect the stop sign are 5.6 percent, that is six times more. Six times more numerous are also the deaths caused by the failure to respect the precedence and five times more those due to the failure to respect the precedence to the right. In other words, for these infringements (no respect for the stop, no respect for the signal of precedence, no granting of precedence to the right) the incidents are pairs to 15 percent; for the red traffic light they are pairs to 0,9. For the red traffic light there is the aggression; for the others, no. Evidently, that's the same concept. Unfortunately, however, the laws are almost all arranged with a "citizen" concept. Many, beginning with me - I am proud of it - lived, born and resident in small countries, pretend to be the refined inhabitants of the city center, where undoubtedly thinking of a crossing without a traffic light is a bit strange. But the reality is that half of the accidents happen on extra-urban roads, because there are also people who drive not to have fun but to go to work, to the pharmacy, to take their children to school. These people circulate on the streets where they are much more frequent signals of precedence and stop rather than the traffic light. Who cares? On the other hand, we approve a rule that allows us to send a nice tweet "Italy changes towards" or something like that. To go against the hand is an assault while the forbidden turn is not; it is a pity that the accidents caused by driving against the hand are equal to 2.3 percent and those caused by a forbidden turn is equal to 2.9 percent. But the forbidden turnout, which is clearly more dangerous, at least potentially, is not considered an assault. The text also contains some very strange points. For example, consider this aggravating factor which - I repeat - multiplies the minimum penalty by two and a half times. The driver of a motor vehicle, following an overtaking of another vehicle at a pedestrian crossing, is expected to cause the death of a person. Cause the death of a person by passing on the pedestrian crossing - which has nothing to do with pedestrians - is considered an aggravating circumstance. Why? On the other hand, it is not considered an abuse to overwhelm a lady with a wheelchair or an old woman with a stick on the pedestrian stripes. This is not an aggravating circumstance. How do you write a law like that? Do you put your trust in it? You're stopping us from talking! Irregular overtaking constitutes 2% of the causes of accidents. It is therefore something totally irrational from the point of view of both the gravity of the guilt and the particularities that create the aggression. We could look at something else. Here we have five to ten years of pain with these strange predictions. Then there is a very serious rule - in my opinion - that has been introduced here. I'm glad you didn't trust me last time, or that wasn't what you did either. The rule - which was not there before - has been introduced, so if there is a contest of guilt, there is a reduction of the penalty, but it is up to half. So, if 99 percent of the accident is caused by another and 1 percent by their own fault, you are subject to 50 percent of the sentence; let's talk about two and a half years. Suppose that a person in a city, finding his lane cluttered by a stationary vehicle, to avoid tails and even danger situations, passes in the other lane, going counterhand (consisting that there is no one in front of him for the next 100 meters, which should allow him to carry out such maneuver), and that, from the opposite direction, he comes out, with irregular turn, a scooter at 100 kilometers an hour, crashing against this car: the first driver would see a penalty of two and a half years of jail because he has passed for a few meters a car that cluttered his sense of march. 12:37 a.m. (Malan followed). If the driver of that scooter, instead of killing himself, kills your son next to you in the car, he takes two and a half years in jail. Does that make sense? If both the biker and your son die in the car, you can even get to 15 years in jail for a very small part of guilt, which isn't really the case, because you've been running against the hand. Instead, not respecting the traffic light or a stop sign is fine. How do you do that? I conclude by pointing out that the rapporteur, Mr Lumia, when there was a fair request for referral back to the Commission, responded negatively because we should have discussed the amendments: yes, we are discussing them with confidence! Congratulations; you are doing serious damage to every Italian who puts himself on the road, to the right, to the victims of the road accidents that are exploited to make an unworthy, irrational and dangerous law, especially for the good people and not for the pirates of the road. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u91	Since Senator Lumia has given up his speech, I declare the general debate closed. Since the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, also renounces his reply, I call the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u92	Mr President, we are at the last stage. There have been four parliamentary passages and this is the fifth. Therefore, there has certainly been a broad debate and deepening both in the Commission and in the House in the previous four passages and in the current one between the House and the Senate. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). With confidence! [[Comments from the PD Group]] , Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. I understand that Senator Giovanardi has not finished all the arguments, but at this moment, unfortunately, it must be the Government that takes the responsibility to respond having the senators already had the opportunity to confront themselves. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, don't interrupt. Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. Of course, according to the parliamentary regulations, today we are only discussing the only possible amendments in the light of the only change made to the House and not the whole measure, which can no longer be modified in the other parts. So this debate is very interesting, but today it was limited to the individual points that could be changed. I believe, of course, that the element of sanctions is not the only one through which the Government, Parliament and the State must intervene: it is no coincidence that there are already planned measures and economic resources that have been in some way arranged, especially in favour of ANAS, to restore, through targeted interventions, the roads that have a higher rate of danger and that therefore need more maintenance and adjustment of the road surface. At the same time, you know very well - because the relevant measure is being discussed in the Commission right here in the Senate - that there is the possibility of making changes to the road code, precisely to protect the weakest and particularly pedestrians and cyclists. At the same time, we are also trying to carry out a preventive and educational activity, through targeted projects with the Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR), in schools, to educate even a better knowledge of the code of the road and the rules, which obviously must concern all citizens, from the earliest age. I believe, however, that today we arrive at the end of a path that, for the first time, recognizes much more stringent measures, that will protect the weakest subjects and will try to avoid the repetition of episodes, such as those that the chronicle recently recalled, of subjects that remain unpunished, against victims, that unfortunately will no longer have a future. Anything can be said about this law, except - as Senator Malan said in his intervention - that those who will flee will remain unpunished, because for the first time there is a very severe penalty for those who flee, just in the case of road murder. For the first time this measure is included in our order and it is certainly not mild. That's why the government believes that it trusts such an important measure... GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, I'm calling you back to order. CARDINALI (PD). Shame on you that you have so much to be ashamed of! Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. I sincerely believe, Senator Giovanardi, that this Government should not only not be ashamed, but should be proud to put the continuation of its activity and political career to protect the victims of the road, in order to recognize rights to them and their families. (Prolonged [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] Therefore, the government is certainly not ashamed to put trust in a measure so felt by the citizens. SANTANGELO (M5S). Buffoon! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, have a seat. Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. That is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of trust in the approval of the single article of bill No 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-D, already approved by the Senate, amended by the Chamber of Deputies, again amended by the Senate and again amended by the Chamber of Deputies. (Prolonged [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups. Protests of Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u93	Senator Giovanardi, I'm calling you back to order. Let the call to order be put to the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u94	The Presidency notes that the question of trust is placed on the single article of bill No 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-D, in the same text as that approved by the House of Deputies. I therefore call upon the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.44 p.m. and resumed at 1.16 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u95	The session is resumed. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the single article of the bill n. 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-D, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the discussion on confidence, which will begin at 2 p.m., one hour and thirty minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will follow. The call will take place at 17. Until the vote of confidence, all the Commissions are offended. The Foreign Minister's willingness to inform the Senate on the situation in Libya was also acquired on Wednesday 9 March at 11 a.m. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes each. The sitting is suspended and will resume at 2 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.17 p.m. and resumed at 14.01 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u96	The session is resumed. I invite colleagues to take their seats.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u97	Mr President, it is not easy to take the floor under circumstances that it is not clear whether they are tragic or tragic for this Senate. In fact, just two hours ago, when I asked to suspend the examination of the measure and its referral back to the Commission, Senator Lumia addressed the House and said: what return to the Commission? The three amendments tabled must be voted on in this House. We are here to see whether or not the three amendments will be acceptable to the House. Two hours later, the Minister of Relations with Parliament arrived to cut off Mr Lumia's face by explaining to him that, once again, the Government places confidence on such a sensitive subject. I have seen PD colleagues frantically applaud this decision of the Government: perhaps they have forgotten that the text on which the Government placed confidence for the second time in the Senate is diametrically opposed to what the Senate itself approved, if I recall correctly, at second reading, as amended by an amendment by a PD colleague who had 90% of the votes of the Assembly. In fact, all the speakers had noted that the measure started with the right understanding to punish those who are drugged, those who are drunk, the pirate of the road, in the wake of the right emotion of the public opinion who, in the face of behaviors so dangerous to others and to actual massacres, believed and believed that the penalties for those who held these behaviors were too tenuous. Then, here in the Senate, we found ourselves seeing substantially equalized those who risk their own lives and others with discrittled and pirate attitudes to all the other drivers, doing - I repeat - basically a favor to drunks and drug addicts, who are not understood why, at the maximum penalty, they are equalized to the mother of the family, to which an accident can happen. It will be better for the Italians to know, because so far the information has only explained that, if you are not drunk, you are not drugged and you do not go at an excessive speed, you do not run the risk of being in prison until 18 years or being immediately arrested. No, sir: with the confidence that the Government has placed, when this provision will be published in the Official Gazette, you risk from five to ten years in prison in the particular cases that the Chamber has added, that is, if you take a road counterhand, if you do not see the red traffic light having the sun in the eyes at sunset or if you make a reversal of march in the vicinity of a bump or near a pedestrian crossing. If in these circumstances you happen to incur a fatal accident, you are immediately arrested: even if you stopped to assist and you cooperated, if there is a dead person go to jail immediately. The House has passed, with the secret vote, an amendment that does not go to jail for those who stop to assist a serious wounded. But, when you have an accident, how do you know, when you stop to assist the victims of the accident, if there is a serious injury or a dead person? Well, if there is a serious wounded person and you stop to assist him, you do not go to jail; if there is a dead person, despite stopping to help, you are taken and put in prison. And, in the cases that I mentioned before (passage with the red light, inversion of march and so on), we go from five to ten years of imprisonment and, in case the dead are two, even if who is in the cockpit of the person who caused the accident, even if his family member, we go to jail until eighteen years. If, on the other hand, road traffic offences are of a different type, such as, for example, non-compliance with the stop sign, the penalty is lower. The reasons why a greater penalty should be provided for those who do not see the red light than those who do not see the stop is all in the mind of the government. It is also true, however, that the Government, in the Commission, told us that it was well aware that the rules that will be adopted today by those who vote for trust are muddled, wrong and should be corrected, but that the idea of a manifesto, of a flag to be flagred, prevails, to say that it has done so too. I therefore believe that we are at a level of degradation and irresponsibility towards the country, to say the least, frightening. However, colleagues from the other side of the Chamber, I do not accept lessons from you on these issues. I would like to know where all those who, at the expense of night's discos and economic interests, have been opposed for years and years to any measure to curb Saturday night's massacres. I have heard Mrs Filippin say that we cannot remain silent in the face of a massacre of 3,000 deaths a year. But when there were 8,000 a year, why were you silent? The dead were 8,000 a year, when we began the battle to reduce the mortality rate on the roads. It is, however, a battle that we had to do alone, with the contrast of the left on every kind of measure, even that to close all the discotheques at four in the morning. It was a measure aimed at avoiding, with the afterhours, that some discotheques would open at 6 am and, therefore, that the boys, coming out at four o'clock from a discotheque, would make a hundred kilometers to go to them, perhaps driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, but also simply having died of sleep. I have the documentation of hundreds of accidents, because we monitored the name, the surname, the age of the deceased - and unfortunately the average age was twenty years - and the time they took place, which on average was around 4 in the morning. These accidents were all made with the mold, without a sign of braking, maybe in the straight, and the causes were known: they were people who put themselves in the car without being able to face the road. But everything we have proposed has always been rejected by the left, because first the freedom of enterprise, the interests of discotheques, economic interests, the "fun", Rimini, Riccione, etc. So I've had a lot of battles in this regard. Now the drug department - I mean here - has been dismantled: another great result of this Government. It is a department that had dozens of projects in place, prevention, in schools, in places of aggregation, for teachers, for parents and children. With the "Drugs on street," a night prevention project, with which they put together police, city police and voluntary associations to monitor and monitor from 23 o'clock until 4 o'clock in the morning, especially on the nights of the massacres, that is Saturday evening, we achieved extraordinary results. If Mrs Filippin now says that the fall in the number of deaths on the roads this year is likely to have a reversal of trend, let us ask ourselves - and I ask the Department - why all these projects have been planned. How many "Drugs on street" are underway in Italian cities and how many patrols coordinated by the prefect are around at night to mitigate such phenomena? How many alcohol - drug tests and tests are done? How many road police patrols are involved all week to fight traffic accidents? Perhaps we will find that the Government or the members of the Government are committed to legalizing drugs, such as undersecretary Della Vedova, who, instead of being undersecretary to foreign affairs, seems to take full-time care of legalizing drugs. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] They will then explain to me what happens by legalizing drugs: a subject can legally get cannabis, but when he gets in the car, if he has an accident, he is inflicted eighteen years in jail, although first he has allowed himself to get drugged as much as he wants. This is the genius logic of this government, which puts trust! If the dead, fortunately, have gone from 8,000 to 3,000 and there is perhaps a reversal of the trend, due to having put aside all these programs, I ask again my colleagues, who say that it is a tragedy the deaths of 3,000 people, where they were when there were 8,000 deaths a year. Were they with the nightclubs? Just go and see the parliamentary acts to find the heartfelt appeals for freedom of enterprise. We made a real calculation - go and verify it - according to which, in those years, the years of the war in Iraq, we had so many deaths in the massacres on Saturday night as the entire American army had in battle during that war. These were the gigantic and tragic dimensions of the phenomenon, not to mention the wounded and permanently injured. Whoever speaks to you, but not only me, was among the first to say, in front of these shocking news reports, that those who drive a vehicle in those conditions must answer for his actions, absolutely, and he has no hesitations, because he must know that when he guides - as Mr Cucca has effectively said - it is as if he had in his hand a revolver with which he can shoot: he has a means that can be lethal to others. So, what the Senate had done was absolutely right. The colleagues who applauded the Government and the text under consideration are the same ones who two readings ago applauded a measure that said the reverse: agree with yourself! If the text you voted on with the amendment was right, that is obviously unfair. I understand that some of my fellow senators are showing signs of insuffering, and perhaps think that two plus two is five, because of the two each: either it was right that we had voted here or it is right that we are voting on it, which has turned it upside down in the way I have just said it. The philosophy of the measure was to strike those who put themselves in a position to harm themselves and others. On the contrary, it has been modified to become a criminal measure that criminalises anyone who drives. When the text is published in the Official Journal, anyone who leaves in the morning by car will run the risk of spending part of his life in prison and being arrested without technical malice. My colleagues in the League have mentioned rape and robbery, because for the mother of the family who accompanies the children to school we have provided for greater penalties than for the rapist and the robber. And what would this mother of a family do? Was she drugged? No. Was she drunk? No. Were you going 100 kilometers an hour? No. Did he do something arson? Absolutely not. Is there a serious fault? No, he's committed something that can happen to everyone to commit. And those who claim that in life it will never happen to them - for example - to take a road in the forbidden sense of mind, because it is not true. There can be, in fact, a thousand conditions for such a thing. I can't tell the Senate, but I'm asking the government for this flag, put under the motto of Catenacci, which was: In jail, why do they put their family mother or 18-year-old boy in jail? Why do you put the commercial agent in prison for years when you've already ruined your life? Already he has on his conscience that he killed a family member or another person if he was in the car with him; already, rightly, he must give compensation for the damage. Maybe we increase this compensation, with insurance, by providing to restore the family, as far as is possible, at least from the economic point of view, which is a very important thing. It's some kind of revenge. I would not know how to define otherwise the taking of a person who in life has had the misfortune that something like this happened to him and, if the dead are two, making him stay 18 years in prison. Why are you in jail? What is the ratio of this measure, if it is not - as we said at the beginning - hitting those who put the lives of others at risk? The problem is that neither in the Commission nor in this House has the government given us an answer, except to stammer that there was a need to give a signal. Moreover, Mr Boschi has come to tell us this morning that such madness is going on, and then they are ready, in the discussion of other rules, to correct the things that are not going on. It is not that the rules for organic intervention are first corrected. Senator Lumia used a very nice expression, saying that the rules are "almost" precise or something like that, that is to say that here we proceed at wholesale: the penal code we reform with norms that can almost be right. Soon after, we can make another provision that corrects the twists. But if the twists had been reported before, why couldn't they be corrected? I am telling you this because if the three amendments had been voted on by secret vote, they would have passed. My colleagues, on the right, on the center and on the left, in front of the idea that if a person - I repeat - absolutely not drunk, not drugged, who did not do pirate things, who perhaps went 30 kilometers an hour, who happens a serious accident stops to lend help and pack it, they take it away and arrest it, in front of a madness of this type they would ask: but how, would you arrest it? If a person stops to help in one of those situations of violation of the road code that does not present the behavior I have quoted, it is obvious that you cannot arrest her. The drunk already has a tendency to escape, because he thinks: you will fish me tomorrow, but I will no longer be drunk and therefore the aggression will not be there; but if I stop to help, you pack me, take me away and arrest me. Yes, the rule on which you vote is precisely the case of the person who stops to attend. To witness who? When after the accident a person who may have burst the airbag or is in a confused state stops to help, can he know if there is a serious injury or if there is a deceased? The House in this case has established that, if there is a serious wounded, it does not go to jail; instead, if the person has died, they arrest him immediately. But can you write standards like that? Can you put something from Monopoli in the penal code? Probability and unforeseen: pull up the paper and, depending on what comes out, you can or can't ruin your life and you can end up in jail? But I would just like to know from which minds of the legislative are born such norms: is the urban vigilante of Palazzo Chigi who does these things? Once, at Palazzo Chigi, there were flourishing councilmen of state, who at least knew the law. What are the offices that produce these filthy things? They themselves admit to the Commission that it is nefarious, but the desire to say prevails: we have also planted this flag; we, for the first time, have done this reform. On the other hand, we have made a whole series of reforms, which have reduced the deaths of road accidents from 8,000 to 3,000, and we claim to have done them well, meditated, thoughtfully, with the introduction of a point-to-point driving licence. We had to improve, and we totally agreed to improve. Mr President, not only will I vote no to trust, but it is a no that comes after another no to trust last week. I cannot forget, as Minister of Relations with Parliament, that there is a Government-Parliament relationship that should respect the Constitution and the parliamentary regulations, while here both the Constitution and the parliamentary regulations are thrown into the waste. In fact, last week they voted with confidence on a measure never examined in the Commission, so much so that 51 colleagues raised the conflict of attribution before the Constitutional Court. Then, we had to vote on the confidence of a maxi amendment of the Government, a new text never seen, which did not have the signature of the Head of State, while Article 87 of the Constitution provides, when the Government submits a bill to the Chambers, the authorization of the Head of State. So we found ourselves in a total anomaly of upheaval in the Government-Parliament relationship. This week on a measure on which there were three amendments to vote on, what has prevailed, the free will of Parliament? Colleagues in the PD, your free will was expressed when a colleague of yours tabled an amendment that removed the references to the traffic light, to the reversal of traffic and to the pedestrian stripes, and this amendment was voted by 95% of the House. That was the will expressed by the Senate! Today, with confidence, you vote for a measure that is exactly the opposite of what the Senate, with free vote, had passed a few months ago. Does it seem normal to you or is it not a condition this continuous blackmail of a government that says: either vote for trust or go home, even if you think otherwise? For these reasons, President, our vote will be strongly negative for the method (i.e. for these continuous trusts) and for the merit of this measure which is a shame for the law and the legal system of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u98	I inform the Assembly that, as already communicated to the parliamentary groups in the short way, in the session of question time tomorrow, at 16, the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, Dr. Gian Luca Galletti, will answer questions on the following topics: position of the Government on the circular economy package and reclamation operations concerning industrial sites of national interest and waste management and disposal sites.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u99	Mr President, it is a shame to speak in a semi-empty Chamber about such an important subject. It is true that the question of trust has been raised, but this should not prevent this House from assessing the content of a measure such as this which comes at this point, among other things, to a final vote with a very serious delay; a delay which, above all, offends the victims of the road and their families, all those human tragedies for which, until now, there has been a lack of justice, can be said almost. The Group of the North League has always supported a measure to tighten the penalties for the so-called road homicide, while remembering that this case already exists in our legal system. And it doesn't come up, at the outcome of this confidence, that this is a measure branded Renzi as if Renzi had invented it. Road murder already exists and penalties are already provided for. What we wanted, however, and in this sense we had also tabled a draft law, and what we wanted to do was something different, as we explained in the Commission, no matter how much the Commission's work is needed now, since then the major amendments and very important measures are adopted by the vote of confidence, so, in the end, we do not even discuss the content of these measures. In this case, neither have we; the bill at our examination is the result of a governmental elaboration. We in the North League wanted the conduct of a drunk driver or drug addict to be particularly sanctioned. That was our goal because the behavior that was worth punishing was not, as is foreseen in this text, that of the eighteen-year-old who was driving, perhaps for an overtaking at an intersection risks from five to ten years in jail. What we wanted to do was to punish such a serious course of action that, as it is put into practice, it goes beyond the limits of guilt, so much so that it was also discussed, and it will be remembered by those who followed the debate. That is, who is driving in a drunken state or after taking drugs is aware of producing an accident and causing death? Do you take responsibility for what may happen by that course of action? This was also why a particular tightening of the penalty had been discussed, as if this course of action were arson. Basically, if I'm driving and I don't want that effect, at least I accept it. In that formulation there was also talk of what in doctrine is defined as indirect malice. That was the goal and that was the motivation for accepting particularly severe pains, i.e. it had to pass the message that if you drank you wouldn't drive because you went to jail immediately. That was the target. There has been a debate in the Commission on justice and more than one Member of this Commission had raised concerns about this approach, which was first raised by ourselves but also shared by others. These concerns concerned in particular the prediction of manly assumptions such as, for example, the counterhand guide, the U-turn and the overtaking at an intersection. I would like to remind you that the sentence of five to ten years' imprisonment is more serious than that for a robbery and at least comparable to that for the extortion offence. In this case, we are talking not about those who are driving in a drunken state or under the influence of drugs, but about those who are likely to make a mistake in driving behaviour, for example with the lack of respect for the red traffic light or in the overtaking phase. These are the elements of the measure that raise serious doubts, although we do not have the will to get rid of a law that, on the contrary, provides almost ineffective punishments. These concerns were not raised in the measure under consideration. In the text launched by the Senate, there was a balanced, thoughtful structure that fits well into our system. Once we went to the Chamber of Deputies, we were surprised to see this return, which, among other things - I remember because it is important - saw the introduction of a couple of extremely serious passages with reference to the hypothesis of guilt contest and the worsening of the penalty when the insurance is not paid. The Group of the North League had tabled amendments, but, probably in order not to give us the luxury, a large amendment was tabled which essentially transposed them. The measure based on this new approach was therefore approved with a vote of confidence. Imposing a system with a vote of confidence can cause problems that we could probably have solved in the Commission, perhaps even achieving very shared results. The vote of confidence is, from this point of view, an imposition that took place last week and on many other occasions over the last year. We must go back to doing the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, without suffering a governmental activity made only of diktat and c'est à prendre ou à laisser. There must be a processing in this respect. We wouldn't want you to get to create a great evocative and emotional effect: huge penis and lifelong license. We must remember that the measure that must come out of this House is a rule and the rule is not a journalistic proclamation or made in a meeting. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Albertini]] A rule is enforced in courtrooms and when it is read by the magistrate or lawyer, in the context of a dispute, it does not have the same meaning as when it is read in the newspaper. When a matter is brought forward, the rule must be serious and, only if so, it becomes credible and effective. We share - and we will continue to reiterate this - the objective of the worsening of the penalties for driving in the drunken state and under the influence of narcotic substances, but what we do not understand is the imbalance created within the measure with those assumptions which, as mentioned earlier, are purely manslaughterous and remain of their nature. Sorry because there was the possibility and the time to modify the provision, but the Government, for the umpteenth time, did not want to take advantage of the opportunity to dismiss a good norm, elaborated within the Parliamentary Assemblies. Eventually we will come to something that will probably give a first feeling of joy and probably also of victory, will also be felt by the victims of the road, whose considerations and arguments we fully share. Let us always remember that for those who have experienced a tragedy, one of those tragedies that happen on the road and that are caused precisely by the conducts of which we have said above, what we want is basically justice and not revenge. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u100	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u101	Mr President, the main issue is that this is the debate on trust in the government. We would have liked it to be the discussion about the configuration of the measure and how it should better correspond to the needs for which it was proposed and which motivated it. On the other hand, once again, we are faced with a procedure which we can basically define, for its size and for its use, a pathological procedure in the parliamentary debate and in the way in which legislative measures are adopted. We see more and more pressure on the debate in the Commission and we see more and more of the measures being taken in this House without a rapporteur, while the time required for discussion and examination of the measures is being kept to a minimum. Finally, in order not to have any surprises about the outcome of the amendments and therefore to avoid possible changes to the text, trust and confidence are placed in the Government. So even a measure that deals with a subject on which we would have liked to say ours and, together with many others, we would have liked to be absent, we are forced to say no. We are forced to say no to the measure because trust is placed on it. So it has been done - take care - for so many measures that pertain to matters of primary competence of Parliament, i.e. where the role of the Government should possibly be that of respectful spectator. We cannot intervene on everything, on civil rights, on issues of conscience, on ways of organizing the lives of citizens, even on the most intimate activities, always with the procedure of trust. It is a wrong way of doing the debate, which is detrimental to the relationship between Parliament, which is the representation of the Italian people as a whole, and the Italian people themselves. The Italian people are not represented by the Government. It is Parliament that represents the Italian people; and it represents it all, not a piece, that is, the one that has the majority. Arguments of this nature deserve to be discussed by everyone and by all political parties; they deserve to be addressed with the civic sense that is required of us parliamentarians in relation to the needs expressed by the citizens. It is not a question of economic policy or military strategy, on which the government's programme is based. This and others very similar to this are issues that pertain to the lives of citizens, where majorities can be even more fluid, where even each individual parliamentarians can manifest themselves in relation to what they have as their own feelings, as their own personal experience, as a terminal of a requirement represented by their voters. This is no longer possible. I am no longer able to keep the number of requests for confidence on the individual measures that have been made in this House. We would have liked to have discussed this subject better. We would have wanted to go ahead and approve it. We would have liked to have responded to the people who suffered mourning and heavy injuries from events of this nature. We would have wanted to ensure that citizens, even those who drive the car, do not incur excessive penalties in the event of liability, which must be punished, where the law provides for penalties in the appropriate proportion and where the role of the judicial judge is respected in assessing any circumstances, aggravating or not, related to the specific fact that he is subjected to his examination. We wanted to do all this. Instead, on time, in one morning the government arrives, puts the trust, the debate is closed and we are forced to vote in the opposite direction. And perhaps tomorrow, in public opinion, we will be responsible for a negative vote, because otherwise we would have to vote for the confidence of a government to which we have decided not to give confidence. But the reasons for trusting a government are very far from the content of individual legislation. It's kind of like civil unions. If, at the end of the whole journey, we vote with confidence on a text on which, for example, some of us could also say that we agree, they cannot do so because that "we agree" tomorrow would be interpreted, in general, as we have given the confidence to this Government, as a whole, for every initiative of its own, for every mission of its own. We, Mr President, believe that this costume should be better regulated. Let us move towards the conclusion of the process of constitutional reform: this Senate will be very transformed and the House of Deputies will be the only branch of Parliament to give confidence to the Government. But, Mr President, do we think that an abuse of the trust institution in these terms can be tolerated in the future? Do we think that we should concentrate - because, at the end of the sarabanda, that means - all the legislative and executive activity at the head of a single body? If the selection of the political staff that constitutes that organ is quite narrow due to the electoral dynamics, do we think that the country can be governed by a small and narrow circle of political staff? These processes are delicate, you have to have balance. Parliament is the legislative body and this must be respected because, if it were not respected, there would be a clear violation of our Constitutional Charter. The systematic use of the vote of confidence, if formally permitted, substantially results in a reduction in Parliament's power, which runs counter to the principles contained in our Constitutional Charter. This institution must be relied upon when circumstances arise which recall the very existence of that governing body. 14.42 (URAS follow). Do we think that if there were a will against this measure here today, would that mean that this will coincides with an absolute criticism of the Government? It could be instrumentally used for this purpose, but it is not in this direction that the vote on a content like this is manifested. I shall conclude, Madam President, by drawing the attention of all of us to another issue. Do we think that criminal law should be subject to an evolution whereby the increase in penalties is the only way by which to strike crime and make it pay for responsibilities and faults? Look, we are going in that direction and we are making sure that in this country, in society, the reasons, the reasons and the circumstances in which those crimes are carried out remain absolutely intact. It is not with an increase in penalties that we avoid the disasters that we are trying to avoid with this measure. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group and Senator Campanella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u102	Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this House is about to vote on the question of trust raised by this Government for the 50th time in two years and - alas - the expectations are that at other times - I hope little - this Government can use this act which is undemocratic for the free expression of the members of this House. Parliamentary space has been phagocited. On every issue, of any kind, of greater or lesser importance, the Government follows the same same method, which fully transcends our constitutionally guaranteed function of bringing to this House the voices of our citizens, whom we are called to represent. Instead, with the establishment of this Government and its strategy to silence any other voice, we find ourselves occupying these benches in order to hear the denial of yes and no crowding (in a moment we will see them before the Presidency). On the other hand, we have seen how rarely - almost never - the Ministers of this Government have answered questions, questions, motions, and many - and I take advantage of this opportunity - I complain that I am still unanswered; a further affront to an inspection union which allows us to bring to the attention of this House the real problems of citizens throughout the national territory. On ethical issues such as unions, on issues relating to the criminal law, such as today's road murder, nothing changes: the Government raises the question of trust. In fact, in recent weeks, something very serious has happened: the majority that holds this Government has changed. But this, in the current suspended democracy, does not seem to raise any problem of legitimacy. In other times he would have shouted at the scandal. But where is the moral and political ethics that governs this government? Where is he? But nothing seems to pass. Nothing seems to be noticed. Everything goes indifferent. These are matters of confidence at a pressing pace, overcoming parliamentary prerogatives, institutional forcings and new majorities: these are the methods of this Government. Moreover, this unacceptable tactic is used to pursue objectives which are absolutely contrary to the principles which have hitherto governed the institutional and constitutional set-up of our system. Above all, on this measure it is really inconvenient to hear that the Government has put its trust, even on this issue. There were only three amendments. We were not afraid of any obstruction, as someone shouted a short time ago, against the hypothesis of thousands of amendments. There was no risk of disrupting the parliamentary process, but even today this House is forced to interrupt the regular debate. It is a further slap in the face of democracy. This measure on road murder is, in all its aspects, contrary to the fundamentals of criminal law, contrary to the real demands of the citizens, contrary to the rights of the citizens whom we have the duty and the honour to represent here. But here the honor seems to be a disused word. Coming specifically, I can only point out that this bill is yet another missed opportunity for this Government, which is very capable of pairing right ideas with zero, if not even disastrous, results. We have already seen it with jobs act, good school, even reform of the Constitution, and today, with the draft law on road murder. Because there is no doubt that a new law was necessary, but this is not the law that Italy needed and would need. Confused, non-organic, with Marchian errors, such as what someone invests on pedestrian strips is not considered an assault. And like that, even more terrible, that if a driver causes an accident, and stops to assist, he is arrested. But do we realize? But how is it possible even to conceive such a law? But how can one fail to understand that this is a pure and simple incitement to escape? And then let me say that the question of trust, of which I have already spoken, does not allow to put in place other errors, other inaccuracies, that the Government knows very well to be present in the text, with the logic, also this already used, that then, in another law, in an organic provision, later, one day, perhaps, will be put in place. This bill had only one task: to finally define the simple concept that those driving, knowing that they are a danger to others (for example, under the influence of alcohol or drugs), must be punished in an exemplary manner. That was necessary. Unfortunately, we have missed this further opportunity. That is what the Italian citizens asked us to do. What does manslaughter have to do with errors, which by their very nature are difficult to identify, and in fact there is no precision in indicating them? In conclusion, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this Government once again, through its President-in-Office (and I use an improper term) calls for confidence. But where are the dignity and responsibility towards citizens, who expected an important law, which was to be the law of all Italians, who on many occasions had to suffer, because of this type of accident to family members and loved ones, the injustice of a law that is not there? What, then, is the responsibility for these fellow citizens of ours? He's not here. There is no such thing, because otherwise there would not have been confidence again, but there would have been confrontation and consideration of those three amendments. Instead, once again, we have missed this opportunity. Let's question it, then. The answer is simple, Madam President: the President-in-Office of the Council, having not been directly elected by the citizens, does not feel this responsibility towards them. Stop it, please! Let's stop it!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u104	The debate on the matter of trust is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u107	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, the measure has been traveling through the Chambers - as everyone has said - for nine months now because the process began in May last year. We're on the fifth trip. Article 589- bis introduces the new crime of nautical and road homicide. At the fifth reading today, we are being asked for confidence to put a point on this issue. We in Italy hope that this measure, which will presumably be law from tomorrow, will effectively constitute a deterrent in order to prevent a person from driving a motor vehicle or boating in a state of alcoholic drink or under the intake of narcotic or psychotropic substances. It is right to point out that the drinker does not drive and the driver does not drink, as the drug user does not drive and the driver does not have to do drugs. Obviously, this law does not exempt the need on the part of the State to implement all good preventive practices of education and control in order to avoid the damage that accidents cause. The damage suffered does not always have a decisive prognosis; indeed, almost always results in a social loss, reaching a point of no return. That is why it is important to educate in virtuous behavior. I hope that the reform of the road code, currently under discussion in our Commissions and waiting for it to be completed, will be able to close the circle and make an organic restructuring also by ensuring that this bill, if it has inconsistencies, as has been highlighted by many of the senators in here, can find its more organic structure thanks to the renewal of the road code. We, as Italy of Values, will say yes to this provision because we think it is also useful to respond to all families waiting for justice.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u110	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, the Fare Group cannot but support a move towards the introduction of the crime of street murder. We are at this time alongside the families of the victims, the associations and all those who were waiting and waiting for a law that is clearly strict and that goes towards the application of sanctioning rules. In most cases, as we have seen on the streets by day and by night, accidents are unfortunately due to situations of inability due to drunkenness or drugs, because of the inability to manage the moment of driving. Of course, we are at the side of these families. We wanted to understand, to make our contribution, because this law has something that can be improved. Certainly a law must be made, but it had to be done with another method, with a debate that would not have changed much the timing but would have allowed a more in-depth and in-depth exchange and would have allowed the political parties and Parliament to interact in a concrete way and to help smooth out the differences that still exist to ensure that there was a unanimous vote in favour of a shared text. We are not in favour of forcing trust. We do not share it on such a delicate and awaited topic, on which we wanted to be there to give answers to the families and people outside who are waiting and suffering. We wanted to be there with a vote in favour of the measure, but for the umpteenth time we cannot conceive confidence as a form of blackmail in the sense of forcing a choice between yes and no, between trust or not. The measure could find sharing and have a contribution from everyone. I'll say it again. Thus, with the question of trust, our Group is in difficulty, even on a subject that is expected, important and fundamental, to give security to the citizens and to ensure that they can live better, both those who have suffered this damage, and those who will be able to suffer them tomorrow; but it also concerns those who, on the contrary, unintentionally, suffer the same penalties. Among other things, it poses the problem of enforcing penalties, thus affecting compliance with the law. Having a law is not enough: you have to know how to apply it and apply it. So we're not going to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u113	Mr Bruni (CoR). Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the third passage of the bill and, on behalf of the Conservatives and Reformists Group, I must reiterate my adherence to the idea of introducing into our legislation the crime of road murder, with the related amendments to the penal code and the road code. At the same time, I must point out that the uncertainties and inconsistencies of the sanctioning regime, as provided for in this draft law, remain intact even after the many parliamentary passages. A number of colleagues have spoken of the gross flaws of this bill, in general discussion: the considerations that Senator Malan made a few hours ago were very significant. I therefore do not want to go into all the questions arising from the future application of the new cases, which will be introduced into our legal system in the coming days. Certainly, the idea of strengthening sanctions for those who, driving a vehicle, should cause physical injury or, even, the murder of other motorists or pedestrians, for being in a state of drunkenness, medium or serious, or altered as a result of drug use is acceptable. This is likely to have an immediate deterrent effect. But there is one question: are we sure that, after a first phase of some sort of psychological terrorism, this effect will remain constant? Are we sure that only with the further escalation of sanctions can the sad phenomenon of deaths and serious accidents on the roads be prevented? In this specific matter, as in others, it cannot be thought that it is only the increase in penalties that guarantees the desired result, that is, the containment of the number of road victims. Better results would be achieved by effectively increasing and actually preventing the most serious road accidents. Think of the nefarious phenomenon of massacres on Saturday evening, first recalled by Senator Giovanardi. If, in order to avoid this sad problem, we had limited ourselves to the mere lifting of sanctions, I do not think that we would have achieved significant and positive results, so much so that only in those territories - and not all of them - in which a precise prevention strategy has been put in place, more comforting data are being collected. In addition to the fear of the criminal consequences, in those territories that have put in place different strategies, to dissuade the attendees of discotheques from driving, after having previously found their own psychophysical conditions they have also tried to favor the connections with means of collective transport: let's think of all those summer coastal zones, in which the system of buses specifically intended for this service has spread. Finally, a police control service was set up in the immediate vicinity. You find the police as soon as you get out of the disco, before you can even drive and produce such negative results. With this I want to point out that the prevention part is much more effective and important than the purely sanctioning part and intended only to affect with changes to the penal code or the road. It is significant and we have already said so before, how much it may have contributed to improving the road safety conditions of the introduction of the Tutor system in motorways and so it could be done with a series of electronic and computer devices, which start to be installed in cars. With regard to public infrastructure, too, the problem of prevention should begin to be reconsidered. When the road police or the police carry out such actions, our municipalities and the provinces, for which this competence has remained unchanged, take congruent and significant sums which, when linked to penalties for violation of the rules of the road code, should be specifically intended for the improvement of the safety and maintenance conditions of the roads. For example, from 2014 to 2016, only two years after the introduction of Law No. 56 of 2014 (Delrio law) the state of maintenance of provincial roads begins to be shameful, since after the war, because no more money is invested on that type of arteries, the most frequent in our national territory. In this regard too, it is important to act on prevention and not just to enact laws concerning the phase of repression. As for the verification of the psychophysical conditions of the drivers, let's also ask ourselves the problem of the equipment available to the road police and other police when they do the checks; let's check how much litigation there is on the suitability of these instruments, which are often overcome by technology, they work very badly and therefore give rise to litigation, whose most trivial phase is the one for the less serious violations of the road code, which, however, also affects more serious cases, such as manslaughter or manslaughter. Some other colleagues then introduced the theme of raising RC car rates. This is not a scare, but an argument on which we will immediately confront, in a few weeks' time, because there will be the problem of cover for civil liability related to road accidents; especially for the most serious, those involving serious injuries, there will be the problem of an increase in these rates and this will result in a sure circumvention of that obligation by those who will not have the money to be able to pay that insurance premium; moreover, this phenomenon is already constantly increasing due to the economic crisis that afflicts several families. All these considerations suggest that the subject of street murder has been badly handled in these five parliamentary passages. Despite the fact that we were broadly in agreement on the idea of a new case of this kind, we had already demonstrated in previous parliamentary passages a certain non-sharing that had led us to an abstention vote; Today, with yet another vote of confidence, we can only refuse to vote in favour. The previous speakers have made the most well-founded points. Therefore, once again, I would like to point out that it was only a question of examining three amendments that was not merely a rhetorical exercise; in the face of three amendments, I wonder which Government and what majority might be afraid of losing ten minutes, half an hour or an hour in the debate for the sole approval or rejection of those amendments. It is a proof of weakness of a Government that, as we repeat, uses the vote of confidence to put under opposition, as if it were representative of a substantial majority of Italians, while when it is right it sails around a third of the consents of those same Italians. There is, therefore, a very biech logic that tends to assert this majority position in spite of numbers that say anything else. That is the only reason why we cannot accept this yet arrogant vote of confidence, even if we were to abstain on the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u116	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, I will not waste much time on this explanation of vote, except the time it takes to point out my deep political disappointment, but not just political disappointment, for what is happening today. I am speaking of political disappointment because on such an important subject we should try to involve Parliament in order to give the answer that not only in our country, but worldwide, everyone tries to give. Madam President, what is the mission that not only the legislator but everyone must take on this issue? Reduce the number of deaths, and don't find someone to blame. I am not saying this alone, but it was also said very clearly at the last meeting held in Brasilia by the World Health Organization, when someone pointed out that we still have 1.2 million deaths on the roads around the world today. And in our country we are not exempt: there are 3,000 deaths a year. Mr Giovanardi well remembered that in these years, and from here comes my bitterness, he has worked hard to get to the current numbers, even if they are still too high: 3,000 deaths a year means eight deaths a day; tonight, when we go to sleep, there will have been eight deaths on the streets of our country. There's still too many. However, we have gone from 8,000 to 3,000 deaths in a few years, and it is a success that has also been worked on in the political field, but not only in a serious way. Reduce everything today to a debate that will eventually lead to a vote of confidence seems really mad; it also means passing over who in recent years, not only us but many colleagues within this Chamber and also in the previous legislature both in the House and in the Senate, has helped to improve the quality of life in the sense of having fewer deaths on the streets: this is the mission that must distinguish us. But here we enter the field of hypocrisy. I also want to give an example: a few days ago I drove a car that has more than 400 horses and reaches in a very short time space 240 kilometers per hour. On the contrary, this car could go even faster, not in our own but in other countries of the European Community (because this is also possible). In our country the maximum speed allowed is 130 kilometers per hour on the highways: 130 kilometers per hour is the maximum speed that can be reached. So I ask a trivial question: why do we still continue to build cars that all go more than 130 kilometers per hour and are here to go crazy to reduce the dead? Is that a trivial question? I don't think so. At the base of everything there is something that does not work: we put the constraints, we do so many studies, but in the end we always get to the core, that is that the god money is the one that regulates the issues. Just remember two important facts about the millions and millions of deaths we have had in thirty years; hundreds of millions worldwide. The safety belts approved them in 1909, but they became mandatory for the first time in 1974 in France, after cars had killed more than in World War I and World War II together. ABS, which was a revolution for the safety of the machine, was patented by a Canadian in 1962-1963 but only in 2004 it became mandatory in our country on all the machines that came out of the production circuits, after hundreds of millions of deaths on consciences. The same applies to the compulsory helmet. Therefore, cars go to 200 per hour, we have security systems that could be placed on the market, but this is not done because they would affect the automotive market economy. Today, however, we are here to point out the culprit, to make a law to figure out who to blame. I would like to remind you that, in the case of deaths on the roads, there are always three competitors: the first is the driver, the second is the car and the third is the road. The driver must be correct in the driving of the car, the car must be efficient and the road must be in good condition so, when there is a dead, almost always there is the contest of three situations. I remind the entire Assembly that in our country if a car runs with smooth tires the owner gets only 84 euros fine. Statistics, however, say that most deaths due to certain accident dynamics are caused by smooth tyres. Smooth rubber is one of the biggest problems related to car safety, because it is useless to have a car with technologies like ABS when that little piece of rubber that keeps us attached to the road, twenty square centimetres for four wheels, is not efficient. Perhaps, in this case, it would be necessary to be more punctual and to raise much more awareness of who drives and who owns the car. But this is not the case. It is much easier to come to this House, to become champions of legality and to show deep respect, in particular, for the relatives of the victims for whom I have deep respect. Unfortunately, dear President, I believe that in this House, who indirectly and who less indirectly, everyone has had to shed some personal tears because they have lost a friend, if not a relative or someone in their family on the streets. And this, unfortunately, is part of our society. What is the policy response to this problem? A vote of confidence on a bill that, among other things - let me say this - has been dealt with politically by people in my opinion, largely incompetent - technically incompetent - and by people who make political speculation on this issue, from left to right, because they have no other arguments, because they do not know the subject and because they do not even study. But we're talking about millions of deaths. It is a question of devastating hypocrisy and I wonder with what serenity today, who must give the confidence of the Government on this bill, on such an important issue, will have the courage to pass before the bench of the Presidency. I am really shocked and I wonder in recent years what we have worked for and what we have produced in our Parliament and in our country: nothing! This is the bitter truth that we must see this evening. There will be a vote of confidence. Let me also say one thing, Mr President, and not to argue with colleagues in the House: every time we send a bill to the House of Deputies that has not been done too well, it makes us worse. We have seen this with the procurement code - I am talking about the issues covered by our Commission - on which we have sent the House a text on which we had even voted in favour and which has returned to us in a way that forced us to vote against because it has been very badly rethought. The same thing, punctually, happened with the provision today to our examination. We have produced a text that was already a little 'to the limit and it has returned to us worse than it could be worse. So, in conclusion, the text is misspelled, the issue is mistreated, plus put the vote of confidence, which is the icing on the cake. This government manages to bring home reforms on very important issues by politically imposing a vote of confidence. In this case, since they are dead, I wonder how we can pass before the Presidency this evening and give the government confidence. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Scibona.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u119	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, Mr Crosio's remarks are so common sense and peaceful that they should have been a prerequisite for discussion in the Commission and then in this House. We are in the embarrassing situation - I am very close to Mr Cucca, the draftsman of the bill, and to Senator Lumia, who followed the process - which, when the representative of the Government intervened to put trust, neither of them replied. However, Mr Lumia reassured us that there would be a debate in this House on the three famous amendments tabled. If the Government cuts the face of members of the majority so heavily, denouncing them on the substance and method, it is another anomaly which - I stress - happens in this Parliament. (15:18) (Follows YOUNG PEOPLE). As I have already said, I am aware of the reason why the three amendments were not put to the vote by secret ballot: the three amending proposals would have received the vote in favour of the vast majority of Members of this House, because they merely follow common sense rules. It is only with the question of confidence that the measure is imposed on Parliament. There are those who drive drunk (and we wanted to hit him), but there is a very high alcohol content even in those who write these laws. Whose daughter is this legislation? In the Senate Justice Commission, no one took the responsibility of saying they were in favour of the madness contained in the provision. I repeat, no one. Indeed, when the Senate responsibly voted, it amended the text, removing much of the madness contained in it. The problem is that we are really playing with people's lives and colleagues who will vote in favour of trust will take on a huge responsibility. I would particularly like to address the President of the Commission, who, being a great jurist, knows very well that the rules contained in the measure are an obnoxious legal act. When the wife goes out in the morning to take the children to school, a child goes to work or a brother leaves for a trip, all Italians are rightly concerned that something does not happen and that no one is the victim of a car accident. As soon as this law comes into force, there will be a double concern: the first is that your partner or friend is not the victim of a car accident, while the second is that, even if with all the presuppositions of prudence and not negligence, he does not cause an accident, because otherwise his life and that of the whole family would be ruined. In every car accident we program two designated victims: the victim of the accident and the one who, without guilt, provokes it. Let us think, for example, of the sleep stroke. If a person causes an accident due to a sleep strike, according to the government's provision, will he be in prison for eighteen years because he had to predict it? Sleep strokes are not predictable: they can happen because you are affected, because you are taking medicines or for a thousand other reasons. We built a system, lunatic in its expression, playing with people's lives. In the debate it was recalled that those who do not respect a stop stop and cause an accident are punished in a less serious way than those who inadvertently pass with the red light. Why? This is a question we asked in the Commission and we have tried to put to the rapporteur as well. The answer came from the benches of the majority: silence. But it is not a disrespectful silence of Parliament; it is that they do not know what to say. Because for a whole series of cases of violations of the code there is a certain penalty, then for the bump, the reversal of march, the traffic light and the counterhand there is a different penalty and then, for those who drive drunk, there is a different penalty still? But everyone goes to jail: the drunk goes to jail, the drug addict goes to jail, whoever is involved in a fatal accident goes to jail. I understand that if a loved one dies next to me in a fatal accident, I will be arrested if I find myself in one of the circumstances indicated by the measure and, even more so, if I stop to assist. This is the surreal, Mr. President. The House has been told that if someone stops to assist a person with a serious injury, they will not be arrested. But if you go to witness the person who has the serious injury and there is also a dead person, you are immediately arrested. In essence, when a person is involved in a road accident is able to know if he is going to attend or whether he is going to help those who have had the accident? Is he able to determine whether there is a dead person or not? In this way we favor the following reasoning: if you're drunk you better run away, they catch you the day after you're not drunk anymore. If instead you are involved in an accident and stop, instead of recognizing, as the previous law did, that you make a virtuous gesture and therefore you are not arrestable, they arrest you. What is the reason for this rule? Why was it introduced? Honestly, you don't understand. You do not understand the motivations that lead the order to treat people in this way, hitting them in a written way. Then in the end I said it and confirm it: the drug addict, the drunkard and the street pirate are benefited by this law, because it changes the social disvalue of such a hateful behavior, on which a whole campaign of resounding cases was rightly built, in which those who had done a massacre had not been properly punished. He will now be punished in the same way as the mother who brings the children home. In fact, the mother who takes the children home, if she takes a road against the hand and causes a car accident with two deaths, she takes 18 years in jail, just like the drunk and the drug addict. So somehow, on the penis scale, we did a discount and a favor to those who have antisocial behavior. Then he's gonna check it out, but it looks like this guy or this guy is gonna have a bigger sentence than a rapist or a robber. Are you kidding me? Do we realize the madness of the rules that we set in order? The Government's response to the Commission was: we must give a signal. I must say, with intellectual honesty, that Mr Lumia has said that the rules are quite precise. Now there is the wholesale penal code: they are quite precise. We have introduced wholesale rules. In the Commission I listened to the speeches of Senator Nitto Palma and Senator Caliendo, valuable magistrates who have cut the measure to pieces from a technical point of view. I wonder, then, what is a Commission doing about justice if it does not, at least from a technical point of view, refine the rules that come into force? If he doesn't do that, what does he do? I will conclude, Mr President, by reminding you of something else. My fellow senators, who today vote for confidence in this measure, vote against themselves, that is to say they vote for a measure that the Senate had amended with a free vote, when it was able to do so, eliminating precisely the most scandalous parts that will unfortunately enter into force in the coming weeks. So, everyone takes on their responsibilities. Those who vote on these rules assume the responsibility of ruining families and putting millions of people in a position to live not quietly at the moment when they put themselves in the car, but exempting those who have the driver. In this country, in fact, as usual those who have luck - or bad luck - or the possibility of having someone to accompany them are exempted from these rules; these rules apply, instead, to those who need to use the car. Our vote will therefore be a strong vote against the government's confidence. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u122	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, it is necessary that you make a couple of premises. We, as a Group, in this House voted for the reform of our Constitutional Charter because we were convinced that our country needed to modernise itself from the point of view of its architecture. We then voted for the government's confidence in the provision of civil unions because, convincedly, we were - and we are - aware that our country deserved to have, in its own legal system, a norm of civilization, a new institute, which saw the rights of millions of our fellow citizens fulfilled. We did this and we said that we would vote for confidence in that measure but that, from time to time, when the government had put the issue of trust, we would vote for it or not on the basis of our own assessment of the measure on which trust was placed. The press has not given sufficient credibility to these statements, because they are probably not used to listening to such words from a parliamentary group. We, even today, will demonstrate to those who are still unbelieving that our line is of coherence and is always the same: it is a line not treated at the tables, as usually happens, but assumed by all of us, alone, in the context of our assessments and our consciences. This measure has not been voted by us and comes to this House today at fifth reading. I probably understand the reasons why the government put trust: we are in fifth reading, we are discussing it and we have been discussing it in the Justice Committee for over a year and the measure could still return to the House. All this demonstrates what I have just said about the need for constitutional reform. That is why we voted for that reform: because we share the idea of avoiding, for the future, that to pass a law spend many years or months, with a palliation between the one and the other House. We have not voted for this measure and, therefore, today, consistently, we cannot agree with it. Senator Cucca, rapporteur for the measure, is well aware of the observations I have made repeatedly in the Commission. I simply like them and very succinctly summarize them. Senator Cucca, the fact that the reform has identified in this case autonomous crime, called road murder and personal road injuries, only some of the man-made conduct that can be attributed to those who, driving a vehicle, can cause the death or injury of people, has led to a very complex system of crimes and sanctions in which they coexist the old and the new regime, with unequal treatment that could result arbitrary and irrational. It is also, for obvious reasons, the new punitive system based on criteria of greater severity (severity which has been shared by us since the first moment of our work in the Commission), but that is not the point that we criticize for this measure. In fact, a greater severity was needed for those who, when driving in a drunken state or after taking psychotropic leave, caused death or serious injury to a citizen; it was right that he should be punished with a definitely more severe penalty. However, all this had to be arranged in a harmonic way. In fact, while the increase in penalty for the murder, in the event that it integrates the street murder, was achieved to the extent of quadruple (in the minimum) and less than double (in the maximum), the one for the injuries was even eight times high in the minimum and more than triple in the maximum. In addition, because of a special effect, such as that referred to in Article 589-b of our penal code, represented by the flight of the driver in the event of road murder, the penalty can be increased from one third to two thirds, thus reaching twenty years, thus overcoming the same maximum penalty as the crime of preterintentional murder, which, however, as is known to the technicians and lawyers in this House, has a completely different psychological substrate, being an aggressive and conscious and voluntary action, even if not intentionally aimed at causing death. The fact is that sometimes we get caught up in the mania of law-making under the emotional drive, and therefore there is a serious risk of acting in a way that is not sufficiently thoughtful and careful, creating disharmonies and system imbalances. The House of Deputies has intervened to correct these imbalances by amending the text approved by the Senate, with the simple provision of a new paragraph 8 in Article 189 of the Road Code, which, moreover, appropriately excluded the arrest in flagrante for the driver who stops and assists those who have suffered damage to the person, but only in the case of personal injuries. An adjustment that we, and I personally, have appreciated. But they were necessary, Senator Cucca, further attention and modifications, organic arrangements that were not realized and instead trust was placed. Therefore, as a parliamentary group, we cannot vote for confidence in a measure which we have not voted on in previous readings and which has not been properly corrected on the basis of our comments. If we did this, we would be right to that part of the press that wanted to read in our vote of confidence a sort of crutch and agreement between the Government, the majority and our Group. Our Group today demonstrates to anyone who has questioned our intellectual honesty, our awareness and our sense of responsibility, as legislators in this House, that it was in error. Today, Mr President, we will not vote for trust or participate in the vote. We share the need to severely sanction those who commit such crimes. But we must continue to criticize, as we have done for the past in previous readings, and denounce the disharmony and disorganicity of the text. We do this by not taking part in the vote. This must be seen by the government as a signal. In this Senate there is a parliamentary group that does not always give unconditional confidence to its government action, but that wants to participate, not already with the seats or with the seats, in the drafting of the measures, giving a contribution, scientific sometimes, political at other times, that is wise. If this contribution is accepted, we will still be able to vote for confidence on several and future occasions. Today, however, we abstain and do not participate in the vote on this measure. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u125	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, there are two categories of people on the road. People who commit offences irresponsiblely, that is, in the knowledge that the road code is not of interest to them. On the other hand, there are people who find themselves under unfortunate circumstances, as it can happen to everyone. Of course, it is not possible to liquidate the distraction in this way, especially if it has mortal or very serious outcomes. The problem is that we in this House have not even been able to highlight the difference between these two categories of people. So, to try to make it clear to those who follow us at this moment and maybe didn't follow the whole path what we will find before us, let's give some practical examples. A drunk driving, causing a serious accident, injury or death, if he kills someone having drunk a lot he will take from 8 to 12 years, if he drank less, he will take from 5 to 10 years. Instead, we are talking about a sober person, who is driving and who, for various reasons, provokes a murder, without having the responsibility of driving under inappropriate conditions. This goes against the same penalties as the second case I just mentioned: those of those who drank less. These two categories were also distinguished for precise constitutional reasons, in the sense that our Constitution constitutes a crime when there is a condition of awareness. All the more reason, in this second condition there is no awareness. There's the event, there's the gravity of the consequences, there's the chance of the event. This is not recognized by this law. Different responsibilities are not recognised. This is the first big mistake highlighted, but there are several mistakes in this law. There is an objective possibility of encouraging a rescue omission. There is a serious lack, because what no one here has remembered, but it is good that those who listen to us know, is that most of the serious accidents are due to the use of instruments and equipment. In this law, knowingly, despite being proposed, nothing has been done to discourage the use of mobile phones (sending messages and phone calls), which are today - this is acknowledged - perhaps the biggest cause of serious accidents. There is no such forecast in this law; we are therefore not working well to discourage the causes of serious road accidents but are doing another operation. Another mistake is the clumsy inclusion of the theme of car insurance, which has nothing to do with this flagrant intention to create in a clumsy way a culture of responsibility on the road, which does not correspond at all to the responsibility of the driver of a vehicle (the medium could be someone else's and the problem of insurance would not pose itself). Many errors show that this law is demagogic. Mr Boschi's speech which comes and says that we have the code of the road and we can change it. It is tender because even at school these arguments would not be acceptable, let alone within a parliamentary House, which should have the presumption of making good laws that last as long as possible and have the greatest possible effectiveness. This statement, then made by a government representative who deals with relations with Parliament, really seems to be a pathetic justification. It is as if it were said: we know that it is not good, but we will still have the opportunity to correct it. Moreover, if it is understandable the emotion with which this law has been carried out as it would serve to give answers to the families of the victims of the road, it is also true that unfortunately these families, as is now happening to many Italians, will realize that this law does not give true answers. The law satisfies an immediate need for consideration, entirely legitimate, but being done badly will not give satisfaction; it will not solve the problem and will probably create a further interpretative difficulty for the judges (and how many times we have heard that justice is in trouble). Once again, all the objectives of transversal common sense have been fully consumed in the burning of parliamentary democracy; it is not clear why the latter should be annulled in favour of a government which presumes that it is more capable of making laws than citizens elected by its own task. At this point another reflection is required: this Government puts on its chest the medal of efficiency. The discourse we made before is the most evident sign that there is an awareness of the non-achievement of the objective of efficiency. If we say that the law, all in all, is not a great deal but we will change it to another measure, we are already admitting that even when we use a legislative faculty we are not sure of its efficiency and, in fact, there is little efficiency. The Commission should do its job and demonstrate its efficiency there. With regard to prevention, it has happened to me over and over again in this House and in the Commission, in the course of the debate on this measure, to call the Fund against night crime. It is a fund established in 2007, the budget chapter of which was established only in 2010 and only from 2011 appear the figures in the state budget. It is a fund to which the Ministers of Transport, the Interior and Education should send regular reports to Parliament. Reports have not been seen, so I would urge the Commission to learn to do its job better and to give Parliament the tools it needs and which are guaranteed by law. It is a fund whose transparency on expenditure has always been enveloped by the most complete fog. Perhaps now something will move, we hope, at least for the involvement of the parliamentary party and certainly not for the operation and efficiency of the government. This whole situation is once again resolved by a matter of trust which, as has already been mentioned, puts Parliament in a position to not even intervene in the improvement or sharing of what has been done in a House, and which has been badly done, by secret vote and with a more political and demonstrative objective. Perfect: if the goal has been achieved, then let's try to fix that aspect too. No, we in this House are police stations. What is becoming increasingly evident today is that someone has made a constitutional bill, if it has been approved by blows, on the right and on the left - even with so many naiveties on the part of the right and the left - but in reality it is already experimenting with it: in fact we are in the House that, perhaps, between the two is the least unconstitutional, at least in reflecting the will of the electorate, but we are commissioners and we are paralyzed by the Government. What's there to do? The endless appeals made to the political forces that support the majority have fallen into the void. The opposition, a little scattered, is not able to be understood, because of an inability, a non-will or the impossibility of actually applying the Rules of Procedure: the opposition, therefore, does not know how to do its job. What do we have left? We still have an appeal to the President of the Republic, if not for such a law, at least to say a word so that the popular will that has brought us here also allows us to make laws that can at least be more lasting and shared than has been so far. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u128	D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am speaking only on one side of the complex bill in our examination, convinced as I am that in the explanation of vote an analytical illustration is not possible, which takes into account all the reasons for the manifestation of a vote which, in this case, will be in favour of approval. I have to highlight some aspects that are extremely positive about the bill. I would like to point out, in connection with what was said in the general debate preceding the explanations of vote, that the use of narcotics or alcoholic substances is a voluntary matter for those who then take the lead. The voluntary fact determines a subjective element or, better said, is supported by a subjective element that we cannot insist on considering only manslaughter, but rather intermediate between the dole and the guilt, as it results from a whole series of regulatory positions of the French, Spanish and, above all, the English legislation, which has long created the subjective category of recklessness, as a demonstration of a level of indifference, if not of contempt, for the interests of the community, which manifests itself in a particularly striking way, so much so that we would not be mistaken if we defined this level of recklessness as something that is placed at the border with the eventual dole. There is even a certain resemblance to that initial meaning, I must say a little crude, of the eventual malice, which identified it with the acceptance of a generic risk. If we want to be realistic, who is driving a car under these conditions, it is clear that he accepts a risk, because not only are the effects resulting from the ingestion of these substances known, but also the consequences frequently associated with the driving of a vehicle by a person who has voluntarily placed himself in the condition that he considers the norm. On the other hand, in this case we must not neglect to consider that, unlike the general category of the crime of accident, the violation of the precautionary rule itself constitutes an offence, so much so that Articles 186, 186- bis and 187 of the road code sanction these conducts regardless of whether an event occurred as a result of their implementation. We therefore have a high level of objective gravity, because the violation of the precautionary rule, which normally without the event is indifferent to criminal law, here even constitutes an independent crime and it is clear that the intervention of an event related to the violation of a precautionary rule that constitutes itself a crime cannot constitute a fact that can be superimposed on all those events determined by precautionary rules the violation of which does not receive from criminal law a particular consideration in terms of its legal qualification. Since it seems to me that the circumstance (but I apologise if I was mistaken in my assessment) was not the subject of consideration during the general discussion, I must also say that it is not sufficient that the event has been produced because of the voluntary violation of the precautionary rule; it also needs to be caused by a manslaughter behaviour, so much so that in the text there is an inscription - obviously incidentally understood between two commas - consisting of the expression "guilty." I would like to say that if this event were to be attributed only on the basis of the violation of the precautionary rule which already in itself prohibits certain people from driving in a state of astonishment or drunkenness, some of the criticisms that I have heard widely put forward in the Senate Chamber would be justified. However, the truth is that it is not only necessary for the precautionary rule to be violated, and therefore that some voluntarily accept the risk of the consequences of a driving carried out in a state of drunkenness or stupefaction, but also that it has made a maneuver which in itself deserves censorship on the level of the generalist categories of guilt (imprudence, imprudence or negligence). In this case, therefore, we have a complex case: not only violation of precautionary rules that constitute per se criminality with the acceptance of an obvious risk, moreover, derived from the notoriety of events of this kind, from rules of experience that tell anyone that it is not possible to drive in this condition; moreover, however, the incision "by fault" which I referred to draws attention to the fact that a person who had driven a car in conditions of drunkenness or stupefaction, but also has not made a wrong maneuver, censorable according to the criteria of a regulatory or general assessment typical of the impositions of manslaughter, would obviously be free from guilt, because it could prove that that event was in any case inevitable and not determined by fault. As a result of these considerations (as long as the minutes available are not to be used all of them and necessarily when it has been thought - wrongly or rightly - to say the things that were needed), I would like to point out that if on the preventive function of the penalty there is someone here among us - but also outside - able to determine how much a crime decreases due to a certain amount of increase in sanctions, this person would deserve a medal, because he would be capable of extraordinary predictions: we would be at the limit of prophecy. However, there is no doubt that the deterrent effect that we must - albeit in a generalist way - recognise sanctions increases works in this case precisely because the basic precautionary rule violated - you must not take alcohol, you must not take narcotics before leading to driving - works because disobedience is voluntary. On the other hand, if it were a merely manslaughter violation, it is clear that the rebuke increased from the point of view of sanctioning would work in a very small way, i.e. the agent should in a certain sense represent the risks associated with certain imprudent conducts. But here we have a violation of the basic rule that is voluntary: when certain alcoholic or narcotic substances do so voluntarily, and then here there is, albeit residually (I have the clarity and consistency to say it), the possibility that the sanctioning increase actually has a deterrent effect. With these premises, which are partial as I had allowed myself to say in the opening phase, I announce the favorable vote of the People's Area Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u131	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, we can give the ferocious news: Italy is no longer, at least momentarily, a parliamentary Republic, a parliamentary democracy, because the prerogatives typical of the Western liberal states, of which we still believe we must be part, are temporarily suspended because of the ill-considered abuse of the instrument of the question of trust. Only in these last two weeks have we seen the Government put twice the question of trust: last week on the maxi amendment of the Government - even the unacceptable one - in the unfortunate affair that characterized the parliamentary process of the bill on civil unions; Today, paradoxically, in the face of a bill which is also of parliamentary origin. This is also something that must be pointed out and stigmatized: we are not talking about legislative measures of strict political direction, for which the government can legitimately, within the limits of permission, use the instrument of trust; here we are talking, both last week and in the case of the crime of so-called road murder, of legislative measures coming once and for all from Parliament. Once again, the instrument of trust is imposed to strangle the debate and to drown the typical function of Parliament in a total zero, but with the peculiar characteristic of being faced with it, not already a number of amendments that can suggest an obstructive attitude on the part of the oppositions, since, as is well known to us, we are talking about three amendments. Knowing then that the question of trust is not an instrument provided for in the Constitution but that it is provided for in the Regulations of the two Chambers, and if the ratio of the institute - they teach us - is to be able to compact the parliamentary majority that supports the Government or to avoid obstructionism, excluding the second case (because there is no obstructionism since we are talking about three amendments), I believe that we can not even talk about the desire to compact the majority but they are attempts that aim to try to constitute a majority, which obviously there is not. This is something I really think we should take note of. I believe that these screams of pain that come from virtually all the oppositions in this House must be heard by the Quirinale, because we do not get out of here. If the abuse of the instrument of trust cannot or does not want to be filtered or blocked by the presidency of the Senate, which probably could not do so much, then it is really necessary that the President of the Republic Mattarella intervenes with interventions of moral suasion or of any other kind, because this gozzo is evidently involving an authoritarian drift that seems to suggest what could not possibly be the profile of this country from here to a few years, if constitutional reforms were to pass. We are testing it here today, but I believe that the parliamentarians of the same majority are also testing it, both on the occasion that saw us engaged last week with the vote of confidence on civil unions, also compressing the freedom of conscience that President Renzi had granted to his parliamentarians with reference to the famous article 5 on the adoption of the partner's son is in today's case. So it is good that all Italian universities know that all the constitutional law manuals have suddenly aged: Italy is no longer, at least for the time being, a parliamentary Republic. Someone needs to be fully aware of this and intervene: let him be the President of the Republic because I do not see who else can guarantee the autonomy of Parliament and the normal process of work. Perhaps we should take advantage of the presence here in Rome of the Tibetan Lama to look for some extra-parliamentary intervention that can protect the reasonableness of our work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, we too, like probably other opposition forces, are forced not to be able to make our contribution and to not be able to participate in the vote; exactly a replay of what happened last week (and we hope that this time the President of the Council does not mean that he put trust because of the triggers, even if we would not be surprised at anything). Apart from the polemics, which leave the time they find, we would have voted in favour of this text, although perfectly aware of the many critical issues of the same, many of which have already been mentioned here: on the one hand an perhaps excessive severity in the penal legislation that concerns not only the drunken conducts or under the effect of drugs but also the violations of some articles of the code of the road that probably, with edittal windows ranging from eight to twelve years in the case of the death of a driver to the five to ten years in the case of specific violations of some rules of the code of the road, can put in trouble or ruin the lives of the classic mothers or of the classic fathers of the family, that because of an inattentive attention - I mean the blame that can strike each one of us for the distraction of a moment - they can see their destinies marked by criminal procedures that, however, they conclude, leave the mark. Then there would also be something to say, perhaps it has already been said, but I would like to remind you that from these edittal windows, which we as a Parliamentary Group have felt we want to approve, are sanctions of a particular severity and we would not like to have one tomorrow, perhaps listening to the chronicle of yet another case of sexual violence or even of sexual violence against the under 14 years old and having to comment on inauspicious episodes of this kind, we realize that the sanctions, in those cases, are equal or even inferior to those of a street murder caused by fault but not by malice, therefore not respecting the rules of the road code or those of normal prudence. All this may have deserved further reflection but we would have been willing to pass on these considerations in order to help give a strong signal of which the country, and not only the families of the victims of the road, needs and waits for years, that is a discipline also, but not only, of sanction type that can reduce the number of deaths due to road traffic. Today, however, perhaps no one has remembered another criticality that, paradoxically, is exactly opposite to excessive severity. We remember, in fact, that in the text modified at first reading by the Chamber, with the insertion of the first paragraph and keeping in mind that in the concrete case, in the case of a contest of guilt in the cause of the sin (and I remember that this happens percentually in a very high number of cases) also what today is the ordinary sanction discipline of the road murders, let's call them so, that is of the manslaughters for violation of the code of the road - which provides for an edittal window from two to six years - the judge can reduce the sentence in concrete paid up to half. So we are talking about the possibility that, even in the face of such a relatively small edittal penalty (two years), you can start even for a year and then benefit from all the discounts provided by the procedural-penalist legislation in case of a short plea and judgment. So this bill is so critical that on the one hand, perhaps it hits with the whip too violently and on the other, paradoxically, it risks making the next criminal sanctions - and this would certainly also apply to all the ongoing proceedings - for road murders not caused by the state of drunkenness or in violation of particular rules of the road code even lower than those hitherto envisaged. For all these considerations, the 5 Star Movement will not vote for trust, as it has always done on the occasion of the previous questions of trust posed by the Government. We hope, however, that if, as is likely, this measure will come into force, a great communication campaign will be promoted in the media, perhaps even by the Presidency of the Council through a campaign of Advanced Advertising. It is in fact important to communicate that the law, like it or not, is wrong in some parts or does not come into force anyway and that we need to have the utmost awareness of its severity and the need to respect the famous motto: Drink or drive. Let's hope that the measure can at least be useful to record a few fewer victims on the streets. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u134	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with the Berlusconi Forza Italia Government, she has intervened in this matter, proposing the introduction of new cases of manslaughter with regard to road murder, injury and violation of the rules of the road code. We are faced with a fact that deserves our attention. Is there a need for intervention? Yes. Is there a need to increase the defence of victims? Of course. However, as we have already said on the occasion of previous occasions of examination, the measure intervenes with the sole expectation of an increase in penalties, measured and not consistent with the system, so as to run the risk of incurring the vice of unreasonableness several times denounced by the Constitutional Court. The bill therefore responds to a completely wrong logic, according to which the penalties are increased so that the crime no longer occurs. However, that is not the case. The rapporteur and the representative of the government know better than I do that since we have raised the penalties for the crime of feminicide, the facts of crime have increased and therefore it is absolutely not true that there is a correspondence between increased penalties and reduced crime. Mr. Representative of the Government, the second aspect I want to focus on is the abolition of any opportunity to discuss. I cannot understand: my Group will not vote for confidence for reasons not only of merit but also of method. During the first year of university, when we studied constitutional law and public law, I was taught that when the government raises the question of trust, it does so on a political issue, a question that identifies its position. Since the measure under consideration has already been voted in its other parts by the two branches of Parliament, we are here to deal with one single issue: I am referring to the amendment included in the Chamber of Deputies thanks to the secret vote (finally the Members of Parliament were able to assess, free from any conditioning, the correctness of a rule). The House has correctly inserted a sacrosanct principle: if by adventure a fact occurs in the absence of a will to produce a car accident and I get out of the car to bring rescue to the victims - and how many times the first intervention can also be decisive in order to avoid the death of a person - and at the same time, I give all my cooperation to the police for the reconstruction of the facts, the amendment voted to the House says that in that case the arrest in flagrante does not apply. However, in the Chamber they limited this case to injury; how do I know if the person I hit died or was injured, even if it is serious? I am then induced to run away and, in that case, also to free myself of the possibility of being identified as the author of the fact. We had then tabled an amendment which was consistent. The fact of going down and providing help is an obligation not only legal, but also moral, but you make it impractical, because, if I go down and that is dead, I must be arrested in flagrante, even if I have lent my help and even if I have given all my collaboration to the police. I see that Mr Gentile is here, and I would like to ask him a question. Trust builds on something that identifies the government's political line. Yet this amendment was voted by the House with the contrary opinion of the Government; now the Senate, on that text on which an opinion had been expressed contrary by the Government, is placed trust as if it were an identification of a political position of the Government itself. This is completely wrong and is contrary to any logic of the matter of trust. What confidence is this when the Government gave an opinion against the House and the House voted on the amendment with the secret vote? However, come here and ask for confidence by keeping a technical error standing. My question is then: is it so difficult to correct the error and immediately put trust in the House, so that the provision is finally approved? The rapporteur knows better than I that in the Femicide Act we have highlighted, in agreement with all the parliamentary groups, four errors in criminal law; almost two years have passed and no correction has yet been made. Again, you tell us that you will then make the correction. But do you realize what will happen during the months or period when the correction has not yet been made? We will have given a precise indication to people: think about it before you get out of the car. Instead, we should help and encourage people to do this. The norm is not only punishment, but also a model of behavior; the norm is also an indication of what is the correct behavior from a general point of view. I also understand the skill of the President of the D'Ascola Justice Commission, who has highlighted some fundamental aspects of the norm and has glissed on some of the aspects less consistent with that same assessment of non-intentionality, which, however, in the assumption of amazing substance or alcohol, also leads to the need for a greater sanction, for what we could call a predictability of the event (even if we are far from the predictability of the event, because it always remains a manslaughter). The basic problem is that this law, on the other hand, has some aspects that are quite abhorrent. What consistency does it have to say that if, hypothetically, they are driving a car without insurance (what does it have to do with the conduct of violation of the rules of the road code?) is there an assault, a minimum sentence of five years? This is an abnormal situation. I do not now want to discuss the rules that have already been voted on by the two branches of Parliament; patience, but at least in this, which was a sacrosanct rule and which responded to a general principle of our legal system, do not tell us: We put trust in it. Probably now they have become accustomed to an enlargement of the majority, which is sometimes given by the favorable vote of AL-A or by the non participation in the vote; They have now become accustomed to this desire to impose their own will, this time making a mistake. The mistake is to force us to vote on a rule that you yourself said was wrong and that you were against. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u137	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every year, as has been said in various speeches, there are real killings on the roads: 3,000 deaths a year. Only in the first six months of 2015, 85,000 accidents with injuries to people, 1,596 deaths, 119,000 injuries; massacres that wipe out many lives, often young people, children, mothers, in many cases overwhelmed with their children. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is not about emergingism. That is why it is wrong to trivialise Parliament's intervention and to impose the question of trust on the Government. That is why we must not raise dusts and unleash fears in normal drivers, who have nothing to fear from the regulatory apparatus that we produce with the approval of this law. Of course, we must intervene with a systemic and integrated approach: very much in agreement. The government hasn't found itself unprepared. Minister Boschi has made it clear that this systemic and integrated approach is not only a legitimate solicitation that Parliament, unitedly, makes towards the Government, but it is a choice that the Government makes with targeted actions, culturally, because it is convinced that the behaviour of Italian drivers must be corrected, starting from a road education that is already having positive results in our school system and that today it is involving thousands and thousands of children, young people and young people. A systemic approach that intervenes on preventive controls, increasing them. I take advantage of this, as the rapporteur has done several times, in order to thank the Forces of Order who act on the road, who work every day of the year, even when many Italians are in the period of vacation; indeed, in those moments the controls increase and often - we must recognize it - by means a little more scarce, with difficulties of staffing. We must thank the Forces of Order for their preventive control and exercise, and we are ready to support even more, better organized, efforts in this direction. Thus, the integrated approach must of course include an adaptation of the road system, of asphalt, of the infrastructure of a modern road; so, always in this integrated approach, car manufacturers must be increasingly called to their responsibility, with the characteristics and safety standards to be placed within the production. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us not hide: in this integrated approach, there must also be a review of criminal conduct. Yes, even on the penal code, with the new prediction of the crime of street murder and personal road injuries, we need to intervene. Both offences - I would remind my colleagues - are punished, in this case, by guilt. The traditional institution of guilt had now become a shield to guarantee very serious impunity, as has been documented several times by the press and associations of the victims of the road. The case of negligence, imprudence and imprudence has proved inadequate in the course of the years to intervene and to affect this type of conduct. It remains the basis of the dole, as the President has explained well, and asks motorists and drivers to have a high level of responsibility, because the events that occur as a result of some conducts that are sanctioned because of guilt can cause irreparable damage, such as the end of human life, as serious and serious injuries in the most precious good we have, which is the physical integrity of people. That is why no fear, no intervention outside the system: it is with a gradation of the penalties that you are able to intervene and that you go in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, it is expected for the crime of street murder, referred to in the new article 589- bis of the penal code, a two to seven-year imprisonment, referring to anyone who causes the death of a person who violates the rule on traffic regulations. It is punished with the sentence of imprisonment from eight to twelve years anyone who causes, by fault, the death of a person, placing himself at the wheel of a motor vehicle in a state of drunkenness, with a clear alcohol content that exceeds 1.5 grams per litre, or psychophysical alteration resulting from the intake of narcotic substances. It must also be put to prison, from eight to twelve years, who causes the death of a person in the professional activity of transport of persons or things, always being in a state of drunkenness, with a alcohol content that must necessarily fall here and as the rapporteur has explained well, drops the tolerance limit from 1.5 to 0.8 grams per litre. Moreover, in the gradation of the penalties there is the imprisonment from five to ten years for anyone causing the death of a person by driving a motor vehicle in alcoholic drunken state with alcohol content between 0.8 and 1.5 grams per litre. The same penalty also applies to those who cause the death of a person by exceeding certain speed limits, and in any case proceeding at a speed, in the urban center, not less than 70 kilometers per hour, and, in the extra-urban roads, at a speed of at least fifty kilometers per hour than the maximum permitted, crossing an intersection with the traffic light placed at the red, circulating counterhand, following maneuver of reversal of the direction of travel in proximity or correspondence of intersections, curves or bumps or as a result of overtaking. In short, ladies and gentlemen, in our country we want to make it clear that the road code is not a advice, it is not a minor code. The road code is a serious regulatory reality that needs to be known and respected, whose reform will be an element that will qualify and complement the strategy of combating the conducts that produce deaths and serious or serious injuries. The work on the code of the road, here in the Senate, is at an advanced stage and it will be important to find ourselves prepared for this appointment in the Chamber, in order to launch another important instrument of intervention that will always go in the same direction. In Europe, ladies and gentlemen, you know that many countries have already intervened without creating a scandal; no one has torn his clothes or found the resistance that we are finding here in our country. Colleagues, let us not hide that we are already at the fifth reading: Senate, House, Senate, House and more Senate. In this case, that vicious circle that has entered the shuttle system can only produce one result: little credibility on the part of Parliament. That is why it is good to vote and decide. It is good for the government to intervene and to make it clear that some behavior can no longer be tolerated, as can the pirates of the road, who strike, cause mourning and leave. This kind of conduct which, as you will recall, created a very disturbing, worrying and dramatic social alarm, today, with the rules that we have established, is no longer permitted. We must not trivialize or exploit, but we must have a serious, shared and open approach that we must all choose, because we are all called to this responsibility. The vote of confidence, ladies and gentlemen, qualifies government action. This is one of those few votes of confidence of which, both those who vote in favour and those who vote against, should appreciate the choice because, ladies and gentlemen, as the associations of the victims of the road know, too much time has been wasted. We have not been able to intervene systematically, even with a decision-making level that makes time a valuable resource of democracy. The government has listened, the government has accompanied. Today the government breaks into parliamentary work, says enough to play the shuttle and calls us all to our responsibilities. Mr President, the Democratic Party assumes its responsibilities and will vote for the government's confidence in this important measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u138	Colleagues, having the Conference of Leaders set at 5 p.m. the first call, the sitting is suspended and will resume at the appointed time. (The sitting was suspended at 4.28 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u139	I would like to point out the vote on the single article of the bill No. 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-D, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Serra is drawn by lot.) They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Pinotti, Puglisi, Pagliari, Gentile and Gianluca Rossi. I invite the Senator Secretary to register his vote. I now invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Serra. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. [[Commentaries from the M5S and LN-Aut Groups at the time of the expression of Senator Simeoni's vote]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, what's the problem? Let's call her in silence. If you want to convince anyone who has to vote and who doesn't, do it by other means, not by screaming. [[At the time of the expression of Senator Barani's vote there were ironic applauses from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] Silence, we don't hear the expression of the vote. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Toritori, Astorre Battista, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Chivaroli, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Di Biagio, Filippi, Fincchiaro, Fining, Fornaaro, Esposito Stefano Fabbari, Favero, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Finchiero, Finnaro, Fissori, Fornaaro, Fiberino, Franchino, Franchino, Franchino, Franchino, Franchi, Franchi, Franzio, Franzio, Franzio, Franno, Franco, Franno, Franno, Franzio, Franzio, Franzio, Franzio, Franzio, Franzio, Franzio, Franzio The senators replied: Rossi Maurizio Giuseppe, Simeoni, Stefano. The senators abstain: Amoruso, Auricchio, Azzollini Barani D'Anna Iurlaro Langella, Longo Eva Mastrangeli, Mazzoni Pagnoncelli, Piccinelli Repetti, Ruvolo Verdini. We note that Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, although he is present in the Chamber, does not take part in the vote. I declare the vote closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u140	We greet the students, the students and the teachers, who have had a lot of fun, of the Istituto comprensivo "Gino Menconi" of Avenza, in the province of Massa Carrara. [[Applause]] I think they were able to follow this voting show with fun. There are also the pupils and students of the institute "Zaccaria" in Milan, which we greet. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u141	I now invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-D, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 169 Senators voting 167 Majority 84 Favourites 149 Absent 15 Contrars 3]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] All amendments and agendas submitted to the draft law are therefore withdrawn or precluded. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). That's right. 149!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u144	D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). As President of the Commission, I would like to ask that the examination of the draft law on the reform of the honorary judiciary be postponed until tomorrow morning to give rise to the report by Senator Cucca, who has taken part in the work from this morning until now. An update would perhaps be appropriate for better preparation of the report and introduction to work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u145	As there are no comments, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u148	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens, it has been a short time since the COP21 conference in Paris, where we were talking about topics that are obviously not of interest to you, since the topic was only the climate of the planet. On that occasion Italy played its part in declaring that two degrees were too low a goal, it had to be raised and moved to 1.5 degrees, as climate change is no longer a hypothesis but a certainty. In words, Italy said that we will do better than others, that we want to do more. That's in words. Since we know that in order to defuse this terrible threat we must decarbonize, that is, move from the use of fossil fuels to renewable sources and energy efficiency, in fact we have done the exact opposite, that is to say we continue to change the rules of the game in progress and casually we always do it to the detriment of energy efficiency and renewable energy. On the one hand, Germany continues to encourage these sectors and even stimulates accumulations, thus allowing the circle to be closed; on the other hand, the United States has also decided to continue to give incentives after a first tranche of subsidies for renewable energy. Instead, we eliminate renewables, because they bother fossil sources. For thousands of companies that could put a plant on their own roof we eliminate the possibility of self-producing and consuming the energy produced, because this would bother fossil sources. Mr President, what I have in hand (you can't see it from there, but I show it to be in favour of the cameras) is an announcement about Solarexpo, the largest national fair that for seventeen years in Italy has shown the flagship of energy efficiency, solar, smart grid, new technologies of the future that in other countries are driving and creating thousands of jobs. Well, this year this fair will not take place, because the operators are mouthing, they are dying, because in the last three years this government has destroyed a chain of excellence, while in the other countries this train goes very well. (At 6 p.m.) (Follow GIROTTO). I hear the majority say that ILVA is a big problem because there are 30,000 to 50,000 jobs at stake. It is true that this is a major problem, because there are tens of thousands of jobs, but ILVA is a factory that pollutes to death. Could the energy efficiency and renewables supply chain create tens of thousands of jobs, but it does not pollute and therefore is not a problem for you? Isn't it a problem that this chain is so exhausted that it can't even organize a trade fair after seventeen years in which at certain moments we also had the leadership? I therefore wonder where the majority, as well as speaking in words, and where Confindustria is. I am also sorry that our beautiful country of the sun has become as black as oil. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u149	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-584.ana.u150	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 3 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18:01.
