ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 11 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u6	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I should first of all like to note that there is a situation of incompatibility within this House with the monocratic positions. A chairman of a parliamentary group cannot be President of the Senate. I want to make that clear and clear. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]] Mr President, I am shocked at what happened yesterday. I did not speak yesterday in order not to disturb the work, but today I have to take up arguments already known to say that I did not agree to convene a Bureau to decide whether or not to dissolve a parliamentary group and then see reports from the press agencies that had already been decided. I'm bewildered by this. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]] I am also sorry that, when the same thing happened (because it has already happened) to a majority group, for bon ton was expected more than a month, while here in ten days, because it is the opposition, we send the Group to the macero. I didn't like your speech on sanctioning aspects. We have a Council of President and a Council of Rules of Procedure, and I welcome your work of investigating, investigating and collecting the statements of all the Boards of Rules of Procedure with respect to the absentees. I have the honour to have included the deduction of the daily allowance for those who do not take part in the votes in the 14th legislature. So, you're breaking through open doors with me. It seems to me, however, to be a populist measure, which tends to conceal the unpopular measure of declaring certain amendments admissible. If we want to do things seriously, we must make provision in our Rules of Procedure for sanctions against the pianists, both those who vote and those who vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]] Otherwise, these are just Manzoni's cries. New facts happened in this House yesterday. You denied me the floor, although you saw very well that I was asking to speak, saying that only the group leaders could speak and that Mr Maran could take the floor, precisely because his group leader had spoken. As my Parent Company intervened, but in order to withdraw the amendments, I would still have the right to intervene. After that, since it was useful for the majority, in the light of Senator Airola's statements, you decided that not only the Leaders should speak and that everyone should be able to speak, to the point of giving Senator Maran and whoever wanted to take it back, in order to buy time. That is not how things work, Mr President. Senator Centinario spoke yesterday saying that he would not withdraw, but that he had withdrawn 4,500 amendments. In the light of that fact, Senator Schfani has formally requested the convening of the Board for the Rules of Procedure for the assessment of eligibility. Then Senator Airola, who took note of the withdrawal of the 4,500 amendments, said that there had been a physiological number of amendments which allowed it to be examined and that, therefore, they would have said no to the superkangaroo. Mr President, you could have solved this issue not in two hours, but in five minutes, by applying the Rules of Procedure, which unfortunately has not been applied. You opened the session yesterday and said: I recall that during the afternoon sitting on 11 February the amendments and agendas submitted to Article 1 were presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion. Mr President, where did you put Article 96 on inadmissibility and inadmissibility? The first thing he had to do was to take the floor to list those amendments which the Presidency considered inadmissible and unacceptable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and CoR Groups]] In light of that, we wouldn't have thrown away the whole session yesterday. You should have given your opinion on the Marcucci amendment, which has been dealt with by a number of colleagues. When you talk about superkangaroo, you don't even know what you're talking about. The kangaroo is a technique of the Presidency that puts to the vote the common parts of several amendments, because, failing the first, everything else is rejected. This is not a kangaroo: it is a premissive amendment which, once adopted, prevents the voting of all others, which become impossible. What does that mean? This contrasts with Article 72 of the Constitution (which provides that the laws are voted on article by article, with final vote); it contrasts with Article 100 (2) of our Rules of Procedure, which provides that after the general discussion we will proceed to the examination of the amendments, article by article; it contrasts with the 102, paragraph 2, where it says - Senator Bianconi, if you let me also thank you - that the amendments are put to the vote starting from what most departs from the original text. The Marcucci amendment would have been placed at the 26th place as a distance from the original text, because that amendment is the photograph of the Cirinna bill: it is the same thing. It is intended only to prevent the possibility of voting on other amendments later. Mr President, without bringing into play, as Mr Compagna, Jeremy Bentham, did yesterday, there have been illustrious precedents throughout the world that fail this kind of procedure. The only precedent we have is in this legislature; therefore, nonsense has been made here on the so-called Esposito amendment on the electoral law (the only other precedent was the Villone amendment in the Commission in the referent, which is completely different). [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and GAL Groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and Senator Di Biagio.]] Mr President, we cannot prevent this Parliament from speaking, so I would urge you once again: either you declare the Marcucci amendment inadmissible, under your responsibility, because it prevents the debate, or you call the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - if God wills - even if I know that Senator Zanda is against it, and so we will not call it again. Senator Zanda, I remember the passage of the Gospel in which Jesus said to Peter: "Peter, before the rooster sings you will betray me three times." I have to say that never as on this occasion have I seen that passage again. [[Senator Tonini's comments.]] You said that the 4,500 amendments withdrawn from the League were not enough because there were another 150 that had the same effect as the Marcucci amendment. No, Senator Zanda, it's fake. Our premissive amendments were five. We were willing to withdraw those too; she also judged those who were in the matter to be premissive, but they would have determined the repeal of certain articles: lively God, Senator Zanda. You have a majority: if my amendment is rejected, it is predictable and planned, but then we also vote for everyone else. If yours is approved, nothing is flunked anymore. That there are possible traps in it? Would you like me to lay out your red carpet, Senator Zanda? [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and GAL Groups (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and Senator Bignami]] My colleague Compagna, with his usual verve, called them "calderolate" but these are not "calderolate"! If someone uses the premissives, it's clear that I'm going to put something in the premissive that could cause them problems. You, again yesterday, said that even if the super amendment had been adopted (I no longer call it kangaroo, I would deny myself) Marcucci, however, even if we had arrived at Article 5, then there would have been the possibility to vote on it, possibly with the secret vote. That is also false, because once - and I ask for the help of lawyers - the letter d) of the amendment Marcucci is approved, where it says "except that for the norms of the civil code not expressly mentioned in this law and for the provisions of Title II of the law of May 4, 1983, n. 184" if you do not put in Title IV, the adoption remains. Or in point (g): The current legislation on the dissolution of marriage and divorce shall apply to civil unions; or in point (f): The part of the civil union may apply for adoption of the minor child, including adoption of the other part of the union. When this is approved, any amendment contrary to this wording shall be declared inadmissible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC) and GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) Groups]] We are not making fun of this House. And - your goodness - we are told that a correct number of amendments would have been two hundred or three hundred! And no: the number of amendments does not determine it by the Holding Company of the majority party. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Groups]] and FI-PdL XVII). The number of correct secret votes ranges from 10 to 30: no, there is a Rules of Procedure. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). That's right. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Secret vows may be 1, 30, 300 or none, provided that the conditions are met. This should - and I put it on parole - be decided by the President and not by the Assembly, that is, by the Council for the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Groups]] , FI-PdL XVII and M5S). At this point I ask you to play open cards: you just pretended to play open cards and you showed up with the rigged deck. You have pretended - because I too participated in the negotiations - to negotiate with us, when even today - and I dare you to prove the opposite - the Democratic Party has the numbering of each amendment that has been maintained. At this moment I have no list of the amendments maintained or withdrawn by the Democratic Party; I have never received a list of the 150 traps that I would have fixed: otherwise I could have considered withdrawing some of them. It was a fake negotiation. It seems to me that at night (or during the day) it is or pretends to be dealing with so-called democratic Catholics; I say that it is pretending because yesterday I saw a MEP address our Senator Di Giorgi and Senators Lepri and Collina saying "I don't break my..." anymore. If any of us had said so in relation to a colleague, Parliament would have turned. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senator De Pietro]] I begin to conclude, Mr President, and then for a while I won't bother you anymore. After this, however, it turns out that the negotiation - the real one - obviously someone had done it with the representatives of the 5 Star Movement; but it seems obvious to me, because if someone today speaks of betrayal obviously an agreement will have been there. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Pepe.]] I can only thank the intellectual honesty of Mr Airola and his colleagues who voted accordingly when they said yesterday: what problem is there to vote with 200 secret votes, if there are 200 amendments to be voted on? Do you have a majority, even an enlarged majority, what is the problem? We come to the House and vote. Instead, once again we suspend and make a group leader (when we ask it we never do it, when Zanda asks it you do it soon afterwards). I would therefore ask you to withdraw the Marcucci amendment and then proceed with the group leader. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] Otherwise, we're still going in there with a few tricks going on. I wouldn't have... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, I would like 30 more seconds, please. Yesterday, Mr Zanda even asked for water because he couldn't take it anymore. I'm not asking for water, but at least don't take my word off.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u7	We'll get you water, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u8	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are talking about something important. Here we are not in front of the de facto couples, the gay unions; in front of that I would have voted no, I would have been against, but I would not have done more than so much caciara. In Articles 3 and 5 there is something else involved: there are children involved, who have nothing to do with these things. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, M5S, AP (NCD-UDC) and CoR Groups.]] I would not like us to arrive at the paradox - I say this with all the esteem I have towards the interested - of having a law written by an animalist and approved with the kangaroo. That would be the best. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u9	I invite you to conclude, Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u10	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). In fact, we would be facing not stepchild adoption, but stepkangaroo adoption, i.e. children on sale. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, M5S, AP (NCD-UDC) and CoR Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u13	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, many things have already been said by Senator Calderoli. If I didn't see it wrong, in yesterday's day Senator Marcucci, in full rudeness in the afternoon, wrote in a tweet that when the game gets tough, tough guys enter the field. I have the impression that this morning my colleague Marcucci should write in another tweet that when the game gets complicated, you have to use your head. I think that President Zanda's request for postponement is a consequence of the fact that this was not the way to proceed. Yesterday we were obliged to intervene even before the Government expressed its views, because we did not know what the path we were waiting for in this House could be; we did not know the admissibility of certain amendments, nor how many secret votes there would be, and we did not know how many amendments would have lapsed as a result of the adoption of the Marcucci amendment. We discussed it in the dark, but before opinions were given on the amendments because we wanted to prevent the debate from being choked. At this point, it seems to me that the result has been achieved. However, the question is not to postpone for 48 hours a debate which could take place in the same terms as yesterday afternoon. I hope that the 48-hour delay will be used to reopen a debate on the content of the measure, partly because many incorrect things have been said in this House, already reported by Senator Calderoli. However, I would like to focus on one of them. The famous amendments of the North League (those that Senator Zanda has defined, both in formal meetings, and in the Assembly, kangaroos or kangaroos) are not kangaroo amendments or children of kangaroos, but rather proposals with which they simply say - I say this because even the press must be able to distangle itself in the confusion of our discussion - that the law will enter into force after the reform of Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Constitution. It has already happened that the Assembly decided that the entry into force of a law would be put to another law, in that constitutional case. I would also remind you that the famous safeguard clause was introduced on Italicum with the indication of a date. It has already happened that the entry into force of a law has been postponed in relation to a time specified in the law itself. So these are not kangaroo amendments, but amending proposals which, of course, have a legitimate and perfectly acceptable parliamentary cunning, on which the part of the debate in this House is at stake. That's what we're talking about. I hope that you too, Mr President, will speak on the subject at the Conference of Group Leaders because we cannot have a meeting in the dark, where the only topic of discussion is the postponement of the debate by 48 hours (i.e. - I suppose - next Tuesday). It is right and it is mandatory - I say this to the majority, but above all to you, dear President - to enter into this matter, to understand whether the majority insists on proposing the Marcucci amendment again and to understand what arguments can be opened up. It is also necessary to have a better understanding of the subjects on which secret votes may be held (which are admissible in such a matter) and which amendments are deemed admissible, as well as the order of examination of them. In fact, we do not accept the order of treatment of the amendments as set out in the printed text. If the Conference of Leaders were then to reconsider everything we have been trying to talk about these days (and this morning seems to have been successful in the sense that, in any case, there has been a request for postponement from the majority) I hope that this is the right place to reopen discussions, even with the return to the Commission of the draft law itself, because it seems to me that it is the only possibility, at this point, that Parliament can afford to do so. Let us not close, Mr President, the Conference of Leaders, with a postponement of the examination of 48 hours, or 56, or 78, because it would be really limiting to our ability to deepen the content on which we have always insisted. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u16	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a premise on behalf of the Five Star Movement. The 5 Star Movement on the Cirinna bill, just for the deepest... [[Brusio]] I would ask my fellow Members to listen, although I understand that it is easier to use the votes to the right and to the left than to listen to the positions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The 5 Star Movement on the Cyrinna bill, precisely because of the deep conviction of the need for the recognition of human rights, has not produced - and I address everyone in this House - no amendments to the text of the bill. This means that for the 5 Star Movement the text is fine as it is. Understood? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So we don't accept exploitations that give us responsibilities that we don't have. Having said that, the 5 Star Movement has not agreed on any premissive amendments: and how could it agree on such amendments when we were the first, in order to guarantee democracy in this House, to rebel against amendments such as Esposito or Cociancich? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Democracy is not traded for rights. It exists and must be guaranteed by this House, by this Parliament, here and now, just when, at this time, the whole world is watching us, we are being watched because we are taking a small, very small step towards a law that can be historic. I repeat, rights cannot be traded for democracy. Parliamentary democracy exists and must be respected, but it must not be used with amendments that are ridiculous, with amendments that ridicule human law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It must be respected with serious amendments, with amendments that come into effect, with amendments that are capable of having Parliament discussed in a serious, coherent and respectful manner of all the sensitivities of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With regard to the postponement of the bill, I am surprised that Senator Zanda asks: the 5 Star Movement categorically is to not postpone the law. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The draft law is now being debated, discussed seriously and all those farcical, instrumentalizing amendments withdrawn, all those bigoted, Catholic, fake right-wing amendments and all the other amendments that go to cut and kangaroo the provision. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] May this Parliament have the dignity and consistency of addressing an important ethical issue, of recognising those rights which, to date, have... [[Brusio.]] Please, my colleagues, be quiet! Respect is also that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u17	Allow Senator Catalfo to complete his speech! Please, Senator Catalfo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u18	CATALFO (M5S). This Parliament once and for all shows that it is capable - Mr Grasso, I also appeal to you, in relation to the conduct of the whole House and the examination of the measure - of discussing this bill with the right dignity, in respect of human rights and those enshrined in the Constitution, which this House still does not want to deal with. And I'm talking about all rights: the rights of pensioners, since they are now affecting survivors' pensions, the rights of the poor... [[Live comments from Senator Bencini. Comments from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't talk about anything else, Senator Catalfo. Keep to the subject under discussion. (Exchange of jokes between Senator Bencini and Senators of the M5S Group). Quiet. Let me finish the surgery. CATALFO (M5S). I am now appealing to this House, I am appealing to the senators of the right... BENCINI (Misto-Idv). Give it to you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bencini, have the surgery done. CATALFO (M5S). I appeal to the senators of the right and to the senators of the left, to ask you to work with dignity, to avoid all the amendments that can be useless and all those that damage the dignity of the Italian citizens. I ask you to work hard and to bring this debate to an end here and now without delay. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. Exchange of jokes between Senators Bencini and Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u19	Bottic quaestors, I call you to order. Senator Bencini, I'm calling you back to order. I'm begging the assistants to step in. It is the Quaestors who must maintain order.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u20	[[Senators Questori De Poli and Malan go to the benches of Senators Bencini and Bottici.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You're the president! Wake up, Fat! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This certainly does not help the debate. We have given everyone the opportunity to speak and intervene at the right time. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Senator Santangelo, please help bring the order back to the House. [[Senator Bencini's comments to the Senators of the M5S Group]] Senator Bencini, I'm calling you back to order. MORONESE (M5S). Out with Bencini! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't know why microphones make a particular echo. Surgery also caused microphonic dystonia. It is clear that one Senator per Group can intervene in this debate. So, the groups choose who needs to speak. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). It is a variable rule, Mr President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If the debate is reopened, the right to speak is reopened, as was the case yesterday.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u23	Mr Repetti (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to be honest. Yesterday was a bad, terrible page of politics. Last night, on my way out of this House, I met desperate boys and girls; guys who realized that someone here in this House made political calculations prevail over an honest and transparent fight for rights. There are people who have been waiting for years for the provision under our scrutiny who follow us with trepidation and hope and have been disappointed once again, because what happened yesterday... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u24	Please, I'm asking you to be quiet. Anyone who has to speak should sit outside the Chamber; of course not anyone who has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u25	Mr Repetti (AL-A). Senator Giovanardi, I understand your quote. Please let me talk. I listened to her. What happened yesterday is very clear. The 5 Star Movement, born with the prerogative of being different from the old parties, has proved to embody the worst of the old politics. SANTANGELO (M5S). Are you talking? Mr Repetti (AL-A). He obeyed party Diktat by giving precedence to the political game, literally trampling on the hopes of all those people who await the recognition of their rights. That's the truth. The question of the procedural aspect was merely a pretext. President Calderoli, that's not true... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u26	Senator Repetti, please stop for a second. If there is no silence, the sitting shall be suspended.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u27	[[Brusio]] Senator, you can resume your intervention. Mr Repetti (AL-A). Mr Calderoli, it is not true that the Marcucci amendment is a photocopy of the Cirinna bill. It is not true that the debate was prevented. All I know is that yesterday I saw the 5 Star Movement vote together with the North League, the New Right Center, to those who declaredly wanted to bring down the law. [[Senator Crosio's comments.]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Shut up! Mr Repetti (AL-A). It is certainly legitimate, ladies and gentlemen, to make political calculations - they are legitimate instruments - but not about what concerns the rights and lives of people. This is the truth, even if it burns you. ENDRIZZI (M5S). It's the rule of transhumance! Mr Repetti (AL-A). That said, today is another day. I hope that many of us have reflected and reflected on the adoption of this draft law, which is important not only for those who have been discriminated against so far, but also for all of us. Therefore, on behalf of the AL-A Group, I agree with President Zanda's proposal to reflect at the Conference of Leaders. [[Ironic applause from Senator Centinario]] CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Thank you!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u29	You have the right to do so. I remember there was a senator for the group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u30	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I believe that the request for the convening of a Conference of Leaders can only make sense if we put a bit of order into our debate and our ideas. There are three different levels that we should consider. The first is what I would call institutional courtesy, and I say this not to give lessons to anyone - let alone to you, Mr President - but because I believe that this is a category of parliamentaryism on which Parliaments have stood. The second is that of the rules and the third is that of the principles and opinions of each of us. These three levels, Mr President, must remain distinct. Mr President, I was very impressed by what you said yesterday about the dissolution of the Conservative and Reformist Group. While it is true that an appointment, a meeting of the Presidency Council, had been set at a Conference of Leaders to consider this problem, and then this problem was resolved in the short term, after pressure from press agencies, without even informing the Heads of Group with whom an undertaking had been made, this is called institutional rudeness.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u31	I'm sorry, but I have to interrupt you, because you're starting from the wrong assumptions. You said, "If that's true," and then I have to tell you that what your reasoning is based on does not correspond to reality. AUGELLO (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Let him finish talking. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can go on, and I apologize for interrupting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u32	In fact, it is also part of the institutional courtesy of giving answers. I said correctly: "If it's true" These things were said in this House and were not contradicted yesterday.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u33	I gave answers yesterday. I apologize once again for interrupting you. I gave the answers, and maybe they weren't perceived. They'll be from the shorthand report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u34	Exactly. Mr President, the answers you gave did not make up for the doubts I had. I have so many flaws, but not that I can't understand. Mr President, having said that, you know perfectly well that in some cases, groups with nine or eight Members have resisted an entire parliamentary term. In the case in question, a forced force was then carried out which had to be healed. I would like to thank Mr Compagna for accepting our invitation and say that the same thing would have been done if the Group involved had had ideas contrary to our own. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] Maintaining a minimum of civilisation in this House is a common heritage. We remember the admonition that Voltaire gave us some time ago: I do not agree with you, but I will do anything to express your dissent. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Scilipoti Isgrò]] I would like this to be a common custom and the Presidency of this House should also take this into account. This is true of institutional courtesy. On the rules, I believe that I have put - perhaps in a somewhat professorly way, as Mr Calderoli told me, who has spoken today in a more free way - the problems in yesterday's speech. I said that a premissive amendment to Article 72 of our Constitution was a bitch. I tried to explain why. Today, Mr President, I am telling you in much simpler terms. Why does our Rules of Procedure require that the articles that make the summary come after and not before? Because you do not know the law, you cannot know what to summarize at the beginning and in this way, by force of things, you hinder the free amending activity of the senators, which is protected by Article 72 of the Constitution. That is why there are pages of doctrine and judgments of the Constitutional Court that tell all of us and you, in particular, to be careful of the legislative process because we are making serious mistakes. I want to resume Senator Zanda's surgery yesterday. If we had adopted the Marcucci amendment, which sculpts principles at the beginning of the law, and then the House had voted against Article 5, we would have had a law with a clear contradiction within it that would have made it illogical and irrational. This is why the more distant articles are voted before and those that summarize the law, if you can vote, vote later. It's not a random thing. It is a rule that protects the quality and rationality of our legislation and must do so especially when we are debating such matters. In this particular case, the rules also become something absolutely political. Mr President, on this, institutional courtesy, I would like answers from you. I would like you to deny me and tell me that everything I supported yesterday on Rule 72 and the Rules of Procedure is not true and that is why you put the Marcucci amendment to the vote first. President, I have not heard this so far. I come to the last point, that of principles. It is possible to distinguish the respect of the rules, which belong to all, from what each of us thinks and believes. It is not only possible: it is necessary. It's the basis of everything. That's why I don't understand, Senator Zanda, when you talk about someone who would turn his back on the Democratic Party. I'm so far away from colleagues in the Five Star Movement. I absolutely do not agree with the substance of the draft law, but the intervention they have made is not on the subject, but on the rules: they said that what happened once in this House, with the Esposito amendment, can no longer happen. And since we have fought on this, dear President Zanda, there is a problem. ZANDA (PD). We had your support. Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Then he had my support. President Zanda, also in this regard - and I believe that, because of the cordiality that exists between us, you can accept this reference - I tell you with sincerity that in yesterday's speech you reminded me of a step of Salvatore Satta, your fellow countryman, when you said that on the one hand there is PD, and on the other hand what the PD wants, and then there are all the others, who exist because there is room in the world. ZANDA (PD). I never said that. Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). The others are here because there's room in the world. ZANDA (PD). That's not true. Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). What's the difference, Senator Zanda? The Esposito amendment, which was certainly of this quality, dealt with a fact, namely that there were 50,000 opposition amendments. There was a very strong opposition from the House. You had to note that Senator Centinario, yesterday, went to the bench of the Presidency to announce the withdrawal of the 4,500 amendments tabled. It is a political fact to which you have not responded. He just said that there are exactly the same amendments as Senator Marcucci. But if we apply the rules - admitted and not allowed to exist, and Senator Calderoli is right about that, when he says that the amendments equal to the Marcucci amendment are five or at most six - as is unacceptable the Marcucci amendment, the amendments of the North League are also inadmissible. You should not be afraid of this and should not be afraid of it. If you respect the rules and you understand that one thing is the rules, another thing is the principles on which we divide, well, there are no jokes possible. That is why, Mr President, I repeat that the only way, the only direct way to remedy the formal defects of this law, would be to return the measure to the Commission, and that would also remedy the problems which were the subject of the application to the Court. This would be a passage for a fixed time on which commitments can be made. Then we come back to this House with a rapporteur and no more forcing. Otherwise, even if I think about it in an absolutely antithetical way compared to the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement (they are my opponents in the matter and I will clash with them), I think their proposal is the clearest: debate and vote immediately. Everyone compares with his own conscience, without all these tricks that serve only to cover internal divisions and to mix two floors that must remain separate: on the one hand the rules, on the other what we think, and the rules are of everyone. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL), FI-PdL XVII and AP (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u35	They asked both Senator Maurizio Romani and Senator Bignami for the Mixed Group to intervene, but only one Senator per Group can intervene. As you decide, I give the floor to someone else.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u38	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, first of all I agree with President Zanda's request to convene a group leader to consider whether the measure should be referred back to the Commission, in order to restore - in my view - a number of situations and reports, including political ones, along its path. First of all, I would like to make a premise. My party and my group have always given - and confirm - their willingness to this law, or to a law regulating civil unions, and therefore the coexistence of people of the same sex, which gives them rights and duties and allows them to enjoy acceptable life. We have always said this and we want to reiterate it in this House, which I consider to be the sacred place of national politics, because we want to contribute to legislative activity on this issue, because the country and the Italians are asking us to do so. In fact, the sensitivity of those Italians who in 2007, during the Prodi Government, were mainly opposed to that law defined DICO, which even excluded the discipline of the adoption of the partner's son, and was therefore more contained and moderate than the law that is now proposed to us, the law Cirinna. At that time, Mr President, in 2007, the Italians were against that proposal. We were told by the polls and we were told by Parliament itself, which did not find a solution. Today we are aware, and we are involved in it, of the process of change and, therefore, we will continue in this House not to deny a constructive contribution so that we can reach a final vote, hoping that we can even participate in a favourable vote. We didn't take obstructive attitudes. Yesterday we carried out a series of interventions - including myself - which posed a problem. I would like to insist now, since you are about to convene the Conference of Leaders - where President Zanda's proposal, which I share, is to be accepted - on the consideration of the use of the premissive amendments, particularly that of Mr Marcucci, by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, as well. I would like to reiterate one point, Mr President. This House has an amending and non-confirming function. Mr Marcucci's amendment, which must not be accepted because I think it very much, escapes the constitutional logic and the Rules of Procedure. It's a take or leave. It is helping to give the Assembly a drafting and non-referencing function. And it is not even a kangaroo, as Mr Calderoli said. The kangaroo is a rule applied by the Presidencies in the event that, when a principle is put to the vote and rejected, all sub-eminent proposals contrary to it are declared inadmissible. So, yesterday, we were faced with a scenario in which we had to put with conviction, firmness and also with politeness, the need for a deepening by the Junta - unless it wants to assume the President as a choice in the context of its discretion and responsibility - both on the Marcucci amendment, on which we await a response, and on the use of the premissive amendments during the parliamentary term that will be concluded within two years. Having said that, I believe that the postponement of the examination of the measure is useful for restoring a geometry more appropriate to the internal relations of the majority, to achieve a good legislative product on a sensitive topic, which is dear to us, and to find an understanding, although the argument is foreign to the themes of the Government, within the majority; a majority that has allowed until now to approve important laws and structural reforms for the nodal points of the Country; a majority that has resisted moments of difficulty and can act, on this occasion, as a lever to be able to activate a legislative process on a topic on which the Italians, by majority, ask us to intervene, and not, instead, on divisive themes such as stepchild adoption. This is the problem, this is the issue that we have raised and we continue to put it. We look with interest, appreciation and hope at the possible request for postponement that could be put at the Conference of the Leaders, because we welcome it as a positive point to relaunch a different legislative path than that put in place until last night. We claim our coherence with serenity and responsibility. Mr President, we have been consistent from the outset. We regret that the Commission could not hesitate to make a proposal to the House. It was everyone's responsibility, and it is not up to me to give individual Members licences of responsibility. We are sorry because we know that a legislative process without a rapporteur in this House slows down and complicates the decision-making process of the various groups. However, given the progress of things, which has not allowed the House a fruitful spectacle of shared decisions, we believe that a change of pace through a Conference of Leaders is to be greeted with interest and favor. We believe - given our responsibility and firmness in having raised issues, Mr President, deep and surgical on the use of the premissive amendments - that this is the right response to our initiative and to our behaviour in this House. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u41	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I have to say that the speech that started this morning has nothing different from what was interrupted last night - there have been no changes in position - and it will most likely be the same that we will hear in ten, fifteen, twenty days: the Marcucci amendment must return to the Commission; it is a kangaroo amendment; there are 2,500 kangaroos and 300 giraffes! But we want to get down to the substance of the concept: what are we doing here? We should make laws, and not think that this is divided by rights and democracy. I have heard that one thing is democracy, another is rights: it is pure madness. Democracy without rights is nothing: it is a simulacrum that practically preserves a corpse without freedom and without equality. We live in a country where we all struggle to reduce inequalities. We all have, in the health, humanitarian and social fields, the need to reduce inequalities. Let us be clear, then: is the civil union that must see two people of the same sex uniting in a relationship of love something we want or do not want? That is what we have to legislate on. For now it has been the judges (the Court of Strasbourg, the Court of Cassation, the Constitutional Court) who have told us that, since we are not in a position to legislate, they have replaced us, giving those people their right; a right which we, if we continue in this way, cannot guarantee. For months our debate has focused on stepchild adoption - let us be clear - and nothing has been said about the main ban, that is, what prevents homosexuals and non-coupled even to be considered as potential good parents. Words are of importance to us and we must give them importance. Until some time ago, adoption was meant to be a meeting between two worlds in a certain sense aliens among themselves: a child who was looking for parents and parents who were looking for a child, or children. On the one hand there was a need, that of the child, certified in his right to have a family; on the other hand, there was a dream, a project, a willingness. The adoption of the spouse's child is a matter of adoption in particular cases, and it has nothing to do with what I have said now: it is the recognition of an already made link, existing, rather than the search for a meeting or the realization of a project. You want to know what juvenile judges say? A child to grow up safely must breathe life with someone next door who can tell him not to fear, both by his behavior and by silence. Tell me, then: first the exclusive attention on stepchild adoption has become inflamed on other, that is, the potential link with the illegal practice in Italy of surrogate pregnancy. But this is completely instrumental and it is also intellectually dishonest to agitate it to block civil unions. It would be like wanting to abolish the possibility of stepchild adoption for all straight couples, because through this window can enter what our order forbids, that is the practice allowed in other countries of the uterus for rent; or, abolish adoptions because someone does traffic of minors. I believe, then, that it is essential at this time to know who wants to vote on this measure. Personally, since I started here, I want to vote for it and I want a right to be granted to all the people who are outside this House. And he's talking about a guy who brought in a bill against illegal organ trafficking and so, he's set up to defend the children himself, and I thank you for being voted by all of you. In order to demonstrate my will, I am ready, indeed I ask Senator Marcucci to add my signature to his amendment, because I am not afraid of any kangaroo, of any instrument that blocks something that we must do. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Bondi and Molinari senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u44	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, this is the poisonous fruit of the last years of our House's management. And I say this frankly, because I believe it is the plastic image of how the work in this House has been conducted. Failure to respect the rules has borne its fruit. Yesterday I felt almost an emotion when I heard Senator Zanda also call us back to a motion of affection, at the moment when he said that this is in practice the first time that the Senate gives birth to a law of its own initiative. In saying this, he has done nothing but certify the work of this Assembly, always forced to issue its verdicts with respect to the initiatives taken by the Government in this Chamber - I remember the now, I do not know if, 34 or 44 decrees-laws - has basically been exonerated every time of its powers. It is worth little remembering the previous Esposito rather than Cociancich. But the clarification on the point to which we have now arrived and on the meaning and respect of this institution comes once again from the intervention of Senator Zanda yesterday, on which I will make a request in relation to the meeting of the group leaders, Mr President. What did Senator Zanda give us at the time when, when he took the floor, he felt that there were no longer any conditions for continuing the debate in this House? There have been facts which are part of the normal dialectic of parliamentary confrontation. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups.]] But the normal dialectic of parliamentary confrontation no longer exists, because we are always subjected to the game of the Democratic Party, which exploits, and - let me say this, Mr President - these are criticisms that I address to your Presidency. Don't tell me too, as you replied to Senator Giovanardi, that my offences become medals against you. Don't answer me this: this is a free criticism addressed to your Presidency, because in three years you have never made, not once, a decision that was on the opposition side. Never! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Today we are also forced to attend the surrogate interventions of Senator Zanda, who by now personifies all the parties in this Senate, from President of the PD Group to President of the Senate, to President of the Oppositions when he convenes the meetings of the Presidents of the Oppositions. In short, Parliament does not work and the President emeritus of the Republic has peace when he invites us to work more. But we are mortified at our work. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups]] We cannot produce in this House, because it is now a possession of the Democratic Party. We take note of this. As everyone here expresses the hypocritical will - I repeat hypocritical - to continue to argue that they want this measure, let us see if that is the case. Mr President, I would therefore ask you for the first time to give the House the opportunity to vote on the continuation of the work. I repeat: have the House state whether or not to continue the work. Do not give the Democratic Party the opportunity to play the usual games, taking refuge in the secret rooms of the meetings of the Conference of the Leaders. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u45	Colleagues, we have concluded the debate. Having joined the request to convene the Conference of Leaders, I will immediately summon you and then suspend the sitting pending the outcome. (The sitting was suspended at 10.39 a.m. and resumed at 12.23 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u46	The Conference of Leaders approved by a majority changes to the current timetable, limited to the timing and timing of the meetings, without prejudice to the topics already envisaged. Today's sitting will resume at 3.30 p.m. with communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council on 18 and 19 February. After the debate, the Presidency will make its communications, pursuant to Article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Rules of Procedure, on the related draft law on self-employment. On tomorrow's day, the Assembly will not hold a sitting to allow the work of the Commissions. [[Laughter from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] Next week the calendar provides as the first argument, starting Tuesday afternoon, the examination of the decree-law extends deadlines and then the continuation of the discussion of the bill on civil unions. CASTALDI (M5S). They don't want it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, since when does the President who is reading the calendar stop? [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] I'm calling you back to order, Senator Castaldi. AIROLA (M5S). All you had to do was vote! You don't want to vote for him! MARTON (M5S). Take him back and be ashamed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet! The single sitting on Wednesday 24 will end at 10 p.m., the single sitting on Thursday 25 will end at 6 p.m. and therefore the question time will be postponed to another date. As usual, for single meetings, the Presidency will be able to provide for suspensions in order to enable the work to be carried out in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u49	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I take your proposal ironically. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I must interrupt you, Senator Centinario, because you know very well that the proposal is not mine and that it comes from a Conference of Leaders in which you participated! Let's start establishing the way things are. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Let us settle things as they are, and then I say that I take the proposal from the majority of the group leaders present in a meeting a few minutes ago in an ironic way, Mr President. I would like to make an alternative proposal, Mr President, and first of all a point, which I would ask you to pass because it will really only take a few seconds. For two weeks - I stress: two weeks - members of the Democratic Party (and I am not talking about the Parent Company, which has said it sometimes in the Chamber but is in the logic of things) have battered on all the media, claiming that the 5,000 amendments of the League were obstructive and, as a result, since this law had to be taken home as quickly as possible, it was necessary to apply the kangaroo, the kangaroo kangaroo - ornitorinco - koala-Marcucci. In fact, it was necessary to bring home the law as quickly as possible and give the rights to homosexual couples, while the League, bad, was obstructing. Today, as today, President, we find ourselves the Democratic Party (and everything that goes after it) to do not obstructism, more: to bring down this law. You take not 48 hours, you take today, that we had to work until 22, tomorrow, that we had to work until 18, you take Friday, when you could schedule the work, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. You take eight precious days of House work - and then former President Napolitano wands us, saying that we do not work - to postpone this law. So, Mr President, I refer the charge of obstruction to the sender and we will tell all Italians that those who do not want this law are not the League, who does not want it anyway, and that those who behave ambiguously with the Italians are the ones who are proposing it and at the same time are doing obstructionism! You said you had the numbers, President Zanda, and you threatened me during the meetings, telling me to withdraw the amendments otherwise you would have arrived with the Marcucci amendment and you would have cleaned up. You said that on more than one occasion. What are you doing now? You take 48 hours! Our proposal, Mr President, is a serious and working proposal: work is done now, we start to vote immediately and we are going to proceed according to the timetable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And for the simple reason, Mr President, that we want to start talking about serious things, we want to start talking about what are the real problems facing Italians, young Italians, young Italian couples, people who do not arrive at the end of the month, 10 million Italians below the poverty line, 42% of youth unemployment, which you are not solving. And those unemployed aren't just heterosexuals, they're homosexual and heterosexual unemployed, who may prefer to get to the end of the month and make a family, rather than just stand here and listen to your stupidities! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Our proposal is to start working and to vote. If you really have a majority, how do you say you have - because you've been snooping for two weeks and now you're crappy - we vote! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u52	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, this is a page of political history to remember, but to remember for a "never" more. Do you like to win easy? But now you don't have the numbers. But we have one thing: we have democracy and we have our conscience. So we can move on, there are 300 of us, and we can vote with our conscience. I therefore ask everyone to read the text, for those who have not yet done so, and to vote on it conscientiously. We are talking not about a concession, but about a denied right, right to love, right to love and right to family. They already love each other, they are not waiting for us, they are already a family and this is only a recognition of rights denied until today. I feel sorry for those who do not have the courage to move forward and vote in this House. Have the courage of your actions and responsibilities. That's why they pay us, to make an act of discernment. Let us now vote and vote now; let us give them our dues and take care of this Italy, which is falling apart. My proposal is to move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u55	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to repeat to the House what the 5 Star Movement had just said before the Conference of the Leaders: we do not believe and do not think it appropriate to delay further, in accordance with the work that has been done in these many months. I remember that the measure was eight months in the Commission, I remember that the 5 Star Movement asked nine times for the calendarization of civil unions, a bill proposed not by the 5 Star Movement, but by a senator of the PD. The 5 Star Movement has asked for calendarization and, nine times, this has been rejected. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is therefore unacceptable to postpone, among other things, the Democratic Party, on a law that proposes the Democratic Party itself and on which the 5 Star Movement has not tabled any amendments, precisely to make it clear that it wants to come to the House to vote on a measure that lays down rights. We strongly call for the draft law not to be postponed, for this Parliament to demonstrate. I would remind you of what we said last week and that was also reiterated by the former President of the Republic of Naples, who perhaps finally realized how we have been working and what we have been saying for three years. We ask that, when the measure arrives in this Chamber now, we begin to debate it now and continue working on Friday, we vote on all the amendments and finish this charade and this shot of jacket on the right and left. We call for the dignity of this Parliament to be demonstrated in Europe and in the world once and for all. With regard to secret votes, I would like to understand what this Parliament has to fear, what every single senator has to fear in order to request a secret vote? We welcome the votes and that all Italians are able to know what their elected representatives are voting for and what voice they are bringing to Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, the proposal is as follows: no referral back to the House on Friday, Monday, Saturday and night, as we did for constitutional reforms, when this Parliament wanted, did and did not care. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Council Senator]] No postponements, no excuses, no excuses.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u58	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to repeat here exactly the reasoning I made at the Conference of the Leaders. The positions of those who want this law and those who do not want it are now absolutely clear and it is absolutely clear also that those who have used only and only the subject of adoption to say that if we intervened on that point or it was deleted then everything else was fine, it has done it instrumentally - I say it clearly - to try to block and lower the law. WOMAN (M5S). Then why did you vote for the postponement? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). It is clear to everyone that yesterday there was a situation which has certainly produced a very serious risk to the continuation of the process of the bill, after the same was in the Commission justice for months, months and months. You, Mr President, are a witness to how many times we have asked you to bring him to this House. In stating that it is very clear who wants the law and who does not want it, I allow myself here once again - because then yes, we are intellectually honest - to address the same invitation that I addressed to the Leaders, which is the request behind the proposal for referral that I made yesterday. I believe that it would be absolutely necessary for everyone to put these amendments aside - as I said yesterday officially, even with a statement, requesting the withdrawal of Senator Marcucci's amendment, and as I said today, asking the League to withdraw the other premissive amendments. And on the secret vow I ask: but what is this freedom of conscience that is exercised only hidden behind the secret vow? All of you give up and speak here about giving up your request for a secret vote, each taking responsibility for himself before all citizens for what you think and how you vote. It is no longer possible to think that freedom of conscience is exercised only in the secret of the urn in this House! On a matter like this, with the country that is waiting for rights to finally be recognised and discrimination eliminated, is this House so petty that it does not take responsibility openly and hide in this way? When I talk about assuming responsibility, I think that everyone must take responsibility for their own part and in this way the problem of those who trust or do not trust others is solved, because everyone assumes responsibility for what he votes. We're still in time to do this job. I can understand the fact that we have been asked to postpone further the examination of the measure, but I would also like to say very clearly that the postponement once again and the fact that we do not want to take a step back from everyone and give up secret votes cannot become the instrument for PD to rebuild the majority of government at the expense of the law, accepting excerpts or other operations. I would like to say this very frankly. We understand that we want to reflect and that after yesterday's sitting there is a need for reflection, but we are very afraid - and we want to say this clearly here - that the shift, in the absence of clear acts, some even unilateral, withdrawal of premissive amendments and all requests for secret voting, can become the way to move the examination of the bill forward over time or perhaps reconstruct a majority of government to the detriment, in this case, of rights. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senator Molinari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u61	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, following the important statements just made by Senators De Petris and Catalfo, I would like to be able to better express what I have already represented at the Conference of Leaders. I am convinced that in this House everyone wants to proceed with the adoption of a law on civil unions for a civil country that must know how to advance on the field of rights, and that within this debate - because this serves the parliamentary debate - everyone intends to bring his own position, his own culture and his own proposals to the point on which to find an agreement to proceed. This will not prevent this House from voting on this law and the way it will vote on it will be the result of a proper and regular debate. But no proper and regular debate, especially on such an important subject for the lives of people and our society, can take place if two major issues are not clarified first. The first question, to which Senator De Petris has just referred, concerns the dynamics of the secret vote. On the occasion of a text like this, on which all the groups, almost indistinguishably, have left (and could only be so) their members total freedom of conscience and of vote, the secret vote is an issue which, in my opinion, becomes a political instrument, but in this regard I do not allow myself to have a position either of a personal type or of a political type that can preclude different solutions. That is to say, President Grasso: you decide what are those secret vows that pertain to the freedom of people and, if there are, grant them. But, Mr De Petris, this is not the most important issue. The most important question is how to prevent the law from being evaluated with its most significant amendments, which at most can be about 400, leaving room and scope for those who, on the one hand, intend to represent their own position and have the right and duty to do so (i.e. the thousands of amendments) and those who, on the other hand, intend to prevent the normal and regular conduct of the debate, the vote and the adoption of this law by means of amendments that recall the tricks and forcings we have already seen in this House (and the fact that they are repeated on such a sensitive subject for people's conscience is as serious as ever). The main question, on which to find a correct understanding between the Groups, is therefore that of the amendments. However, Mr Grasso, no decision can be taken if you do not first tell this House what the path to follow or on what path this measure must be able to find the vote on the amendments and the final vote. That is why I think that yesterday's debate, like today's debate, merely highlights a political fact, which is a fact of which I take responsibility, Mr Grasso. Because of the fact that you have not decided anything and the fact that the Democratic Party demanded and thought to decide too much, this is the situation in which we find ourselves. I do not know who wants the law and who does not want it, but there is certainly one fact: the relative majority party is unable to carry this law forward and to have it approved by this House. All the Leaders have declared themselves willing to proceed, to work and to move forward. Of course, if we need a technical postponement, we have understood that we can probably find a solution, but before political solutions, we need solutions and indications on how to proceed, otherwise the Marcucci amendment and the series of premissive amendments, which are just escapades to rip this law off and not to get it approved, become a substantive and political issue. That's why the 5 Star Movement Leader can say what she said and she's right when she says it. There is a majority party that has not been able to accompany the path of this law. Whether he wanted it or did not want it, I do not know, I leave it to the consciences of each of the MPs of the Democratic Party to determine how much it was to strike a certain type of electorate and how much it was simply a demagogic and palace operation, which failed miserably. Therefore, in sharing what the Opposition Leaders have already represented at the Conference of the Leaders, I call on you to take the decisions you must take, to clear the field from all the amendments that distort and cheat this measure and to start examining it as soon as possible, even as the majority, on a proposal from the Democratic Party, has decided to give itself, that is another week of time. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u64	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, we are witnessing a surreal situation. We all know, both inside and outside this House thanks to the press, that the Democratic Party has difficulty in carrying out this bill. We have all had an extremely virulent, effective and sometimes even homophobic opposition from the centre-right. That said, the surprise was the change of direction by the 5 Star Movement, which basically sunk - thank God, only "almost" - the bill. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Campanella, as President De Petris has already made the speech for the Mixed Group, you can only make a proposal to change the personal calendar if you want to do so. CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). I wanted to finish, President. CATALFO (M5S). Squeeze! The proposal? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Otherwise, we are going too far to expand the debate. Move forward with the amendment proposal. CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). President, I think it is important that I emphasise one aspect. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course, you can justify your proposal. CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). The position of the 5 Star Movement has been justified and postponed out in terms of coherence. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] And let him speak, no! CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). They're not used to letting people talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Catalfo, let Senator Campanella speak, he's making a proposal for a change. [[Comments of the Senator Catalfo]] I don't allow these bad weather. Let's talk. You spoke, now let Senator Campanella speak. CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). The 5 Star Movement proposal was motivated in terms of procedural consistency. [[Comments of Senators Cioffi and Moronese]] Those who experience the problem of obliteration, the denial of their rights, will probably evaluate these motivations in an appropriate and appropriate way, also because the 5 Star Movement has demonstrated on several occasions - frankly, on many occasions - that it has an understanding of the concept of elastic coherence when lying about who opposes the way of functioning of that movement and elastic, I come back to say, about the way of working both in Parliament and in local administrations. [[Comments of Senator Buccarella]] SANTANGELO (M5S). President! PUGLIA (M5S). Do you want to vote yes or no? Ma'am, you've got to be kidding me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Campanella, put forward your amendment proposal. I've already invited you twice. CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). As you can see, their democratic culture is in formation. As far as this aspect is concerned, I think it is appropriate to point out to Italy, to Italians, to those who are listening to us at this moment that the moment of difficulty... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. For the last time, I call on you to make the proposal and not to make reports. CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). I'm getting there, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to propose. You can't go on. Your Parent has already spoken and made your explanation of vote. CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). You know that the Mixed Group is composite by formation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's right, but make the amendment proposal. CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). I ask you to start talking about this law from Tuesday to give it a chance... President. We've been talking about this law for 32 hours since January 28th. You certainly cannot say that you have lacked time to intervene. I now ask you to put forward the amendment proposal. He had the floor for that. CAMPANELLA. President. - I give up my speech. [[Laughter from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u67	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, unfortunately, we have taken the bad habit of resuming the debate that has already taken place at the Conference of the Leaders in this Chamber, but I too am entering into this very bad habit. The novelty of this morning is that the kangaroo is dead and in the night, from the kangaroo pouch, neither chickens nor rabbits have come out, also because these are animals that should not normally attend this House. However, we take note of the fact that the Marcucci amendment no longer exists. A pause for reflection is required and I hope that it will be a pause (i.e. the postponement of a week) but also, and above all, an authentic reflection on the path ahead of us in the coming weeks. But in order for this reflection to be positive, Mr President, as Senator Bonfrisco has already told you, I have the impression that there is a need for your presence in relation to the unresolved problems concerning the admissibility, the order of the amendments and the content of the amendments, which are judged by some to be obstructive and which we do not think are, because the obstructionist ones have all been removed from the table. If, for your part, Mr President, we do not at least have an idea of the path and the rules that will distinguish the debate in this House on this measure, it will be difficult to carry out a genuine reflection on the content. That is why my proposal to change the timetable disagrees with the majority proposal, and it is a proposal to postpone the discussion of the measure until the rules of the game of this debate are clarified. It can take even one day. It can take even a week. It's not a problem how long it takes. It depends only on the desire, first of all, and the majority to confront each other, without animals travelling around the House, without kangaroos, without attempts to suppress the debate, in a genuine dialogue between the political forces, according to rules which, Mr President, at this point, having no more thousands of amendments on the table, you are in a position to dictate. If all this happens in the next few days, we will be delighted. However, as I find it difficult for this to happen, or at least we are not aware of it, either from his words or from the proposals of the majority, which are not there, the proposal to change the timetable that I have left is to postpone the debate on this measure until these problems are resolved. If then there is the will to resolve them, it is obvious that my proposal falls immediately. But to date and to now, since these problems are absolutely unsolved, it seems to me the only thing to do. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u68	Senator Romani, it is a somewhat abnormal way to make a request for referral without setting a date and a deadline. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). I propose that we do not schedule the follow-up to the examination of the measure in this House, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me talk, you don't have the floor. You cannot request a postponement without setting a deadline. The law provision on civil unions will be resumed and put on the agenda, with respect to the calendar, after the decree-law of extension deadlines. The time of discussion will be that. If there had been no request for postponement, then voted by the House, which remains sovereign, if there had not been a request for a further postponement majority, which will now be voted by the House, the Presidency would have already spoken. The Presidency speaks at a time when it must speak, that is in this Chamber, and at a time when the specific issue of civil unions will be discussed on the agenda. Your request for a postponement pending a decision can only be made if - if the timetable remains the one proposed by the majority and there are no changes, which will be voted by the House - work is resumed. To be precise, is your proposal not to schedule the measure for next Thursday? ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr President, my proposal is precisely the non-calendarisation in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u71	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, it has been said several times in this House that the draft law has remained before the Commission for more than nine months and it has not been said, however, that the text that has arrived in this House has never been discussed in the Commission. There were, in fact, at our examination several bills, six or seven, and the discussion began on all together: one was at first signed Giovanardi, another at my first signature. In the end, there was a basic text to be brought to the House, which was discussed and voted on, but in the end, Senator Cirinna brought a new, different text that arrived in the Chamber, alas, without rapporteur. Now, the fact that there is no rapporteur, Mr President, makes it very difficult to find an adjustment to what are the most debated and controversial points in this House, even putting at risk the provisions that everyone - I believe - wants, namely the recognition of rights to same-sex couples. The subject is extremely sensitive because, since there is no rapporteur who can propose an amendment that can satisfy all the parties involved here, it remains the only possibility of identifying a modification of an amendment - acceptable, of course - that can be met by all the parties. You see, Senator Marcucci, Senator Marcucci, Senator Marcucci... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u72	Senator Falanga, you must address the Presidency and the House, not the individual senators, otherwise it is a dialogue that you can also do elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u73	FALANGA (AL-A). I beg your pardon, President. Since I am talking about the Marcucci amendment, I would like to ask you to beg Senator Marcucci to listen to me. That amendment excludes Title II of the Law on Special Adoptions and does not exclude Title IV of the same Law, which basically says the same thing, because there is no difference between Title II and Title IV. Perhaps, even if the Marcucci amendment, by implementing the needs of other political forces, could be revised and adjusted... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, it's my turn to bring you back to the subject that must be an amendment proposal. You are making a proposal to amend amendments, not the timetable. FALANGA (AL-A). No, ma'am, if you'll let me talk to you, I'll prove that's not true. I am saying that it is probably a time necessary to be able to revisit the Marcucci amendment as well, because it is a purely technical matter and we must dismiss from this House a legislative measure that does not lend itself to the interpretations of the jurisprudence and the judges, because otherwise we will fall into the usual trap of seeing ourselves replaced by the judiciary in legislative activity. In conclusion, Mr President, we have been asked to postpone until next week and I believe it is useful and necessary to leave all of next week to find a technical solution that satisfies all the parties and, above all, what is most important, that gives the recognition of civil rights to those minorities who have been asking us for years to do so. If we are a civilized, democratic and modern country, we absolutely must respond to this request. So my proposal is to postpone the examination of the measure to beyond next week. (Senator Bondi asked to speak.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u74	Senator Bondi, the proposed modifications can be made... [[Brusio.]] Please, to those who talked about the dignity of the Senate, I say that there is also a school that is following our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u75	I greet the pupils and students of the Institute including Atina, in the province of Frosinone, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u76	Mr President, I shall vote in favour of the timetable you have proposed. I wonder - if you will allow me, for 30 seconds - what they have understood outside this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u77	Excuse me, Senator Falanga has already spoken for his Group and we can only intervene to make proposals. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u80	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I have a proposal which does not want to upset what has been said so far but to supplement it. I call for a communication from the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Defence to be heard in the Chamber tomorrow on windy decisions involving our country at international level in a serious way. I am referring to the decision - if it exists - to send troops to the Mosul dam and the decision on what we are going to do in Libya. I believe that this House has long been waiting for a communication.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u81	Senator Mauro, I must interrupt you because there is no possibility of introducing new topics on the calendar. The timetables have only been changed. At the Conference of the Leaders it was decided that no new topics could be included, but that only times and times could be adjusted. In the Commission you can make the request and, since the Commissions are not working tomorrow, you could make this request to the Bureau, but not here.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u82	Mr President, I respectfully point out that my proposal is part of a dead time and is made such by the Democratic Party's strategy, because there is nothing to be done tomorrow. [[Applause from Senator Pepe]] This is your precise responsibility, while the world is on fire. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Bignami and Pepe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u85	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to make our proposal for an amendment to the timetable. We consider that the day of in-depth reflection is today, so we propose to start voting tomorrow and to continue for the whole day of tomorrow and Friday. We could continue this weekend, even though we are all committed to participating in the National Assembly of the Left Ecology and Freedom, because it is important for us to resume voting immediately.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u86	I think it's the same proposal as the Five Star Movement. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). We have asked for the vote to be resumed tomorrow. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. From tomorrow, so not right away. We shall now proceed to the vote. I beg the senators to get to their seats, because you vote by show of hands. I beg the secretary senators to check it out. Senator Ferrara, I see you out of place. FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). If you vote by show of hands, by definition you may not be in your place. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I asked for it in order to promote the work of the Presidency and the Secretaries. FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). You have to count your hands, not your lights, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Meanwhile, you reach your place, as it must be. FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). I'm where I like it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You don't vote then. I asked for cooperation to encourage the Secretary Senators and the Presidency in the evaluation of the vote by show of hands. FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). And if I want to be in this Chamber without a vote, does it stop me? Don't tell me where to stay. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can certainly stay in this Chamber without voting. In order to help, I have asked for the cooperation that you obviously do not want to give. But we don't need your cooperation, thank you. FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). But collaboration on what? If I don't want to vote, what do I have to cooperate with? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote. CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Secretary Senators moving around the House are ridiculous! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Casini, Secretary Senators are checking because it is foreseeable that the counter-test will be carried out. FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). You'll see. Have them vote in the meantime! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings to continue the examination of the measure without interruption, made by Senators Bignami and Centinario. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. We're waiting for Senator Secretary to reach his post to enter the card and vote. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings aimed at continuing the examination of the measure, with the forecast of sessions on Friday, Saturday and Monday, made by Senator Catalfo. [[Ironic applause and comments by Senator Castaldi]] It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u88	I've already arranged the counterproof, Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u90	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking constructively to you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. SANTANGELO (M5S). There's another smart one. Senator Matteoli's card, which is not in the Chamber, is included. I kindly ask you to remove it. It's down here.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u91	Thank you for your cooperation. It was right in front of him. I beg the Senators Secretary to remove the card. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments. Secretary Senators remove Senator Matteoli's file.]] I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. We're waiting for Senator Secretary Di Giorgi to reach her station to enter the card and vote. It's not approved. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings to avoid calendarizing the measure on Thursday, put forward by Senator Paolo Romani. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Falanga, to postpone the examination of the measure until later next week. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include in the voting calendar tomorrow, Friday and Saturday, tabled by Senator Petraglia. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Ironic applause from Senator Airola]] The timetable for work, which was adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and which I communicated to the Assembly, remains therefore final. I am suspending the sitting until 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.14 p.m. and resumed at 3.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u92	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 18 and 19 February 2016 and subsequent discussion" I note that, in accordance with the determinations adopted by the Conference of Leaders on Wednesday 10 February, after the communications, a debate will take place in which each Group will have ten minutes, including the final explanations of vote. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the dossiers that are brought to the attention of the next European Council tomorrow and Friday are very different from each other and range from the English referendum on staying within the Union to migratory issues. In the background, however, the delicate issue of the economic situation on our continent remains - as is now the case regularly, at least since we have posed this problem. Paradoxically, that is why we can say that the different dossiers are linked by a fil rouge, by a common thread that is simply one: will the Europe we imagine for the next few years continue to be a community or, if you want, will it become a community again, or will it be reduced more and more day after day to being just a contract? In my opinion, the dilemma between community and contract is the basis of the reflections on which I briefly entertain you in this Senate work session before moving to the House. As Italy we think that Europe is a community, that can only be a community, that must share values and not just parameters, that shares a destiny and not only a bond and is in a position to share ideas and not just funds. When it comes to European funds, they are all in the front row; but when it comes to defending identity itself, which is the condition for sharing those funds, the attitude seems profoundly different. That is why this idea of Europe as a community and not as a contract emerges the first of the two lines that we propose to the attention of Parliament and that we ask it to enhance, discuss and possibly share with the vote. The first line is that all necessary efforts must be made to keep the United Kingdom within the European Union. First of all, let us say this - it is good to say - in the interests of the British, because on this point too there must be maximum clarity: a possible exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union would be first and foremost a dramatic damage to the United Kingdom itself, but I think it is also an interest of all Europeans. In fact, the first to lose from this setback would be the subjects of the queen, but I think that at that point, if one of the great countries of the G7 decided to do without the European Union, one of the countries that marked the history of this institution, the message would go beyond the reduction from 28 to 27, which would also be an unprecedented and a matter of extraordinary gravity. In the event that this happens, in fact, we would be in the presence of a sign of counter-trend of historical scope. I say this because for my generation, in this week and in the last few days, there has been virtually unnoticed news: Bosnia and Herzegovina has submitted a formal application for membership of the European Union. Let me be clear: this is a very long path and we know that, as Italy, we are in the front row so that first of all Albania and Serbia can become part of the great European family. But for those of us who remember the images of the mid-1990s, especially the Sarajevo market and not only that, the idea that Bosnia and Herzegovina, a melting pot of countries, stories and ethnic groups, which struggles to find its own identity, can also formally request membership of the European Union is an element of watershed. It is so for my generation, but I believe it is so for all those who have lived with the bloody heart those pages of war - the war a few hundred kilometers in the crow flies from our home - that we cannot have forgotten. If you think about it, Bosnia has always been the silent symbol of a multi-secular religious consciousness, and it has been one of the few places where multi-religious consciousness has found its home, with a thousand difficulties - as we know - because it was the place from which conflicts arose. It is therefore not imaginable to think that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a sort of paradise, but the fact that it is asking for membership of the European Union is - in my opinion - a great symbol of what Europe must continue to be. If the English referendum were to defeat David Cameron's proposal, the opposite negative message would be an impressive force and power. Does that mean, then, that we must accept everything that London requires? Absolutely not, of course. We are for a compromise and Tusk's letter goes in this direction. In the last few hours we are discussing and talking; we will discuss it tomorrow at the first session; then, after a dinner dedicated to migration, there will be the after dinner centered again on the issue of the so-called Brexit. There's work to be done. There's something to discuss. I believe that the stakes to which Italy must stick are those of the centrality of the euro: one cannot imagine considering the euro as one of the many. I believe that this is the principle of recognition - in my opinion sacred - of the European Union's development direction, the increasingly united, increasingly integrated, ever closer, which, of course, sees a more articulated position in the British. And I think that there is a need to strengthen vigorously the direction of the European Union, regardless of the debate with the United Kingdom at this stage. But if a great country decides to play the referendum card, there are no political reasons that can make us replace the Head of its Government. In other words, can we consider Cameron's a gamble, a risk? Surely, if he has decided to take his fellow citizens to vote on the text that will come out in the next few hours, I believe that the sovereign will of that country must be respected. There are times when the referendum is a weapon that must be respected in all its strength and power. And we do this on the subject of constitutional reform, obviously linked not to the European Union, but to our way of conceiving the country and its future. If the British decide to do this battle, well, we will be at their side knowing - and this is a fundamental point - that, for the first time in history, we risk reducing the number of countries of the European Union, and we risk doing so starting not from a country at random, with all respect for the various countries, which have equal dignity, but from the United Kingdom. This is the first of the issues we will have to deal with. I hope that a good compromise can be found. We will not resize the role of the euro, but we must be prepared to reach an agreement allowing the British to vote - I hope - as soon as possible. Every element of uncertainty about this is a further weakening for the European institutions. The second point is immigration. It seems a long way from when we said - I was less than a year ago - that immigration is a European issue. We used to say that, on the other hand, in blissful loneliness. Very few were those who had sided with our cry of pain. Perhaps the first was the Government of Malta, after what happened in April last year. It seems very far away from the times when colleagues at the table wanted to prevent any discussion by entrenching themselves behind the rules, which are now defined by all as short-sighted and asphytic, of the Treaty of Dublin. There is now no one who does not see that the migration issue is ontologically, intimately and structurally European and, therefore, the answer can only be European. We are among those who have never changed their position on how to deal with migration. We think it is a fact of historical significance, which first of all resolves by working at the root. Will there be a reason why this Government continues to invest in a policy for and with Africa? Will there be a reason why this Government continues to invest in a different relationship with African countries? Senators and senators, I confess that, during the intervention in the Ghanaian Parliament, the moment of utmost attention and sharing by your colleagues in that country was when we strongly said, on behalf of Italy, that we want to do everything so that young people raised in Ghana, as in all other countries, can have opportunities to remain in that reality. It's a shared opinion. There is no desire to get rid of the problem on the part of the rulers of that land. Everyone considers it a priority to return to investing in international cooperation, which we have unfortunately not done in recent years. The process of re-starting on the issues of international cooperation is not a tribute that we want to give because in this legislature we have passed a law that has been waiting for twenty-seven years. We are proud and proud of it, but it is a strategic choice. You have to go back to investing in the places from which those young lives start that often find death in the desert or at sea and that, if they risk everything they have, they do it because they have no opportunity in their own land. If we think that the biggest investor in Africa today continues to be China, even on the issues of agro-food, we can humbly tell Europe, which we have founded with our Fathers, that crucial attention to the South of the world and, in particular, Africa is not a third world regurgitation to put our conscience in order, but it is a strategic and cultural choice. Investing in a different relationship with Africa is the premise of any migration operation. Alongside this there is the principle of respect for the rules: those who are not entitled to the reception must be sent home. We've been saying that since day one. The point is: if the European Union makes returns, it is a film, if individual states make them, it is another film. If I asked you which country has made the most returns between European countries, the answer would be Italy. Yet, it is shared that those returns are not enough. It's a common opinion. Consequently, while it is true that Europe must embody a strategic policy of international cooperation, it is equally true that Europe must take responsibility for making return agreements, and it is equally true that there must be a single right of asylum. It is not possible to have separate rules for 28 countries. In my opinion, our proposal, the Italian proposal, must also be refined over the next few months, and I try to explain myself. We have done a great deal of work on the subject of reception and will continue to do so. We will never renounce the fundamental values of our civilization, because it is written in the law not of the sea, but of the heart that, when a person risks dying, is saved. It is written in the rule of civil cohabitation [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Gambaro]] But what is the point on which - in my opinion - we must be very clear? And I say this from the experience of our mayors, the first citizens of small countries. When you have asylum seekers who spend every day doing nothing - I use an expression that is not legally unappealable - bawling from one side to the other, it is clear that a feeling of disaffection grows in public opinion, and this feeling must not be judged by the canon of moralism, even before morality. It must be taken for what it is: the cry of sorrow of a community that cannot understand things behind those stories. If that's the point, we can't even be surprised if our mayors have some behavior and worry about it. We cannot be surprised - and I say this with pragmatism and realism - that some European countries are literally possessed by fear. I don't think it's just an irrational feeling. The only way to face fear is to look her in the eye. But, if democratic governments have lost elections in recent months on the basis of the immigration debate, we must be aware that it is normal that in some public opinions they constantly postpone, and - I must say, in our opinion - in some cases even in an oversized way, in words and places that are for us, sometimes, rhetorical and demagogic, but focused on fear, the fear of the different. The equal security equation against immigration in European public opinion is an obvious falsehood, starting from the assumption that, if we are to look at things and call them by our own name, we will have to recognize that what happened to Bataclan and, before that, to Charlie Hebdo was born, grown and, in some way, fomented by women and men who grew up in the neighbourhoods of European cities who had not found in those realities of different places to overcome their marginalization. Yet, the feeling of fear that grows must be considered for what it is. That is why - in my opinion - if we consider Europe as a contract (to return to the starting point), we can make a list of the things we have done, show our hotspots, give them percentages of the people to whom we take fingerprints and tell our projects, which are very serious and credible. In fact, there is not only the fingerprint, but there is also the photosigning and a whole system linked to a technological project that allows facial recognition and, therefore, the traceability - forgive me the word - of any danger. We are working in this direction. If Europe is a contract, we can present what we have already done and what we are doing. But if Europe is a community, that is not enough. If Europe is a community, the moment we are living is key to remind our partners first and then to ourselves that Europe was born when the barriers were thrown down; Europe was born when the walls were knocked down and found its own identity in the capacity to open up, without being lost. And if this is not said by a generation of zigzag leaders who are more concerned about the immediate consensus than about the historical phenomenon, it will be up to us, Italians and Italians, to remember that Europe has been conceived not as a place to stem the world that is outside, but as such an innovative place, so enterprising and exciting that it attracts the best part of the entire planet. If this does not happen, do we want to be frank in saying that there is a Europe problem today and that we, as Italians, have a duty, even before the right, to point out, also proposing our solutions? I am now opening up what I know to be a point of distinction with a part of the Senate Assembly, which is why Italy, in recent weeks and months, has put a European issue firmly on the table. Only those who don't want to see can judge ours as the position of someone beating their fists on the table in order to get an extra decimal at an economic level. I'll tell you a secret. We can take the economic decimals without having to put our fists on the table. If we look at the Italian deficit, it is the lowest of the last ten years. If we look at the debt containment capacity from 2008 to today, among the 28 countries Italy is the third, after Holland and Germany, as debt containment capacity. Let us look at our friends and partners, Spain, France and the United Kingdom itself, who have carried out a gigantic tax reduction operation, bringing the deficit to 5%: certainly, with a different level of debt, but with a tax lowering operation that has been totally financed in deficit (although authoritative commentators in the newspapers think otherwise). If we think that's the benchmark, we can easily reason differently. If we're really gonna take some financial space, do you think that's the way? We have a much greater ambition. And here let me also be critical and self-critical. In my opinion, we need to remind ourselves that, when Italy speaks, it speaks a great country, which is not only the third economy of the eurozone, or the second manufacture of the continent, or a G7 country, or a founding country or one of the main countries as a contribution to the European Union. When Italy speaks, it speaks a load of history that needs to be declined in the present. And if in the past, because of widespread responsibilities, we have in some cases thought that we can use Europe also in the Italian political game, let's look at the reality for what it is now. Europe without Italy is weaker. Europe, without Italy's contribution, is not in a position to face a long-term project. When we place ourselves in dialectical terms with the European institutions, we are not sinning of miserable majesty, but we are doing what all other European countries do. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] There's a difference. In our home, for the responsibility of politics and also of the ruling class (or supposedly such), one is used to imagine that this attitude is "giamburrasco," using a Florentine literary reference not learned like others. It is imagined that those who go to Brussels, asking that discussions be held on certain issues, play the card of the extravagant request for help. But we are offering something to Europe, that is, to return to being the Europe of bridges more than the Europe of accounts; the Europe of ideals, more than the Europe of decimals; the Europe of vision, more than the Europe of division. In this sense, Minister Padoan has also presented a working document on economic issues, which I believe is very interesting and which will also concern the European economic issue. There is no point in making too many articulate speeches. Over the past eight years, the United States with Barack Obama has chosen an economic policy that has led to lower unemployment and higher growth. Europe has chosen an economic policy that has seen unemployment grow and the overall economic situation do not grow sufficiently; indeed, it has seen the distance between the leading country and the others increase. That is a fact. To say that, as a result, it is no longer enough to have a policy focused solely on austerity, which deals - in a questionable way - with banks, and not with unemployment and social affairs, it means being consistent with the history of Italy and it also means being able to bring back some truth to this debate. There was a discussion, even with a motion of distrust to the Government, on the issue of banks in some territories of our country. Today we realize that the real issue of banks in Europe is a huge one that concerns the first German bank, as well as the second German bank. Let me be clear. I am cheering for that bank not only to be saved, but also to be placed in a position to act for the good of the European economy, because it would be absurd to think otherwise in a nationalist division. [[Senator Martelli's comments.]] But the fact is that, instead of worrying about Italian government bonds or other countries that are bought by banks, we must have the strength to say that in the belly of banks, of many European credit realities, there is an excess of derivatives, of toxic securities, which I believe must clearly lead Italy to take a position. We will veto any attempt to give a roof to the presence of government bonds in the bank's portfolio, and on this we will show, without any failure, a consistency and an exemplary force. At the same time let me say that if some banks in Northern Europe had held the Italian government bonds in 2011-2012, today they would have much more performance, rather than having put in their belly some deeply questionable realities and that they still do not give a return such as the one that would have guaranteed the Italian government bonds at that level. We must, however, overcome our psychological subdiction so that those who speak of a different Europe are immediately accused of having who knows what perverse design. Our idea of Europe leads us to say that we want European civil service (and we will launch it by March); that we want to make Ventotene not just a place of memory. In this regard let me say that it mourns the heart to see the situation in which the prison of the island of Santo Stefano is located. And for this reason, together with the Region and our Ministries, we will work to make that place a guesthouse for young students of Europe and the Mediterranean, who can have for the whole summer opportunities of valorization, in memory of Spinelli, Rossi and their companions. [[Applause from the PD and AL-A groups and Senator Buemi.]] Alongside this there must be the awareness that, if we go to Europe to discuss individual issues, individual problems, if we go to bring our answers, we are doing nothing but what is required of Italy. Changing European economic policy, focusing on the human and social dimension, working to reduce unemployment by promoting public and private investment, relaunching proposals that are not simply those of the super-Minister, but of a different economic policy, is our task. The choice is ours, because the debate whether Europe should be contracted or community - let me tell you - also crosses us, crosses the Italian public opinion, crosses our political parties. In my opinion, if anyone in this House and elsewhere thinks that the government wants to use the European issue as a diversion, we must note that the history of these years has sometimes seen controversy towards the European Union entrusted to the books, whispered in the corridors, but not placed in the institutional places, which are those of the Council, and those of the debate that precedes the Council. I am not going to write a book on the evils of Europe and I am not going to whisper in the corridors about how bad things are. I have a responsibility, which is that of a country that presents itself in Europe having made reforms. I understand that we can have different views on reforms. But, when there are more than 764,000 permanent contracts in one year, [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and the Repetti and Gambaro senators),]] It will also be a case, a stroke of luck, but we can say that 764,000 lives, who finally find a job indefinitely, do not thank the jobs act, but thank who? We thank the policy as a whole, which has finally simplified the rules to create opportunities. What for us is an amendment, a rule, a clause, for them is a piece of life; it is to be able to marry or live together or have a child; for them it is to be sure not to make an extra purchase, but to have a future that they did not see before. We have done the reforms. When I see Spain - and I am talking about an extraordinarily fascinating country, whose Prime Minister Sanchez will be with us at Palazzo Chigi next week; I am talking, therefore, about a country for which I have the utmost respect - not to be considered, as at the beginning of this legislature, a model for electoral law - you will remember - because it guaranteed stability, but even to be in a condition of substantial balance, so much so as not to understand if there will be a government and in what forms, I say that the reform of the electoral law, that this Senate, together with the Chamber, has approved, guarantees that stability and that governability which the Europeans have repeatedly recalled us. Well, since we have done our part, let us say that we are going to the European Council to say just one thing: for us Europe will never be a contract. If it is to be a contract, we will sit down as negotiators and discuss what needs to be discussed. But for us Europe is something more: it is that dream that had taken its roots from Ventotene. Maybe it's a dream that's been crumpled in the last few months. It is also the task of Italy to bring the debate back to its own level, in which, finally, after the Europe of the founding fathers, we can return to writing a future in the name of the children who have received the greatest gift, but who must demonstrate that they are the height of it. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and AP(NCD-UDC) and the Repetti, Gambaro and Roman Senators Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u94	We greet the students and the students, the escorts and teachers of the Institute including autonomous Casapesenna, in the province of Caserta, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u95	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u96	Mr President, the next European Council will be one of the most important in the recent history of the Union, which is proving to be impotent in the face of the very serious international situation, starting with the war in Syria with its consequences in terms of human lives and destruction, which mainly affect unarmed civilians, forcing them to a biblical exodus to the old continent, which unfortunately lacks a common foreign policy, a solidarity vision and a strategy to govern immigration without an emerging logic. Countries on the front line, such as Italy and Greece, have been left alone, and the European Agenda on Migration Policy has remained a largely unrealized dream book. In fact, allowing the restoration of barriers to the national borders of some States, it has ended up penalising the countries of first port, for which to the damage has been added the mockery of the infringement procedures for the non-taking of the fingerprints of the migrants and for the delayed opening of the hotspots. The Schengen Treaty, one of the first cornerstones of the Union itself, remains in force only thanks to the derogations provided for in it, while the Dublin Regulation, which belongs to another historical period, does not touch and feeds on the proliferation of national egoisms. On the other hand, there is no Commission measure vis-à-vis Member States which refuse to apply the relocation plan for migrants. This is a paradoxical situation, because the so-called Dublin Wall favours the raising of other walls in Europe and I hope that tomorrow's summit will at least prevent the total closure of borders in the South-East of Europe, which would result in the blockade of the Balkan route, diverting thousands of migrants to the Adriatic and thus opening a new front of arrivals on the coasts of Apulia. The Government is obliged to denounce once and for all the Dublin Regulation. The European Commission cannot demand from us only duties and not recognize us the sacred rights to safeguard the national interest granted to others, moreover, to abundantiam. Mr President, just think of the extensive concessions that the European Union itself is about to give to Cameron in order to prevent the threatened Brexit, in fact recognizing to Britain the granting of a special status on the issue of migrants, on national sovereignty and on the competitiveness of the country, as proof of the fact that double speeds and exceptions have now been rooted in this Union disunited. Of course, Brexit would be a tragedy for Europe, but it is unacceptable for us that London should interfere with future European choices in the field of public finance and immigration, without taking on its responsibilities. I believe that in the face of the enormous challenges of the economic crisis, immigration and the fight against terrorism, as has often been the case in foreign policy in our recent history, but, unfortunately, as is not happening now, the national political community should face up to it together: I am referring to the problems of the Italian funds demanded for Turkey, the flexibility of the maneuver, the bail in and the reorganization of the banks. These are all issues that - I repeat - can be summed up in one single: the double standard that has now been established in Europe for several countries and with different articulations. I have only one example: Germany has forced us to participate in sanctions against Moscow for Ukraine, asking us for a huge economic sacrifice, and then it has granted itself in solitary with Putin on the North Stream. Mr President, you have therefore done well to raise your voice against these obvious disparities in approach, to call for more flexibility against one-way rigour and to remember that over the last eight years the United States has been focusing on growth, investment and innovation, while Europe has been on austerity, currency and rigour, with the result that the United States is doing better at economic level than eight years ago, while Europe is doing worse. The data show, in fact, that from the maintenance of the status quo comes the sum of two asymmetries: those inherent in the real economy, so evident in the relationship between Germany and the weakest countries of the eurozone, and that of finance, which guarantees constant flows of capital at negative rates in Berlin. The combined effect of these two distinct phenomena creates a vicious circle that, if not arginated, risks eventually leading to the destruction of the euro itself. Austerity, even if accompanied by the techniques of quantitative easing, is not enough to restart the engine of the European economy and society. Certainly Italy must continue to do its homework, but Europe still has to start. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u97	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zeller. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u98	Mr President, the European Council on 18 and 19 February will have to address the reasons for the European Union's crisis, in particular the announced closure of its internal borders by Austria and Slovenia. We must also denounce the absolutely non-cooperative attitude of the countries of Eastern Europe, which does not seem to be dictated by the difficulty of managing migration flows, but by the explicit and preliminary rejection of any policy of reception and solidarity between the countries of the Union. It is quite clear that national policies and the restoration of controls at the internal borders of the European Union cannot be a valid response; this would also have unsustainable economic costs and would perhaps also be the prelude to the failure of the dream of a united Europe and the triumph of selfishness over the principles of solidarity and cooperation. I think I can say that the founding fathers of the European Union would turn to the grave if they saw the attitudes of some Member States. In particular, Austria's closure of the Brenner border would also be a blow to the Trentino-Tyrolean cross-border Euregio. The announced barriers, made perhaps even of barbed wire according to the model of the Austro-Slovenian border at Spielfeld, would have a devastating symbolic value for all those who have fought for the elimination of borders within the Union for decades. Moreover, such a choice, if confirmed, could have serious consequences for the Italian economy, especially for tourism. Germany - and this too must be pointed out - is already acting without saying it openly and I am told that between yesterday and today 3,500 people have already rejected it and it is a matter of days that this domino effect will also be resumed at the Italian and Austrian borders. If Austria and Germany legitimately raise the problem of the limits of the reception of refugees, however, it is essential to move in the opposite direction to that of new and further national barriers. Europe's serious and decisive action on the flow and security of the Union's external borders is urgently needed, and greater internal solidarity is also needed with regard to fair redistribution of asylum seekers between Member States. The numbers of redistribution so far achieved are ridiculous and do not honour Europe. The President of the Council Renzi and Chancellor Faymann, at their meeting a few days ago, rightly reiterated the necessary commitment of Europe not to leave countries such as Italy and Austria alone. The Europe of walls - which are not national borders but of the Union itself - rather than the strengthening of external controls would mark the beginning of the end of the union between the European States. The construction of a barrier to the Brenner would have a particular value. The Brenner is not comparable to the other borders; the Brenner has a highly symbolic value and, for the rest, it is also the most important pass between Italy and the countries of the North for the flows of goods and people. In 1997 the historic opening of the Brenner border took place, while at the same time opening up to a shared and common vision of Europe. The President emeritus Napolitano is also well aware that he was present on that occasion and that he was and remains the protagonist of that opening. Moreover, there is no pressing need for uncontrolled migratory flows at the Brenner border. In the unbelievable case of the movement of refugees from the Balkan route, I hope that the Italian Government will not hesitate to close the border to Slovenia too, if Austria also closes its borders to Hungary and Slovenia. If the neighbouring countries implement a plan B (and I hope it does not happen) because they do not believe in the success of plan A, that is, the defence of the borders of the Union, then I believe that Italy must also act in that direction and this would be a failure for all of us. We therefore share the government's position as expressed today by President Renzi and we will support it with conviction. [[Applause from the Group (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u99	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u100	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for your communications. I found the first point you touched particularly convincing and the expression you used when you spoke of the dilemma between community and contract. I believe that the European Union should be a community and not just a contract, and I am pleased that you said 'Community' and not 'Union'. In my opinion, a step back was taken in 1994 when the term 'European Community' was abandoned to embrace that of 'European Union', which is less pregnant than the spirit you, Mr President, wanted to stress. However, I believe - and here begin the points of non-full coincidence - that in every community the contract is an essential component and that it is particularly a weakness of Italian society, even in the sometimes caricatured vision that it has abroad, the fact that we prefer the community aspect and the solidarity aspect, while we have limited respect, in theory and in practice, for the laws. I would therefore suggest that we bring the message of the community to Europe, as you are doing so well, without demeaning the message of the contract. I am afraid - and I am telling you this with the displeasure of those who thought that your Government could make a significant contribution at European level too - that you risk making important steps backwards, in my opinion, both to the spirit of community in Europe and to the contract on which each community is based. This, I think, is making Italy and Europe take big risks. You do not lack the opportunity to denigrate the concrete ways of articulation and existence of the European Union; I am not referring to this or that single provision (I would not call it "denigration" of this type of criticism), but to systematic destruction, a clave or chisel depending on the circumstances, of everything that the European Union has meant so far or at least until February 2014. This is introducing in Italians, especially those who feel its charm and intend to follow it, a very dangerous alienation towards the European Union, so I see the risk of a very dangerous continental altriism, of contempt for the Europe that is given to us, of a dream for a Europe that we would like to realize and while of concrete contribution so that in Italy the raw material, which has always been very abundant in our public opinion, of consensus to the construction of Europe, is not in fact present. I would like to say to you in a heartfelt way, as a person who does not represent anyone here, except for a certain continuity of relationship between Italy and Europe, which should, in my opinion, reflect a great deal on this point. As for the contract, you know and keep in mind, please, that abroad we believe that our country is a country with a low propensity to comply with the rules. The Head of State, in his message at the end of the year, referring to a document of the Confindustria, also mentioned the data on tax evasion, with the 122 billion euros (seven and a half points of GDP) and the 300,000 jobs that could be created by halving the evasion. Abroad these things know and are surprised that we are asking to grow with a 0.5% more deficit on GDP, giving the impression that we really believe that growth depends on that, and not by tenfolding our efforts against tax evasion. In addition, you point out, with unfortunately unfounded pride, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that Italy respects the rules. We do not now have time to review the data; but if you take the last single market review, you will see that Italy, in the last six months, has unfortunately tripled its lack of transposition of the single market, it is at the highest level, in the European Union, for this type of failure, it has the highest number of cases pending before the Court of Justice, and so on. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that there is room for the battles you are making and that there is evidence of first important counterproductive effects. I think there is this space, but let me suggest that this space should play more on a real innovative charge. For example, as an Italian I would not hope that the European Commission or the Council would grant you all the flexibility you are asking for on behalf of Italy, because it would be a damage to us, because it would perpetuate, indeed it would bring back, after it had almost abandoned itself, the culture that is growing with the public deficit. Instead, it raises its voice so that at the end of February - now - the European Commission in the procedures for macro-economic imbalances really opens up a case against Germany more thoroughly. The ideal for Europe and for us would be more rigorous towards Germany for that and not too much flexibility towards us. Finally, we are all fascinated by his narration. She loves Italy, but we love her a little too. Do not make our country wrong to present it as traditionally and historically subjugated to the European Union. Take the example of how two of his predecessors - I quote two at random - the President of the Craxi Council at the Milan European Council in 1985 and the President of the Andreotti Council at the Rome Council in 1990 have been able - they - to exploit the Italian Presidency and, overcoming great difficulties, have imposed the start of the march towards the single currency. We hope that his Italy will be even stronger, but not compared to a false representation of Italy that was there before. [[Applause from Senators Casini, Fornaro and Mauro Mario]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u101	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all I would like to reassure Senator Monti because it is not that we are all fascinated, at least we are not in this state. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to begin by simply pointing out some aspects that the President-in-Office of the Council touched upon in his speech. First of all, the British are not subjects, but citizens until proven otherwise. The Dublin Regulation is not a treaty, but a regulation, so it must be amended in the sense that it provides for the European procedure. The other issue is that you have pointed out that you are very happy that the British are going to vote as soon as possible, so the question I am asking you is why we are not doing it too? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do we want to wait for the outcome of the next local elections in Rome? Do we want to wait for the Italians to pay the RAI fee after the elections in Rome and then forget them a little bit? Do we want to wait for the referendum on constitutional reforms, or do we want to wait for the Congress of the Democratic Party to take place in 2017? I don't know, you decide when the best time is, or we do as the English and we suggest that the Italians return to the elections as soon as possible. Compared to the contracts, I would like to tell you that they have simply been transformed by permanent precariousness, with a planned tax relief of about EUR 13.000. It cost much less our citizenship income, then (if you sometimes listen to us we would solve many problems of the Italians). You then talked about your generous trip to Ghana, but did you explain to our friends in Ghana that the one sitting next to you was Descalzi, the CEO of ENI? Have you explained your actions, for example, in Nigeria or other similar places in Africa? Did you explain this to him or did you go to bring only peace, good and glad? The other issue that I would like to stress is that you have hardly touched on any point on the European agenda in the coming days and that makes us worry. It is clear that the pillars on which you founded your Europe, which are the free movement of people, the free movement of capital and the single currency, are falling. These three points are failing. Faced with these scenarios, both the Government and the European Commission seem to be unarmed, they do not have a plan B, which is currently represented by a plan B towards what is called Brexit. I can tell you that if the 5 Star Movement were already in the government, there would already be a plan B to rescue our country from this situation, and this plan B would probably be called "exit" or something. Our plan B is called: we remove the eurozone and exit the euro immediately to restart not only Italy, but Europe as a whole. I'd also like to say something else. We, as a country, have missed a great opportunity and I do so, Mr Renzi, by showing you a document drawn up by his offices that is called "Synthesis of the results of the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union," that is, the European Semester under his leadership. Well, this document, which your offices of Palazzo Chigi provide us fortunately also in electronic version, simply tells us that here in the word...Schengen is never cited, the word "Dublin 3" is never mentioned, and the words "Repartition of quotas" or "Compensations" are never mentioned. This is simply to tell you that we have missed a great opportunity with our European semester. You have not even mentioned one item of what will be on the agenda for the next meeting, and that makes us very much concerned. I close my speech, Mr President, with a general consideration, and I refer back to what Senator Monti said for life, on a general aspect: the image you are giving of Italy in Europe and in the world. You bought an Airbus that no one is likely to be able to drive; you came back today with a window broken by Argentina; Minister Guidi did not go to the steel table in Europe and sent his messenger, who did not let in; one of our vessels was kidnapped by France, because they ratified the Treaty and we didn't; a foreign guest comes and you cover the statues; go to an international meeting in the Arab Emirates, they give you Rolexes and you grab them. You came here recklessly and didn't even say half a word about the Regeni case (and I think something will be said in Europe). I'll ask you a question and close my speech. If the show we're watching is basically a funny show, what do you think the actor is like? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u103	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u104	Mr President, this European Council undoubtedly takes on a broader political significance than the specific proposal that you are going to discuss on the single market, energy union or the fight against terrorism. Indeed, it seems to us that there is much more at stake, the very future of European integration. Faced with the difficulties in managing migratory flows, problems related to internal security, we are witnessing attempts to dismantle the pillars on which our being together is based: from the suspension of the free movement of Schengen in six Member States, to the difficulty of implementing migrant relocation agreements. Six member countries have suspended Schengen, including two founding countries whose political and economic rapprochement has been the basis of the process of European integration, Germany and France; this suspension has preceded the inescapable revision of the Dublin system. These are attempts to restore sovereignty within national borders. By borrowing the title of President Napolitano's lectio magistralis, national identities and European self-consciousness in the new world horizons, they cannot be regarded as antagonists, but as driving forces for the strengthening of European political unity, of a regional area to which the world horizon demands to play a role of greater protagonism in the context of these new balances and old priorities and values. From this point of view, Mr President, it seemed to us that the document of the five Presidents (ECB, Eurozone, Commission, Council and European Parliament) which should have marked since 2012 the consolidation of common interests towards greater economic integration, banking, fiscal, but also social and above all political, as you claim, because no idea of construction can stand if it is not based on a wider scaffolding, that of the political unity of European institutions legitimized by a European people who can look to Brussels not as a seat of an asphytic bureaucracy, but as an authoritative field of federal government. The sovereign nations are no longer the framework in which we can think of solving the problems of the present, its complexity and the new geopolitical scenarios. The words of Jean Monnet are dramatically current and still effective today in the face of new walls and barbed wire that will never be sufficiently resistant to the force of phenomena of global scope. Accepting those fleeing from wars and persecution is not a compassionate concession but a duty and obligation enshrined in international conventions signed in the aftermath of the horrors of the Second World War. The right to life is a universal right of all, regardless of where you are born or who you run away from. President, in these seventy years of trial, internal security and increased external border controls are no alternative to the management of reception and protection of refugees, as well as the issue of judicial and police cooperation against terrorism, the strengthening of the European EASO Agency and the registration and identification hotspots are no alternative to the process of integration and strengthening of the European Union. We are talking about external borders in front of a single internal area of free movement, a single external border within the competence of the European Union, as is imposed on us and required by the Lisbon Treaty, which already speaks of Articles 77 and 78 of the common European immigration and asylum policy. Mr President, you are right to ask for flexibility for the expenditure we have incurred on immigration because it is European policy and the resources must be European. I shall conclude by saying that neither the path taken by the island of Ventotene nor the whole of the values of European integration is negotiable. It is not enough for the European Commission to call on the Member States to be faithful to economic and financial parameters and indicators; it must remind us of the fidelity and the reasons for the joint project to build a united Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u105	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I note that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Calderoli and Centinario, No 2 (text 2), Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, No 3, Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 4, Senator Centinario and other Senators, No 5, Senator Candiani and other Senators, No 6, Senator Catalfo and other Senators, No 7, Senator Barani and other Senators, No 8, Senator Bonfrisco and other Senators, No 9, Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators. The lyrics are in distribution. I call on the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Renzi, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u106	Mr President, if you allow me, it will then be undersecretary Gozi who will explain the views of the Government. Mr President, Senators, almost all the speeches in the debate have been very interesting and I believe that there can be a reply from the Government, but also from my own personal point of view, from the philosophical point of view, to what the President of the Council, Emeritus Mario Monti, said about Europe (it is not said to be President of the Council emeritus, but I have said it too; you can pass it on to me, at least this one). I start from the thoughts of Senator Mazzoni, whom I share, particularly in the part where he has had the happy intuition to define Italy as a country that is doing its homework, while Europe is not doing it yet. I think like him on this and I don't think I'm accusable of mischievous majesty; nor do I think it's a way to fail in our history; rather, allow me to be explicit (I believe that these debates should serve in this direction too). The six-way Europe is born with an extraordinary intuition and we will never be grateful enough to the founding Fathers for having had that extraordinary vision and vision. We do not have the time and the means to discuss the limits with which the project started; in a nutshell I say only that the French responsibilities on common defence do not go back to the last six months, but to the last seventy years. It is wonderful to re-read the statements of the Foreign Ministers or Heads of Government signing the Final Declaration and the two Treaties establishing the Communities in the Oraz and Curiazi Room. At the time there was a basic idea; the goal was not to put the raw materials together, starting with coal and steel, but to use coal and steel as an opportunity to go towards that design that Spinelli had defined, with visionary foresight - to which Senator Ginetti - the United States of Europe in Project of a manifesto. I find that from this point of view we have taken a very important and significant step forward. However, over the years Europe has shown an impressive capacity for growth and it has had a moment, which we can place between the nineties and the two thousand years, in which it has chosen a process of openness - let me say - perhaps even too fast. A process of enlargement that has led us over a few months to move from 15 to 28 and I support, assuming its responsibilities, that Europe to 28 is either too much or too little. Too much, for the model that had been imagined and that had resisted up to the Europe of 15; too little, compared to what Europe needs today! Just think of the fact that (it would be interesting to deepen this debate) we continue to think about the immigration issue with regard to Syria (sacred and certainly none of us can think that three billion is enough for the Turkish Government to solve the problem) and we continue to discuss Africa (and we are at the forefront of saying that it is a priority), but the big issue about European identity is posed by the Balkans, by those countries that are currently outside the European Union. Let us convene meetings, as we are doing, with our friends in the Balkan countries and see what they say about the seriousness of the situation in that part of the world. Talk to Edi Rama, Prime Minister of Albania, and let yourself be told what the radical Imams said in Albania when for six months it was decided not to approve Albania's request to become a candidate for membership. Europe, at some point, has stopped and, in my opinion, today (this is the problem) is living with tactics rather than strategic design. We see it on immigration, we see it on economic policy, we sometimes see it on the order of the Councils' work, where priorities seem to be more dictated by the urgency of responding to media issues, than by a strategic plan on the future of Europe. To say that does not mean wanting the evil of Europe, but precisely the opposite. It means wanting a Europe, as Senator Ginetti said, that has the characteristic of responding to the challenges of our time. From this point of view, I can only support, from the first to the last word, the earnest appeal of Senator Zeller from the philosophical point of view, but also practical: the Brenner is what Zeller said in a wonderful way. I understand the Austrian political debate; Senator Zeller and the Senators of his Group will certainly do it better than I do. It is a debate dominated by fear, it is a debate dominated by risks (it is not only about Austria). I have happened to discuss these days with Mark Rutte, the Dutch Prime Minister and the President-in-Office of the European Union, about isolated Italy, and during this debate we not only carefully reasoned on the issues of growth (on which I will then come to respond to President Monti), but he gave me a picture of the Dutch political situation (which will go to the vote, if I am not mistaken, in March 2017) full of difficulties and complexity precisely on the issues of fear and immigration. So we understand the difficulties of the Austrian political debate. But at the same time we think that the Brenner connection cannot be just a tunnel, however beautiful and wonderful, that we are all funding and that we are enthusiastic protagonists of one of the most beautiful pages of engineering: it is the word end to centuries of wars and centuries of opposition and difficulty. From this point of view, it will then be necessary to have common sense, patience but also a lot of tenacity to deal with the issue of the eastern border, as someone imagines. I do not answer Senator Lucidi because he has put together a series of circumstances on which I struggle to follow him, evidently because of my difficulties. I turn to Senator Lucidi, whom I see in this House. CATALFO (M5S). He's here! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I have said that I see him in this House. It's a sentence that makes sense. Then you put the point and you start again. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] The fact that Senator Lucidi was quite quietly talking about more or less does not allow us to discuss the substance of his brilliant introduction, in which he spoke about the elections. I would like to say to Senator Lucidi, because I was not clear, that when I said that it is good for the British to vote as soon as possible, I was referring to the referendum and not to the elections, that there have already been in England in 2015. [[Applause from the PD Group]] None of us imagines that we should set the general elections before or after the municipal elections in Rome. We know that you are afraid of a great plot on the Municipality of Rome and we are in solidarity with you. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] But I assure you that the debate at stake at this moment is about the European Union and not the understandable need to run for office for the Municipality of Rome people who deny the historical roots of this country, even denying what happened during Nazi-fascistism. TAVERNA (M5S). Who are you voting for? Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. But what I want to point out to Professor Monti is that if the narrative doesn't convince him, I think it's completely correct. But, as Professor Monti has done, I agree with the points which unite us, and I agree with President Monti that he has served this Country in a very difficult and really very delicate moment and to have made a personal effort, as well as institutional, to be recognized to Italy credibility and authority in a confused dynamic, full of internal fibrillations but, let me say, above all external. But what I point out to Professor Monti is what I do not agree with him, that is, the installation and the approach he had in judging Italy and the Italians. I do not make a ranking of governments based, not on narrative, but on numbers, because when he - gracefully and with the style that we all recognize him - accuses me of having produced an element of non-compliance with the rules, I would like to remind you that on the part of this Government there is the utmost care to minimize the infringement procedures of the European Union. When you left the government, President Monti, these procedures were 104; today they are 91, decreasing; and it is the record for the number of infringements we have. We started, in February 2014, with 119 infringement procedures. I am not just referring to the implementing decrees, which I consider to be one of the key points (when you left, there were 475 decrees of your government that were to be implemented; we implemented about 345 of them). I am not referring to the deficit: in 2011 it was 3,9%; in 2012 it was 3%; and now it is, in our opinion, 2,4% and, according to the Commission, 2,5%. In any case, it is the lowest deficit ever a Government of the Republic has had in the last ten years. Therefore, on the subject of compliance with the rules I do not accept lessons, because I consider it a value. I believe that this government, numbers in hand, is demonstrating that infringement procedures must be reduced (and we are doing this); that the pending burden of implementing decrees must be reduced (and we are doing this); that the deficit must be reduced and that the curve of the debt-to-GDP ratio must be reduced, which unfortunately has risen steadily since 2009. Sure, it's like this: and why? Because there has been an international crisis. An economic crisis has arisen. But this economic crisis - and these are the two points on which I disagree with Monti - has as its cause, in my opinion, not Italy in its - it would like to be believed - congenital inability to comply with the rules. I defend the very idea of Italians, because the story of Italians unable to respect the rules and anyway always the last wheel of the cart comes from a certain culture - and Monti is right - of an anti-Italian style that there is in large part of the public opinion, especially Anglo-Saxon, that is denied by facts and reality. The problem is that it finds itself in a certain pedagogical approach of a part of the Italian leadership group that, in the inability to solve the problems in the last twenty years, has painted the Italians as unable to do anything. On this, President Monti, I tell you with the affection and esteem that you know, I cannot agree, because the story, that we have self-imposed, of a country that does not respect the rules, does not match reality. If you have the Chief of Government say that he has had the most success in the fight against evasion. [[Applause from the PD, AL-A and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] You will allow me, because if you quote the data of the escape, I tell you that in the year 2015 the level of recovery of the evasion has reached 14.8 billion euros and is the historical record in Italy. To this must be added the solutions that we have finally found, for example, on voluntary disclosure, in the agreement with Switzerland, the Vatican and Liechtenstein (not just say Switzerland), solutions that, of course, could have been found before, that if they arrived only today and that, if they had arrived fifteen years ago, five years ago or three years ago would have achieved greater results in terms of revenue. If we add this, we must recognize, dear President, that there is a theme of self-telling, not of numbers. Of course, Italy goes to Europe with the knowledge that we can do better, and in fact we have put ourselves on a good buzz, as we say in our parts, to fix everything that had to be fixed and that was still: the electoral law, a dossier that has passed also on the table of its Government; the reform of the Constitution, a dossier that was discussed for years; the reform of the jobs act and of the labour market, which then could not be done, of course, not for its responsibility, but because the political conditions did not allow it (it had this intention that was not supported by the facts). But the central point is that we first continue to say that Italy is the problem, when if others go to debate in Europe there is no one who does not team up and does not try to bring home the results for his country. I say then: yes, dear Italians, we must change; yes, we must fight dishonesty and corruption; but we cannot accept a design on ourselves that is a design, sometimes for pedagogical purposes, that was made by a part of the ruling class of our country that also slept an unjust sleep when there was, for example, to make choices such as bad bank or to permanently settle the capital of credit and the banking world of this country. This is the first point on which I strongly disagree with President Monti: Europe is not our medicine, which explains what to do and we take notes. If you reduce the debt you don't do it because at least so the Germans are happy. I reduce my debt because I think of my son, my nephew, my great-grandson; I don't do it to make a partner happy. But there is a second point, which is the great result of the Italian semester led by Pier Carlo Padoan, to whom I know the merits. The result of the European Semester, certainly not comparable to that of Craxi or Andreotti, is that we have returned to call the Stability Pact "Stability Pact and Growth Pact," obtaining flexibility compared to the fiscal compact and agreements made at a difficult time that would strangle our country. Let us be honest: I understand that between 2011 and 2012 decisions had to be taken with great impact, and few, in this House as well as in the other, can be taken out and said that they voted against. There was a particular political situation. But the fiscal compact and those budgetary rules would have destroyed Italy without flexibility. So it is very good that a procedure is opened on the trade surplus to which President Monti rightly referred (depends on the Commission, not on us), but what cannot be accepted is that the result of the Italian semester led by Pier Carlo Padoan should be reduced as a minimum result, when we reminded the European Union that the Stability Pact has a name (Stability Pact) and a surname (Stability and Growth Pact) and that flexibility is the only way that the criteria of fiscal compact can find membership in this country. If we had the same deficit levels as those that are considered model countries, we would have between 30 and 50 billion euros of tax reduction possible. If we were to use a tent city like the one in Calais, we would have dozens of open procedures on immigration, and I rightly say that. If we had had the dynamics of scandals like those in other European countries, we would not have had the will or perhaps the ability to silence everything within a few months. We are a country that likes to tell the things that are good, but that sometimes self-inflicts much more criticism than it would deserve. It's all right, what has been done in the past, I don't context anything of what has been, but I take note that if there are some open dossiers on the table it's because you haven't had the strength to close them for the most varied reasons. If today, at last, there is someone who, in line with Italian history, tries to close the files that have remained too often open, it is not someone who is isolated and who does not want to address the real issues of contractual rules in Europe, it is someone who believes that flexibility, growth and values not only those related to austerity, are fundamental for Italy to return to growth. Otherwise, the operation was perfectly successful, but the patient died. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Barani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u107	I would ask the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u108	Mr President, on the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Centinario, the opinion is against it. On motion for a resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, the opinion is in favour. On motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, the opinion is in favour if Senator De Petris and the other signatories accept the following rewordings proposed by the Government. Starting from the commitments in relation to the United Kingdom: remove the first commitment, i.e. the paragraph beginning with the words: "to work" and end with the words: "Migratory flows"; "Migratory flows." With regard to migration policies: in the first paragraph replace the words: • to promote with the others: • to evaluate the possibility of promoting • to replace the words: • to propose with the words: • to reiterate the Italian proposals for achieving • to the third paragraph, before the words: • to allow • to insert the words: • to evaluate the possibility of promoting European initiatives aimed at • and, at the second last line, to stop with the words: • Member States • to remove the remaining part of the paragraph; • to the sixth paragraph delete the words: • to propose the revision of the • to the words: • to evaluate the possibility of extending the • to the seventh paragraph • to delete the following paragraph, which begins with the words: • to propose with the words • to the tenth paragraph, to replace the words: • to propose the revision of the • to the words: • to remove the • to take over the • to • to the • to take over the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to the • to replace • to replace • to replace • to replace • to replace • to replace the • to replace the • to the • With regard to Economic, Monetary and Banking Union: in the first paragraph, delete the period from the words: "avoiding the words: "New Deal": "a": "a": "a": "a": "a": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b":": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b":": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b": "b":": "b":":": "b":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":":" Reject any plan aimed at introducing a tightening on government bonds and continuing to work towards the rapid completion of the Banking Union, in accordance with the path proposed by the European Commission.In the fourth paragraph, replace the first period by the following: "to consider the possibility of creating a single treasury minister for the euro area, which should have two basic requirements" and, to follow, in point (a), delete what is in parentheses from the words: "around" until the other words: "decreasing" and the whole period after the words: "relaunching employment"; replace the fifth paragraph by the words: In the sixth paragraph, delete the words after the words: "financial transactions" in the seventh paragraph, replace the words: "to take concrete measures for the following: "to consider the possibility of initiating a debate with a view to: "and, in the same paragraph, to keep point (a) and to delete points (b) and (c); in the tenth paragraph, delete the next part of the words: "European transactions" in the second paragraph. With these rewordings, the opinion on motion for a resolution No 3 is in favour. The opinion on motion for a resolution No 4, signed by Senator Centinario and other senators, is opposed. On the motion for a resolution No 5, signed by Senator Candiani and other senators, which sounds a little familiar to me, I am in favour of it. With regard to motion for a resolution No 6, the opinion is contrary to the premises and in favour of commitments, if reworded as follows. The opinion was in favour of the first commitment. As for the second commitment, I propose to add the words: 'fighting at the same time against the abuse of this right, especially in the field of social security;'. The opinion is in favour of the third commitment, while I propose that the fourth commitment be reworded by replacing the period with the words: "to support" to the words: "to live in" with the following: "to reaffirm the need to revise the current commitment." As for the last commitment, I propose the following rewording: "to consider the possibility that refugees can apply for asylum in transit countries," also because it is difficult to ask in the countries of origin if they are discriminated against in their country. With regard to motion for a resolution No 7, tabled by Senator Barani and other senators, the opinion is contrary to the premises and in favour of commitments if reworded as follows: to the first commitment, to remove the part from the beginning of the paragraph to the words: "more specific points"; to the second commitment, to remove the period from the words: "even thanks" to the words: "competitiveness"; to the third commitment, to insert, after the words: "Union" the words: "banking" and "replacing the whole period from the words: "strong" to the words: "existing problems" with the following: "also putting into place any act of competence aimed at giving stability to the European banking system". The opinion was in favour of the last commitment. With regard to motion for a resolution No 8, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, the opinion is contrary to the premises and in favour of commitments if reworded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I understand that Senator Bonfrisco points out that she is not in favour of any reformulation proposal. Therefore, it is useless to proceed with the illustration. Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Too bad, because it was two points that I could call aesthetics. The opinion on motion for a resolution No 8 is therefore against it. With regard to motion for a resolution No 9, tabled by Senators Paolo Romani and others, the opinion is contrary to the premises and to the first commitment. I propose that the third commitment be reworded, eliminating the period from words: "to improve" to words: "hot spots" existing and "hot spots." To the sixth commitment, I propose to replace the words: 'to request the intervention of the whole of Europe in order to strengthen the external borders of the Community' by the words: 'to reaffirm the need to strengthen the external borders of the Union'. On the seventh commitment, I propose replacing the words 'to ensure that they are applied by the words 'to reaffirm the need to apply'. Finally, I am opposed to all other commitments, which deal with matters which will not be discussed at the European summit.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u109	Senator Romani, do you accept the rewordings proposed by Undersecretary Gozi? ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, do you accept the rewordings proposed by Undersecretary Gozi? Mr Barani (AL-A). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris, do you accept the rewordings proposed by Undersecretary Gozi?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u110	Mr President, my answer will be articulated. I'll just give you the rewordings we don't accept. With regard to the request to make the first commitment with regard to the United Kingdom, we do not accept and maintain the original text. We do not accept the rewording of the sixth commitment to immigration policies and we fully support it with regard to the principle of decent reception and the closure of all detention centres. We do not accept the commitment to the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, on which the opinion is opposed. However, we are calling for it to be maintained and for the motion for a resolution to be voted on separately. Finally, the last point concerns the issue of the Treasury Ministry on which we do not accept the reformulation and prefer the original wording.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u111	Senator Catalfo, do you accept the rewordings proposed by Undersecretary Gozi?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u112	Mr President, we do not accept the rewording of the second commitment. On the other hand, we accept the rewording of the third and fifth commitments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u113	If the reformulations are not fully accepted, I believe that Secretary Gozi's opinion remains opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u114	Yes, Mr President, if the proposed reformulation is not accepted, the Government's opinion is against it. In the case of the second commitment of Resolution No 6, the controversial point could be to combat the risk of abuse. I would like to make it clear that in European legislation today there are gaps which in theory can give rise to risks of abuse of access to the social security system and I believe that it is in the interests of all and above all of those who want to protect the principle of free movement of citizens, as well as workers, to eliminate the risks and legal gaps which, in European legislation, can give rise to risks of abuse. It seems to me that this is an objective that should be shared by everyone. In any case, I confirm the contrary opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u117	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, we would like to ask for a separate vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u118	When the time comes, no doubt, Senator Catalfo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u121	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, the issues that are under discussion in this European Council are very much concerned with the basic rules of all European architecture: immigration, Schengen, Brexit and the revision of the Treaties. And while our President-in-Office, from the words we have heard in this House, so many words, dreams of the arrival of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the European Union as well, no one would have said, just a year ago, that the Schengen Treaty, which is one of the key architraves on which the founding treaties of the European Union were written, would have been called into question quickly. There is a great expectation around this summit, as these days the problem is taking on even greater scope. On the one hand, France rejected the idea of an automatic redistribution, on the other hand, Austria announced the imminent closure of the borders and the return of controls to the Italian passes, including Tarvisio, Brennero and Resia. I should like to add to Mr Zeller's words a remark that I had already had occasion to make to the President of the Council, in a previous speech and also in those often useless meetings that we hold with him at 8 a.m. with the other Leaders: in the trilateral agreements between the Italian, Austrian and German police, it has been a long time since those controls no longer take place at the borders of the Brenner, but they inexorably move southwards and have already touched Verona. Already in Verona the German police and the Austrian police go on trains, to control, together with our police, that migratory flow out of control. The attempt by Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia to persuade Macedonia to build a wall at the south border, in order to block the Balkan route, is even more worrying to us. This hypothesis opens up an even more serious consequence for Italy: that of seeing us return to the dynamics of a migratory flow, such as that which passes from Albania, which we have already had the opportunity to know in the 1990s. What has the Italian Government done and what has it said so far on Brexit? Nothing. In fact, if on the one hand he points his feet in the newspapers and becomes beautiful with the Italian press, on the other hand, on the concrete level, nothing happens at all. We learn from the press and from the words of the President that a position paper is being developed that summarizes the Italian position on growth, rigour and employment. I would like to say at an early hour, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good thing you woke up, too. However, a few months have passed since the rejection of our amendments to institutional reforms, just those which introduced the referendum instrument, as today is in the willingness of the British citizens. And it has been two weeks since the President of the European Council, Mr Tusk, announced the proposal that has been drawn up, yes, in cooperation with the European Commission, in order to offer a satisfactory and reassuring project for the British people on issues of interest to the British people, which are identical to the issues of interest to our people as to others. I am referring to the call for negotiations with the European Union on competitiveness, economic governance and the recovery of sovereignty, which is essential to clarify today the rules applied, especially in this time of crisis, and on social security benefits and free movement. (17.10 p.m.) (Following BONFRISCO). The Brussels diplomacy has been discussing the key points of our being together in Europe for months now and the Italian Government is only coming now, too late. This generated the question: who is the interlocutor with whom to discuss negotiations and negotiations in Italy? Evidently no one. And perhaps Professor Monti's words, if you listen, would help our Premier to collect less figurative. If it were true that the Government was interested in seriously reviewing some European rules, I wonder why it did not take advantage of the opportunity and breach opened by Britain. We were deluded that the Government really understood the scope of that negotiation, but that is not the case: everything remained firm to a simple letter between the British Foreign Minister and the Italian Minister Gentiloni. But an agreement between Italy and the United Kingdom on the English proposal for renegotiation was and is more desirable than ever today. And then, beyond the appearances in the newspapers or in the press conferences that are organized using the Parliamentary Assembly too, it would be good for us to move from words to deeds. The British proposal for renegotiation offers a path, an opportunity for Italy and for all those in Europe who do not want to remain close in the grip that saw, on the one hand, those who intend to obey the Berlin-Brussels axis in a pedissequ way, the creator of a statu quo to say the least disappointing and, on the other hand, those who only have a destructive approach to jump into the dark. We do not belong to this second category. I would like to focus in particular on the British Government's demands for the free movement of workers from other European countries, and I hope that our President-in-Office will remember tomorrow to discuss and achieve adequate protection for those working in the United Kingdom. Italy must in fact be among the first countries to pay more attention to this issue, since our citizens who have gone to England to earn bread are among the most numerous. Of course, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, our first action was to hold them in Italy and on this point we record the failure of your Government as that of others, because the flow of intellectual work that moves from Italy to other countries of the Union is impressive and this represents a further impoverishment of our country, even before a further debt, what is so dear to you. And before you tell the institutions of Ghana, as you have done recently and as you reminded us in this House, do something concrete. It is not only the citizens of Ghana who run the risk of spending the rest of their lives outside their territory, there are also the Italians. And, if the young people of Ghana are entitled to stay in their country, let alone the right of young Italians to stay in Italy. On the Dublin Regulation, it has to be said that within this legislation, in this way of dealing with migration, it seems that all institutions have finally understood the importance of a qualitative leap in their policy towards a phenomenon which by its very nature cannot be slowed down, but only managed as efficiently as possible. We hope that Italy is among the countries that can win the championship of efficiency, but I have an idea that this is not the case. At least ideally, this is borne out by the initiative of the revision of the Dublin asylum system, which the Commission intends to take up by the end of 2016, as the mechanism for allocating responsibilities for examining asylum applications was conceived when Europe was at a different stage of cooperation in the field of asylum, with flows of different nature and of different scope. Despite the good intentions of the European institutions, it appears that the legislative proposal to amend the Dublin Regulation is actually rapidly losing its relevance. Both the European geopolitical framework and the willingness of the Member States to share the burden of the redistribution of migrants seem to be moving in the opposite direction. More than anything else, this is what worries our mayors, not what the President of the Council said; they do not understand why they send themselves to the territory without migrant resources that are not managed at the origin. Dear President-in-Office of the Council, before giving EUR 3 billion to the Turkish Government - I hope you say this tomorrow - the European Union should ask Erdogan for clarity, because it is not acceptable that, on the one hand, it calls for an economic contribution to Europe in order to face the exodus of the Syrians and, on the other, it intends to bomb (and already does) the Kurds, determining the conditions for another exodus, which would again fall on the European countries and which, in the dramatic economic context such as the one in which we live, would bring us to our knees. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I remember your words a few days ago when, by wandring Europe, you said that you dreamed of a Europe that is more social and less banking. It would be enough for us to deal less with banks and more with the development of businesses and families, with regard to the reduction of the deficit that you so much denounced and quote, which is denied by a debt that this year, with your Government, on the occasion of the two laws of stability that you directed, has reached a historical record since 1861 (other than the last ten years!). Because if not, we risk drowning everyone: our economy, our people, our country, and we will not be satisfied with the consolation that we will drown in the sea of Ventotene. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u124	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would draw your attention to the fact that those who should set a good example before others have left. Having preached to the Assembly; the President emeritus Napolitano has left, so he does not care about the debate and the benches of the Government are more equipped than of Ministers or Subsecretaries present. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We appreciate the presence of Minister Giannini, Senators Vicari and Chiavaroli. The others, of course, have much more important commitments and not only to go to the House, as we can imagine. So much, that's a bit of the sense of respect you have for the end of the debate. Mr President, if you were still sitting here in your place, I would ask you to reformulate your resolution, your proposal, because I wonder how you cannot agree with what President Renzi said. Those who may now be a little distracted should be the most embarrassed, because I don't understand how PD colleagues can support one who preaches to the right and then goes to rip the votes to the left. In fact, what your President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers said today has nothing to do with that PD that you are still spending when you can do the Unity Festivals. In fact, if we need a lot of words, as we have seen in a reply which lasted longer than the whole general debate, it means - and he himself confirms this - that we have a great word as President of the Council of Ministers, who needs words to convince us that what he is saying has meaning. Mr President, I have to say that something has broken in the feeling between the President of the Council Renzi and his predecessor Monti and if I were President Renzi, I would be a little concerned, because President Monti seems to have given him, like that terrible character, good luck. President Renzi, be careful, because with words you can humiliate the markets, but the numbers, which are written with the red pen, yellow, green or blue, remain so, and on the numbers you do not cheat the cards. And if he goes to Europe with the pride with which he plans to dress then the Parliament of the Italian Republic, he will not find the same persuasive attention, but he will find the rigor of those who say: do you ask me flexibility? But then with this flexibility what do you do with it? The 80 euros you put in your pocket to get you some votes? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The 500 euros you put in your pocket to get you some votes? When we ask for flexibility, we must first realise that flexibility is widely used in Europe. The question is that Germany has a surplus that is now standing above 8% of exports, but that is not brought to the dock of defendants, the other countries have a deficit-GDP relationship that has nothing to do with rigour, while we, for ourselves, apply rules and then ask for flexibility not to make structural manoeuvres, but simply pre-election marks. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And I believe that in the end the resulting image is that of an unbelievable country! Then we tell Mr Renzi (and we ask Mr Giannini to tell him): be careful, because we have always said that we must go to Europe and beat our fists, but we must do it on the side of those who are credible, not on the side of those who go and be hysterical or of those who go and beat their fists simply because they do not like the rules of the game and then no longer play. Otherwise, the image that appeared on the 'The Economist', which we all remember with the boat that goes deep, Chancellor Merkel, the President of the ECB and behind President Renzi with the ice cream cone, unfortunately continues to be the image that not of him, but of all our country have in the rest of Europe. And with this, the economic recovery we don't hook it up. Credibility is done with numbers. I repeat: people can be deceived by words, but on numbers they do not betray each other. You're not credible. A government with a spread has fallen. Now the spread has gone from 92 to 152 and this has basically doubled the public debt. We have newspapers hiding the Greek situation that is exploding. Everything is domesticated, because in the rhetoric of the government the citizens must be kept calm. However, you are not credible because, when you say that the shooting is geared up, I invite you to turn around the streets and leave the blue car in the garage - the one you have not sold - and you will notice the shutters of the lowered shops and the unemployed in the square to protest. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] When you do your best for concluding agreements with other foreign states, there should be Minister Gentiloni here to explain to us how it can be that thousands of sea miles have passed from Italy to France without even Parliament having heard of it! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance should come here and explain to us why there is a close agreement with the Swiss Confederation that is kept hidden, with which the Government has sold out the borderers. Even today we are waiting for that agreement to be deposited and instead it is kept hidden, because it is convenient to shear the workers, precisely because they are bordering on the country. [[Applause from Senator Crosio]] You consider us border areas, at the limits of the empire. But those border areas are the ones that have kept this country's economy going, which have kept this country's economies lagging behind. But this country is not respected and it is the real country. You are not credible because Minister Guidi, who left yesterday, was to appear in Brussels, with 5,000 protesters from all over Europe beating their fists to respond to steel productions throughout the European Union that are being put in crisis by the Eastern productions of China and India. And as if Italy were not the second European country in the steel sector, Minister Guidi did not appear. She stayed in Rome and sent an employee of the Ministry, an executive who remained outside the door. To me comes to mind the image in which outside the door there was President Renzi and at the table there were, on the one hand, Merkel and Hollande and, on the other, for the Russian Confederation, President Putin. Italy was watching. That is the credibility and we can see it in fact: when Germany is no longer able to bear the burden of illegal immigrants, it obliges the rest of Europe to pay a EUR 3 billion bribe to Turkey and in that case the borders are closed. When the issue concerned the crossing of the Mediterranean, it was only an Italian problem. It is too easy to say: if they are illegal they will be rejected, they must be rejected, as President Renzi said. We have always said these things, but you do not implement them in practice. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In fact, those who hold the sheet of paper are not then accompanied to the border: a sheet of paper is put in their hand and thus become real clandestine around the country, without even knowing their destination. The expulsions and the repatriations are accomplished when the illegal is brought back to the country of origin, not when you put in his hand a sheet of paper stamped with written: Get out of here. That means taking citizens by the nose. On these things what is the credibility of the Government? You are not credible because you come here to make Gian Burrasca, saying that you go to Europe to beat your fists, but in reality you have not been able to defend our savers when they have been sheared with the banks failed in recent days. Germany, on the other hand, when it was to settle its banks, did so and abundantly, after which the bail in was imposed. You're not credible about these things. You are not when you say that you are going to Europe to defend savers, because in fact you have not and are not doing so. Dear colleagues of the Democratic Party, what the President of the Council of Ministers described is a country that looks a lot like the country of the wonders of Crozza. And judging by the very small amount of applause with which you accompanied your President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, I believe you have also convinced yourself that Crozza is much more credible than Renzi. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u127	Mauro Mauro (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I am very sorry that the President-in-Office of the Council saw the Council's intervention as hostile to the President-in-Office of the Council, Emeritus Mario Monti. It has, in my opinion, become rather a sober reference to some fundamental structures for the credibility of our country in Europe and not only, also for the very horizon that Europe is called to have in order to think of overcoming the ford of the difficulties it is experiencing. I am sorry for a very simple reason: because today, precisely, it is the reckless attitude of our Government and of the President of the Council that produces isolation for Italy and that produces conditions that every day appear more difficult so that the presence of our country is lived as a positive element of the international scenario. In essence, dear friends of the Democratic Party Group (but you have already understood this because the attitude and dismay of many of you testifies), the narration of President Renzi has arrived at the end of the line and today Renzi has nothing more to say because he is no longer considered representative of a country in danger, but the danger for the country he represents. [[Applause from the Senator Council]] And it is so true that - I am sorry for the absence at this time of the Minister of the Interior - the members of his party should remind the President of the Council that no later than fifteen days ago, celebrating the political assembly of the European People's Party of which New Right Centre is part, at the time when the representatives of the New Right Centre tried to defend the work of the Renzi Government the president of that political family, the French Joseph Daul, interrupted them saying: but how can you defend it if neither the socialists defend it anymore? He did so publicly, he did not do it in the closed of a council and there is not a single socialist leader who has been on the field since that day to defend the work of Matteo Renzi. There is not a single international leader who can afford the luxury of saying something that can counter the evidence, namely that the President of the Italian Council speaks in vain, as he did today when he said bischerate about the roles of Albania, Turkey and other countries, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, because he speaks without ever preparing to be able to enter into the merit of the role of an international power like Italy. So, my friends, our problem at the moment, in front of the European Council that opens up, is very simple. Someone has to explain to the President-in-Office of the Council (perhaps the Minister Giannini will be able to do so) that when he announces that he has done the school reform he must also know that in these days there are hundreds of schools that say that the Provinces write to him announcing that there will be no more maintenance of the schools, that there will be no more the contribution they originally gave to solving the problems. This means that the reform of the school has not been done and announcing false reforms in the European context is tantamount to lying to us, that is to say to have fundamentally undermined the credibility of an institution like our country in the European context. But how can I say 'I did constitutional reform' knowing that I had to hold a referendum in October on which, moreover, I was also politically committed to going home? What reform is a reform that is not there? What reform is a reform like that of the jobs act that has all the premises to be a good operation and that, lively, needs to have the comfort to wait for the third year there to be feedback not that they increase the contracts, but that they increase the orders for which the enterprises can think to continue to hold on to those that with the jobs act have been transformed from precarious workers into stable workers? What reforms are they? That is the essential problem. Moreover, the level of preparation which the President-in-Office puts on the European game was well understood when he mentioned Brexit. Have you, dear friends of the Democratic Party, understood what the Italian position will be tomorrow at the Council, when it will have to discuss Brexit? What will Italy propose? What is Italy committed to? What does Italy consider to be a problem in itself of what can be granted to the United Kingdom? What does Italy want to spend instead so that you are actually the protagonists of this new season? The truth is that it is not with approximation and it is not with the narration of things that are neither in heaven nor on earth that one succeeds in having a role on what can be the good destiny of our country. Then I would like to ask the friends of the Democratic Party, in the knowledge that they have now matured that the experience of the Renzi Government has come to an end, to give him a good advice: not to see hostile veins in the intervention of Professor Monti, but to treasure instead to repent, albeit in limine mortis. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u130	GAMBARO (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our motion for a resolution we have explained in an analytical way the underlying reasons for our political position. I refer to it, therefore, for the necessary insights. The method we followed was above all to make numbers speak, in order to avoid the pitfalls of a purely ideological debate. As it was, moreover, what took place mainly on the pages of the main Italian newspapers. Against the background of all reasoning, it must be the punctual analysis of the serious turbulence that characterizes the international situation. From a political point of view, because of the dramatic events in Syria and Iraq, with its immediate consequences for millions of individuals forced to flee from those horrors. From an economic and financial point of view. The great volatility that characterizes the stock exchange and the evolution of the rates of sovereign debt securities, whose divergences, in terms of spreads, light alarm bells that were hoped, for some time, disabled. Although few prone to pessimism, we cannot fail to note how once again, in the debate among financial analysts, the spectre of a possible sinking of the euro reappears. A smaller coin that could understand - as it was written - only the "hard core of the North," including France. These turbulences are nothing but a reflection of much greater trauma. At their origin is the great deflation that freezes the entire planet. Falling prices, liquidity trap, growing underutilisation of productive potential, rising unemployment: these are the most striking symptoms. They are accompanied by the development of growing macroeconomic imbalances, which segment the international and European realities. On the one hand, countries that also resist the great cold of stagnation. Others - the weakest - are forced to suffer the greatest and most dramatic consequences. Just think of Greece, again in the grip of the possible default, or Portugal. But it is the Eurozone itself that is being crossed by deep lacerations that risk wrecking the great European dream. What was to be an island of prosperity and progress, the world's most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy, as stated in the Lisbon Treaty, has up to now recorded the lowest rate of development of the entire planet, with an average annual growth of 0.42%, the lowest ever of Japan, whose deflation dates back, however, to the early 1990s. In order to have a benchmark, the United States, in the same period, grew at an average annual rate of 1.3%. Three times that. This will have to be dealt with at the next European Council, the agenda of which, however, risks adding up issues that do not have the same political value. To clear the field it is good to say, in advance, that the English story must be treated with great caution. We must not allow each other to favour Brexit's supporters. It is therefore necessary to recognise the good British reasons for social benefits and free movement, but also to know that there are non-negotiable principles. In other words, it is not acceptable that Britain should interfere with future European decisions on public finance without taking any responsibility. If this were to happen, no one could rule out a domino effect on the part of all the other countries of the European Union. The thorniest point of this summit is, however, another: what Donald Tusk, in his letter to the members of the European Council, classifies as economic governance. On this subject it is necessary to draw the attention of the Senate and the Government. In our resolution we went to the background, to the analysis of that document, which dates back to June 2015, whose title is "Completing the Economic and Monetary Union of Europe," better known, however, as the document of the five Presidents, for the list of participants in its drafting: Jean Claude Juncker, Donald Tusk, Jeroen Dijssebloem, Mario Draghi and Martin Schulz. A balanced and widely shared document, characterized by a solid welding between objectives to be achieved and scanning the time needed to achieve results without forcing. I would like to stress these two points from the outset, because in the debate over the last few days this balance has partly been missed, in the search for solutions which I believe to be wrong, aimed more at defending the current status quo than at providing solutions consistent with the dramatic problems that are at the root of the European crisis. This was demonstrated in the document, signed by Jens Weidmann, President of the Bundesbank, and Francois Villeroy de Galhau, Governor of the Bank of France, which was widely publicised by the Italian and foreign press and became the subject of strong controversial discussions, to which the President of the Council himself spoke on a perfectly acceptable position. The main argument of contesting the diktat, which is reflected in the force of the five Presidents' document, contained in that speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. GAMBARO (AL-A). I'm almost done, ma'am. The alternative is that either we agree to the rapid establishment of a European Treasury Minister or the budgetary rules will have to become even more stringent. In short, it is again the reposition of a net line of austerity, without any reflection on its effectiveness and the failures that it has caused over the years that divide us from the crisis of 2007. Theses are unacceptable, all the more so when compared to the above-mentioned document where, on the other hand, it is stated that as the eurozone evolves towards genuine European monetary union, the need to take certain decisions collectively will become increasingly acute, while ensuring democratic control and legitimacy of the process. A future euro area treasury could be the right place for this... PRESIDENT. Senator, you had five minutes at your disposal, and at the moment you've already used eight minutes. GAMBARO (AL-A). I thought I had ten. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I think the others have already been used by Senator Monti. GAMBARO (AL-A). But I'm not a member of Senator Monti's Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. For the AL-A Group, Senator Mazzoni spoke then. GAMBARO (AL-A). But not in an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is a total of ten minutes per Group and has already used 13 minutes, so finish or deliver the remainder of your speech. GAMBARO (AL-A). I'll finish. They are, therefore, alternative proposals, and regret that authoritative commentators have seen in the rejection of these latter positions the risk of a rising anti-German feeling. That is not what we wanted to say: we are for the German people. [[Applause from the AL-A Group and Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u133	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the next meeting of the European Council will be devoted to decisions of absolute importance for the future of Europe, namely the search for an agreement on the reforms required by the United Kingdom with a view to the referendum on the permanence or exit from the European Union (so-called Brexit), as well as on migration and refugees. The hope - in line with what the President of the Council has announced - is to achieve, through indispensable mediations, a solution that takes into account the political and peculiar situation of countries such as the United Kingdom, but that does not yield to downward compromises, harmful or potentially harmful for the future of our country and for Europe. The four thematic areas taken into account (economic governance, national sovereignty, freedom of movement and welfare, internal market and competitiveness) are not independent and unrelated, but are also directly related to the issue of migrants and refugees. A series of solutions that will have to strengthen the European Union, the UK position within it and the British people's consensus towards the European Union. The absence of an agreement cannot be allowed to lead to an exit from the United Kingdom. The proposed changes are the basis for effective and non-discriminatory negotiations for anyone. In fact, leaving the European Union would result in a considerable social and political divide and would also have substantial financial and economic consequences. Losing London, however, is not only a loss for our country. One of the two European members of the Security Council; a dynamic financial centre; an indisputable attractive model for the younger generations; a vital economic player in the single market. The European Union - already hit by multiple crises and growing asphyxiation - cannot, literally, To afford it. Finding a solution is therefore necessary and crucial, not only for the future of Britain, but for the future of our Europe. I firmly believe that the solution must enable London to be kept in Europe on conditions which do not, however, affect the positions of other fundamental States of the Union, first and foremost Italy. I am convinced, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that the Italian Government will bring concrete proposals on the European table to promote cooperation and negotiation, avoiding European disintegration and trying to change the direction of social and economic policies. I repeat, however, that cooperation and broad understanding of the details of the proposal must not leave room for the failure of risky compromises which could undermine fundamental and founding freedoms of Europe itself. I am referring in particular to non-discrimination and freedom of movement. The negotiations under way with Great Britain must not provide for concessions which undermine fundamental rights, such as the aforementioned freedom of movement of persons. Above all, it must not constitute a precedent for negotiations with the other Member States. The possible exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union could also create a predictable risk, a precedent whereby other European countries could call for new concessions that could represent a backward step in the process of Community integration and in the European decision-making process. I also believe - also in line with what Minister Gentiloni said in recent days - that the greatest concern could be that a Brexit would feed the anti-European push in the area and encourage other governments to call such referendums. I hope that the agreement with London will be reached with shared solutions and I am sure that the Italian Government will work to find acceptable mediations to put Europe back on track. Anti-European propaganda must be avoided, because populism is a serious damage to Europe. In conclusion, Mr President (just 30 seconds) the European Union is in real danger of its very existence. These dangers could lead to a crumbling of the European community if we do not find solutions that are shared on the key points of competitiveness, economic governance, sovereignty and solidarity. At this point, I would like to point out that two fundamental principles have already been mentioned in Article 80 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union: the principle of responsibility and solidarity. I therefore support the content of the communication which has been put to our attention and I am sure that the Italian Government will be able to work to achieve solutions of mutual satisfaction at the European summit, also in order to rebuild confidence. Citizens' trust in the European institutions and mutual trust between States. [[Applause from the Group (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE), AP(NCD-UDC) and Senator Zanda.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u136	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the first item on the agenda of tomorrow's European Council meeting is very sensitive and concerns the possibility, through the referendum, of a possible UK exit from the European Union. We certainly agree with the opinion that Renzi and other colleagues have expressed, that it would be absolutely serious for the United Kingdom to leave. But I would like to say with equal frankness - and I am also addressing my colleague Mr Bonfrisco - that in our view it would be equally, or perhaps even more dangerous to try to avoid this outcome through negotiations which will ultimately lead to a very, very high price. In our view, the United Kingdom's demands on social security and restrictions on the movement of workers are totally unacceptable. To accept, as might happen, to exclude from welfare the new residents for a few years would really call into question one of the founding principles of that Europe that President Renzi sometimes comes here to describe us, based on the centrality of the person and, therefore, also on an idea of solidarity. In addition, this would also mean opening the door to other Member States, precisely in relation to the suspension of the Schengen agreements. I believe that the result would be absolutely fatal for the future of Europe. On the other hand, we are in a very difficult situation. What is happening, the position taken by many European countries, the construction of the walls, the closure and the threat of closing even walls at our border (I think the Brenner) tell us that if we really came to a suspension of the Schengen agreements, we would almost inevitably have the end of the Union. With just as much conviction I believe that the Italian Government should oppose any temptation to give life to Europe at two speeds, in which closer cooperation links would be established between a group of strong countries of northern Europe and everything else, left absolutely out. If we really want to save Europe's future, there must be a clear issue which is certainly not a question of less political integration, but of greater political integration that can save Europe. On economic and banking matters, I would like to say something very clearly to Senator Monti. It is well known that we have very different views, because we have felt and continue to feel stubbornly (I think we were right) that austerity and fiscal compact policies in Europe have not, in fact, led to an exit from the crisis. In fact, what is happening in these weeks tells us that they have been policies of a recessive nature. Just in view of the Italian semester, we asked the Italian Government - I remember the motions for resolutions that we have tabled - to build an alliance in Europe with other countries precisely for the questioning of these policies. This is a reversal of the trend. And I believe that only and only to ask for some flexibility (among other things not invested to really and seriously favour an economic recovery and, therefore, a serious investment, but for other operations that we have recently seen in the law of stability), remember only today, and not when we had the opportunity to the European semester, that those policies certainly did not help neither Italy, nor Europe and mention the United States now, when for months and months, especially in the European semester, it has done nothing good to Italy from any point of view. I would also like to remind you here that when you asked about the Greek affair to build an alliance to question and ask for a conference on debt restructuring, making a serious argument about what fiscal compact means and starting to discuss seriously, another choice has been made. Today we cannot come to propaganda any more because it is not a sign of seriousness. We cannot continue to come here and tell the story of the electoral law, constitutional reforms and jobs act, continuing to bring data that only concern contracts and not jobs, thinking that at this point everything is linked to the issue of flexibility. Sure, greater flexibility but to face the question of the question of the fiscal compact and those austerity policies and to use, if necessary, that flexibility for serious public investments to relaunch our country. We have said it and said it again and we have repeated it in this resolution. I shall conclude, Mr President, by talking about migration policies. I would just like to say one thing: we - and we have put it in writing - do not agree at all on the issue of Turkey. I say this because it is one of the issues on which we have discussed most in this last period. We also call once again, formally and seriously on the Government to call for a new debate on the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, which provides for the payment of three billion euros because I believe that a serious country that talks about human rights cannot give three billion to another country that, as we know, behaves differently and does not respect human rights. In fact, we would pay to build detention centers. What happened in Libya wasn't enough! On this point remains our most total dissent. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-AEcT Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u139	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to be brief because I see that this debate has exhausted its pathos with the duet/duel between President Monti and President Renzi. I must say that I am grateful to President Monti because he has raised some issues that also respond to a widespread sensitivity, as the President of the Council has done well to respond with a certain polemic vis that is not bad because here it is a question of understanding us well and to understand well what the path that our country wants to take. So let me just give you two comments on the substance of the European Council. With regard to the subject of Great Britain and the so-called Brexit, we are all in agreement: the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union would cause serious injury to the Union itself and perhaps also to the United Kingdom, but in this case, from our point of view, we must take care of the destiny of the community that has been set up by the great protagonists of the post-war period who identified Europe and the Atlantic choice as the common ideal. If the United Kingdom leaves the European Union, I believe that the injury in our European building will be irrecoverable and I really hope that the negotiations between the European Union and Cameron will be successful and that it can somehow be endorsed by the popular vote. Secondly, with regard to migration, I am not talking about immigrants or migrants, I am talking about migration and I would like to say to all my colleagues that this is a global matter. If we open international televisions in the evening we see that the theme of migration is present everywhere: from Mexico to the United States, from Haiti to Santo Domingo, from Burma to Singapore. It is now a phenomenon linked to globalisation and to two fundamental problems one of which is the need - people who have no food go where you can have a hope for the future - and the other is the loss of traditional status; States jump, there is terrorism, people are afraid and run away. Think about what happens in Africa and the planetary migration that comes. Once it was a migration of necessity, today it is a migration also due to terrorist phenomena such as those of Boko Haram or al-Shabaab and so on. We believe that the action that the Italian Government is taking, for example, with economic diplomacy in Africa and the Mediterranean, is very important. Italy must make it clear to Europe that the Mediterranean must be among the priorities of its neighbourhood policies, otherwise Europe will not be saved. And this proved to be tangibly. They do not arrive only in Lampedusa; today they come from Greece, because they come from Syria, because they arrive in Turkey, because the dissolution of the world that had established artificial borders after the First World War is today struggling with a planetary catastrophe. It is no coincidence that Pope Francis called it World War III in installments; I must say that, frankly, it is not a wrong expression and I share it. So, we have this problem. Can I just have a joke? We understand each other in this House, because we are all involved in the work. We must be very careful, because what is happening in the European Union is going to pick up some institutions, such as Schengen, which are our protective network and are the heart of Europe. When four countries such as Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland propose to make their own micro-borders, the consequence for countries like Italy is pernicious, because the idea is beginning to advance that Austria will associate with these countries, indirectly, and perhaps other countries will join. At that point, we risk no longer being the bridge to the Mediterranean, but being neglected, with other European countries of the Mediterranean, in a kind of European series B circuit intended to deal with all these problems, including those of refugees. [[Applause from Senators Susta and Di Biagio.]] I'll open a parenthesis and close it now. If you plan, as is right, to block through Turkey access to Europe from that Greek side, colleagues, the consequence risks being one, fatal for Italy: the migratory flow will return to be gravitating in our country through Albania and Libya. This is a dramatic consequence of any raised borders in that Europe that is losing its sense of identity and heart. It is clear that such a Europe sees countries like Italy, which have uncontrollable borders, as designated victims. If I may, I would like to refer here to the Monti-Renzi debate that we had earlier. What is the concern that many people have and that it is right to bring back to the President of the Council of a Government that we strongly support? The concern, faced with a Germany that is certainly in difficulty (Chancellor Merkel is not today, after such a difficult management of the issue of refugees, in the conditions in which it was a year ago), is the risk of losing the traditional consultation of the great leaders. President Monti quoted Craxi and Andreotti; the great policy and the best intuition of the so-called first Republic was essentially to establish a partnership between Italy and Germany and France. Germany and France need Italy, to be the locomotive of Europe, and we need them, because we have, with other countries like the United Kingdom, traditions, history identity and interests completely different. We need not to weaken this convoy of heads, because, weakening this convoy of heads and the traditional partnership with Germany, we end up being confined to a sector of series B, which preludes the marginalization of our country. I would not like to interpret Senator Monti, also because, historically, it did not go too well when I interpreted it (I say it with friendship to President Monti). I think, however, that he intended to raise a question that I am aware of and that I believe Renzi should warn. The delegations of German parliamentarians that we receive tell us that the relationship between our countries has weakened and that people in Germany think that Italians are the usual ones who want to violate the rules and have flexibility to do public debt. And many Italians think, in turn, that Germany is a little bit the selfish stepmother who poses the problem of everyone only and exclusively for her own interests. Now, in these representations perhaps a fragment of truth will also exist and the responsibilities of Germany, in an excess of selfishness, there will be as well. But we have to thin these clouds. First of all, it must reduce those who go to the European Council and are called to be, not least because of the great vitality and strength that our Government has today, a factor in rebuilding Europe's moral and political foundations, because otherwise we too indirectly end up being small pickers, but we cannot afford it. I believe that President Renzi's ambition is so high that he must not lower his bar to a level that is not appropriate for him and Italy. I think that this debate has been useful and we must thank those who participated in it, because when we talk about foreign and European policy in this assembly we gain an awareness that sometimes we also lack among our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u142	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, if I were to paraphrase and then summarize what the President-in-Office of the Council has said today, that the word 'Community' has been filled (a Community which cannot guarantee even in its own country, let alone in Europe), I should say that nothing comes out of all the concepts. I bow to the far-sightedness of the President-in-Office of the Council who, as usual, has come to talk to us about a Europe that does not exist. It has been the useless Italian Presidency that has been talking about an alleged EU change of pace on austerity; Today it has noticed that the European Union has not changed its economic policy a bit. That is why we see it being claimed in all locations a few additional decimals of deficits and the little that gets the waste in electoral tips, instead of using it to revive public investment and employment and for structural measures such as citizenship income. While the President-in-Office of the Council deals with non-existent victories, the European Council guarantees the United Kingdom respect for its political and economic sovereignty and favours it in the field of immigration, because it is strongly afraid of the referendum called by Cameron, a sacred right of Britain, as the President says. Just in accordance with the referendum, I would like to remind this House and this majority (just in respect of the citizens) that in the parliamentary classrooms a bill of popular initiative has already been deposited by the 5 Star Movement for the indication of a referendum on the permanence of Italy in the euro. What does this President-in-Office of the Council, appointed and not elected by those citizens who say he respects when he talks about referendums? He asks Europe... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I ask you to have some silence, because I have a low voice and I have difficulty speaking. [[Recalls of the President]] I was saying that it calls on Europe to be flexible on the basis of lack of reforms and to use budgetary constraints for its use and consumption, to sell out the latest national strategic companies and to put Italian savers in front of the bail-in nightmare. In this regard it is good to remember the recent ISTAT estimates on GDP 2015, as usual very far from government propaganda. We were told for months and months that GDP would rise by more than 1% in 2015; in official documents the government wrote +0.9%, except then corrected by voice stating that growth would stop at +0.8%. None of this: ISTAT estimates growth at 0.6%, and the rapidly deteriorating international picture suggests that the final figure will be even more disappointing. A result so poor, although in 2015 at least three positive economic events came to the aid of its Government: the rapid fall in oil prices, higher than expected; the devaluation of the euro on the dollar and other international currencies; the containment of interest rates on public debt. The truth is, without these positive events, our economy would still be in recession. Other than jobs act, decontribution and state begging; other than tricks to manipulate statistics on the economy; other than 756,000 permanent employment contracts, which nothing else are that transformations and nothing have affected the fall in unemployment in Italy [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; other than mundane labour reforms with English words that make people understand nothing and have nothing to do with European welfare systems. The President of the Council did not and does not have any credit for the sign "more" than 2015, and the Italians will soon notice, in 2016, when they will have to revise strongly downwards the estimate of GDP and the holding of public accounts, since the international situation turns to the worst. I conclude and would like to add the remaining part of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. CATALFO (M5S). In conclusion, I would like to point out that we cannot go and ask Europe for greater flexibility when we are aware that we have done absolutely nothing about growth, structural reforms, serious labour reforms, corruption and all that was to be done to bring back the 500,000 Italians from England. Whose responsibility is it to move tens of thousands of young people to England this year? Whose responsibility is it other than this Government? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u145	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's survivors, I believe that the optimistic views of the President-in-Office of the Council on the economy, taking the opportunity of this further information on European summits, are refuted by the facts. I remind President Renzi that public debt rose from 2,107 billion in February 2014 to 2,170 billion in the end of 2015; that the estimates on the deficit-GDP ratio have gone from less 1.4% in June 2015 to less 2.4% at the end of last year; that the tax burden from 2014 to 2016 has gone from 43.4% to 44.2%; that even nominal GDP growth has deteriorated compared to forecasts. I say this because the President-in-Office of the Council has rightly also boasted of the 700,000 jobs. Woe to deprecate or criticize a given that may appear positive. But let us remind President Renzi of the many occasions in which Senator D'Alì, with proposals and interventions, has found that this opportunity has been financed by subtracting 4.5 billion euros from the structural funds for the Mezzogiorno. Those funds will be used for three years, at the end of which this apparent employment bubble could burst and there would be no more cover for decontribution and all opportunities. So, we took some money out of the South, and maybe we created a deception. It's true that Renzi plays his game soon, and not to bring iella and make irony - like others have also done on the broken glass of the plane - but the "Finncial Times" has said in these days that, perhaps, Renzi's luck is over. I remember speculation, the polemic raised at other times by a newspaper not as famous as the English one, but the last of the last country, which did some cursive on the governments of center-right. Now also the "Finncial Times" begins to criticize Renzi, who, in turn, has put his finger in the plague talking about 2011. He is therefore beginning to discover that European events suffer a little, and that perhaps some choices such as the fiscal compact made in that way, as well as the events of 2011, the behavior of German banks and the sale of Italian public bonds are something that we well know, having suffered as a center-right majority of the time and as a Berlusconi Government the facts of 2011. Not surprisingly, today, we saw the curtain between Monti and Renzi, which creates a bush, a rift and perhaps a reinterpretation of those events of 2011. Welcome, then, dear President Renzi, if you will begin, even experimenting with European difficulties, to understand that perhaps the events of 2011, which we read in a certain way, did not go according to the reading that your political part had given, until celebrating those sad days for Italy. Maybe you're starting to read them differently today. But there will be a way to talk about this in the future. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] We want to say a few things about the European issue. There is objectively a lack of leadership in Europe. There's no doubt about it. And it does not seem to me that Renzi, who boasted that he was the leader of the party that I had the best European result of the left, right, centre and all the planetary platforms, has gained a significant leadership. Today we have a problem that Senator Bernini has also raised in the Commission these days. We are not happy that you are jumping Schengen. If it jumps and everyone closes their borders, Italy risks becoming a ghetto of all those who land in our country and that no one will move anymore. If France and Germany, which are together with Italy the founding countries that give an identity dimension - they believe they are more than Italy, but they are equal to us - begin to say that Schengen no longer applies, who knows what will happen. Dear President Renzi - I say this metaphorically - Austria now closes its borders and says that it will bring in 80 refugees a day. The situation is worrying. Then Minister Alfano says that we have cut down the Dublin Wall, in the sense that there will finally be a relocation of the various refugees. Where did we break down this wall? In fact, walls are being built in Europe. That's not true. So, the situation is anything but rosy. Even for the number of landings in Italy things are not so positive. Many are refugees who do not come from Syria, but come from sub-Saharan Africa. There is, therefore, a dynamic of migration flows very harmful and dangerous for Italy, which is not linked to the refugee status of other Middle Eastern contexts. Europe has given 3 billion to Turkey and Italy has borne its share, but there perhaps we will block some migratory flows going to the countries of Northern Europe, which, in turn, have met in Višegrad in recent days, led by Hungary of Orbán, which someone does not like, and which is part of the European People's Party and which I prefer to other members of it. There they are preparing in a very determined way to avoid a growing invasion. What do we do? Renzi has called for a breakdown from our debt of EUR 3 billion for immigration expenditure. Europe did not recognise this figure, which was used to tarnish the public accounts further, and in May they will let us know what they will recognize us. But did we spend 3 billion on further receptions? Then, the entrance increases were there; otherwise, if we did not spend those billions, the numbers of the entrances that Renzi says to be static would deny this greater public expenditure. Immigration policy is a disaster. We believe that the recognition procedures, fingerprints and the operation of hot spots are not adequate. We did not want to manipulate our resolution as the government demanded. Among other things, the government has said that the final considerations of our resolution concerning humanitarian cordons to protect Syrian refugees and the problem of sanctions against Russia that are damaging our economy are not relevant. We have a Europe that puts sanctions on Russia and then wants China to enter the market area, which is dumping and unfair competition for our producers. I wonder if this is a European policy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senator Council.]] Yesterday in Brussels the steel industry protested against Chinese unfair competition, not extremist groups. We rightly spend billions on reclamation of Italian steel plants and then import steel from China, produced under conditions of exploitation of people and devastation of the environment. This was discussed yesterday in Brussels and I am pleased that the Vice-President of the Taviani European Parliament has also taken part. There are, therefore, many things that are not right. Are the relocations working? It was supposed to be 80 a day for the refugees. 279 were made in six months. Minister Alfano is not present now, but perhaps he knows. The European Union, with the document discussed and approved yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, allocates EUR 50 million to relocate 20 000 people. But there are 20,000 people that the wrong policy of the Italian governments on the left leads to land in a month in Italy. Should we relocate 20,000 people to Europe? What are we talking about? With 50 million, when you give 3 billion to Turkey and Italy asks for 3 billion reimbursement. 50 million is ridiculous. Mare Nostrum and Triton operations, Frontex management: they're a disaster. As is also the EUNAVFOR Med, the further mission, which was to counter the hullers. We read words in the European Commission's document which it sent to all parliaments, but where is the fight against the boatmen? The European Union itself has calculated that traffickers of people in 2015 alone have earned EUR 6 billion. If they've earned that much, no one's fighting the rampant trade. Then we'll also pick them up halfway! Traffickers thank you! I don't know if they're making any money. I hope not, but we could ask them for a refund, since the European Union does not give it to us. It is, therefore, a continuous catastrophe. The European Union itself - not only the Renzi Government has encouraged the landing of illegal immigrants - must take decisions. That's why we need leadership and different decisions. Directive 115, so-called return, of the European Union dates back to 2008. It is mentioned in the document which I believe few colleagues have read, but which we discussed yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It mentions the eight-year-old Return Directive, but it is a total failure. Where are these reunions? [[Recalls of the President]] I'm about to finish, Mr. President. We're with each other. One more minute, give it to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u146	But no more.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u147	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Europe is talking about intelligent borders, about common border management, about the European coastguard, but where are they? No one is helping Italy in this emergency. Moreover, Italy does not carry out adequate recognition procedures, it transports illegal immigrants inside it and, therefore, in Europe they will think that we are happy that this is the way it is going. Instead, there are political forces that are not content and want to help those who suffer. But the government has prevented us, Mr Calderoli, from doing so because in the resolution we have tabled we are also talking about humanitarian cordons for Syria and many other things. Here, however, there is no mention of persecuted Christians, of massacred peoples. That is why, in the end, the fact that the Government did not share our resolution makes us happy, because we in this Government do not share anything at all. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u150	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, today is the time when we must be able to throw away old burdens that have become cumbersome, to be ready for the new that comes, so different from all that we had imagined; to discard the inept among the old and to arouse new energies among the young. Today we seek and meet, beginning to weave the plot of the future, those who have seen the reasons for the current crisis of European civilization and who, therefore, collect the heritage of all the movements of elevation of humanity, which were wrecked by misunderstanding of the end or the means by which to reach it. The way forward is not easy, nor safe, but it must be traveled and it will be. What I have said, Mr President, are obviously not my own words, but only of Altiero Spinelli, Ernesto Rossi and Ursula Hirschmann, contained in the famous Ventotene Manifesto, which is often referred to as one of the sources and sources of the idea of the European Union. In the heart of this idea, Mr President, it is precisely to throw away the old burdens. And the old burdens are this idea that had characterized the previous period, indeed the years in which the Manifesto was written (between 1941 and 1944), for which one had to discredit and fight frontally against one another. I believe that today the challenge is still open and that it is to renounce to delegitimize each other and seek instead, while respecting mutual differences and in the conviction of having positions even conflicting, mutual legitimacy as a heritage to which we cannot give up. And I believe that this is really the point on which we must now put a defensive line on which we cannot at all belittle. Today the idea that the European Union represents is the highest aspect that we have managed to achieve from the point of view of mutual legitimacy, and this is important. Every time the European Union has been able to recognise itself, crossing the border between the Ruhr and the Saar and starting from the conflict that has bloodied our borders, becoming recognized as a commonwealth of European peoples, it has advanced and produced wealth and progress. Every time we built walls and raised barbed wires, we took a step back. That is why tomorrow's European Council is particularly crucial, because the nature and the very reason for our being together are being called into question. On the other hand, it is important that the whole country and our Parliament should be united from this point of view. And I want to say to the members of my party, to the members of the Democratic Party Group, that whenever we are divided and do not recognize each other in the constitutional reasons of our party, we will be losers. And I also say that with reference to what has happened over the past few hours. We must recognize the mutual value of differences and try to create a synthesis. This is true of us, as a Group of the Democratic Party, and if we succeed in doing so, we will have a genuine European spirit. Europe has exactly the ability to make a synthesis of the different traditions, ideologies and cultural positions. We must move with this spirit, with our heads high, asserting the Italian positions. And I say this also with reference to some controversy raised about the low presence of Italian officials in the European institutions. The European spirit must not undermine the desire and the will to make us respect each other. Today Italy - and I say this to the Government - must be more represented in the European institutions, even in key positions. On 28 key potions - and I am not saying this to be anti-German, on the contrary - 18 are covered by high-level German officials. This - in my opinion - is something that must change in the future, precisely in the spirit of a mutual recognition and construction that also manifests itself in the choice of the key positions where it is decided. Finally, Mr President, there is the issue of migration, which has been mentioned many times in this debate, which is not just a problem of goodness against badness and security. It is a strategic problem on the future of Europe. Europe faces a huge crisis, even of a demographic nature, and we cannot help but address this problem. What is Europe's future? It is a question that Europe must ask itself in relation to the loss and ageing of its population. Looking for a great alliance with the countries around us, with the generous and enthusiastic forces that try to come to work in our country, is a great opportunity and a resource that we cannot neglect. Today we need, from a strategic point of view, to maintain our level of wealth, to reduce the macroeconomic and economic imbalances between the North and the South of the world, between the European continent and the world leaving the desert. As Fr Giulio Albanese recalled yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Africa is an extraordinarily resourceful continent, and we must be able to create balanced relations. From this point of view, I welcome the fact that the reform of international cooperation is being implemented. We need to put our hands on the old immigration law; to look more forward to the asylum law from a European perspective; to complete the reform of citizenship and to make a big pact with the migrant communities that, from my point of view, must be seen as bearers of those energy and hope that we are sometimes poor today. And we also see this in our debate when, instead of listening to us or thinking together about the future, we let it simply be an opportunity to insult each other as, unfortunately, has happened today. I conclude by repeating the words of Altiero Spinelli: The way forward is not easy or safe, but it must be traveled and it will be.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u151	Before voting, I warn you that in line with established practice, the motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u154	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask that the votes be taken simultaneously by electronic procedure, not before reminding you to have all the cards of the senators who are not present removed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u155	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Colleagues, since you must proceed to the vote, please reach your post; then, where there are weaves that do not correspond to the presence of the holder, the Secretary Senators will remove it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u158	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since many rich proposals for variations have been made in the wording of the opinions, we have not quite understood whether they have all been accepted by the authors or partially accepted or whether they have produced a favourable opinion or not. I am referring in particular to the first-signed resolution by Senator De Petris. I would ask you to make it quite clear what the opinions have been.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u159	I'm gonna get it straight. On motion for a resolution No 1, the opinion is opposed. The opinion on motion for a resolution No 2 is in favour. The motion for a resolution No 3 has not been accepted by the rapporteur for the rewording of points 1, 9, 12, 15 and 18 of the proposal, while a favourable opinion has been given on all the others; therefore, in accordance with established practice, we shall vote on the part on which a favourable opinion has been expressed and separately those who have received an opinion against it. On motion for a resolution No 4 the opinion is against, while it is in favour of Amendment No 5. On No 6, the presenters did not accept the establishment of the premises and the rewording of point 2 of the device. The proposed rewordings on Resolution No 7 were accepted. Finally, on motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 4, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). We're in kindergarten, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Casini, I'm an executor. My colleagues might be able to help Senator Secretary in her work. FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). There's a card right next to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm begging the parliamentary assistant to withdraw it. FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Senator Secretary has to come. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ferrara, I'll make the arrangements. He hasn't returned to his place yet. I allow you to stay there because we are talking about Europe. I'm begging the parliamentary assistant to pick up the card. Are we there? CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). No, no. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Alì, who's missing next to you? Senator Romani Paolo, there's a card next to you. Colleagues, if there is no intelligence to remove the card and facilitate the work, the vote becomes longer than the one in the House. AIROLA (M5S). Let alone vote on the laws! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Come on, colleagues, where the senator isn't here, take your card off, or I'll suspend the session. Then I want to see if you don't take them off spontaneously. We really look like kindergarten kids. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 2 (text 2), tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the points in item 1, 9, 12, 15 and 18 of motion for a resolution No 3 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators (continued the vote). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remaining part of motion for a resolution No 3 (text 2). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and point 2 of the motion for a resolution No 6 (text 2), tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u162	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, under my post there is a record of an absent senator. I'd ask the senator who sits in front of you to take it off. It's no use being smart here. I think it's Senator Messina, who's voting while he's absent. In this case the wizard of the diary exists, because it appears in present administrative terms. And I'd also like to ask you to take out the specific senator's diary.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u163	I'm begging the Senators Secretary to pull the card. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of motion for a resolution No 6 (text 2). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u166	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that Senator Giovanardi has just sat down at his desk and has therefore not taken part in the previous votes. If we keep doing this, we'll never move on. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u167	Senator Donno, I see him present and voting, so I can only confirm the outcome of the vote. We still don't consider retroactivity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u170	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, there was a misunderstanding and the Lega Nord Group unanimously voted in favour of abstaining on motion for a resolution No 6. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u173	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, the voting mechanism did not work for me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u174	Sometimes it happens, Senator Di Maggio. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 7 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 8 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Romani Paolo and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 9 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u175	The next item is communications by the President, pursuant to Rule 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2233: Measures for the protection of self-employed non-entrepreneurship and measures to facilitate flexible articulation in the times and places of employed employment, linked to public finances. I have read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Article 126a (2 bis) of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law in question: The Economic Planning Commission, budget, examined the bill in title, pursuant to and for the effects of article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, and after consulting the representative of the Government, notes that the deadline of January 31 indicated by article 7, paragraph 2, letter f), of the law n. 196 of 2009, for the presentation of the measures related to the maneuver of public finance, has not been respected, as the bill in title is submitted to the presidency of the Senate on February 8, but that the aforementioned term, however, on the basis of numerous precedents, can be considered as authorising. It also notes that the provisions of the bill are, as a whole, functional to the improvement of the efficiency of the labour market, in accordance with the Update Note and the 2015 Economy and Finance Document, and that they appear, moreover, to conform to the content proper to the connected to the maneuver of public finance, as sanctioned by article 10, paragraph 6, of the Law of Accounting. Taking into account the opinion expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission, examined the related bill no. 2233, pursuant to article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, taken note of the position of the Government, I inform you that the text of the measure in question does not contain provisions unrelated to its object, as defined by the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u178	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I am sorry to say this to you, but it would appear that there are still bribes and rigged contracts. In Lombardy, 16 arrests were carried out as part of an investigation into the regional health system. Fabio Rizzi, President of the Health Commission, was arrested, very close to President Maroni, on charges of association with criminals and corruption. With him were also arrested Mario Valentino Longo and Maria Paola Canegrati, called the queen of dental prostheses and head of the holding company that, according to journalistic sources, won the contracts. Two considerations must be made, the first of which concerns the alleged corrupt. So little time has passed since President Maroni's so-called night of brooms and it seems that the North League is not yet out of the ford. The second consideration is on the alleged corruptor. We are talking about a holding company that actually acted under a monopoly regime. And how did he get contracts? He got them by promising doctors and nurses complacent jobs to their family members. They were then found shares of companies registered to the compañeras of Rizzi and Longo and it seems to have been financed, even in full, the campaign of Rizzi, which - I remember - is former senator, as well as possible future senator, enjoying parliamentary immunity thanks to the "deform" of Renzi, Boschi and Verdini. Well, what did the citizens have in all this? It also seems to be a heavy failure in performance, if it is true that a tumor in the mouth has been treated as if it were a fungus. Then, on what is happening in Italian health care, and in particular in the dental field, we must shed light. We need to shed light on holdings that, like grass, are invading the market. And they are grass grass when we have reports of unfair commercial practices, of poor protection or even exploitation of the most skilled workforce, of the use of poor materials, which therefore do not give guarantees of rejection, and of asphyxiating advertising practices, which make health almost a product of widespread consumption. All this has been introduced, Mr President, following the Bersani reform, that of liberalization, which seemed to benefit citizens, resulting in increased competition, improved performance and reduced costs and, instead, has transformed health into a large distribution. Because of all this it is time to make a serious and profound repentance. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u179	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-579.ana.u180	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 23 February, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.43.
