ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 1 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on the position of the Government on the circular economy package and on reclamation operations involving industrial sites of national interest and waste management and disposal sites, to which the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Mr Galletti, will respond. Notice that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions about the government's position on the circular economy package. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u6	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I thank Mr Galletti for being here today. The work that is being done in Italy to overcome the linear economy and move towards the circular one is very important to our Commission and the entire Senate. From this comes a strong political will, which we intend to put in place so that Italy is an actor of great importance at European level and that there is a certainty of rules to which we would like to refer with regard to the subject that we would like to discuss with you today. The questions I ask you are as follows. With regard to Italy, Minister Galletti, is it considered essential to provide regulatory certainty to companies, in particular on the end of waste, which contains in itself the loss of the qualification of waste, which becomes secondary raw material? To date, we are still waiting for the criteria to be established at Community level and we are being asked, by the Italian business community, for a precise indication at national regulatory level. I would also ask you whether, in the medium and long term, you do not think it is appropriate to build a new framework law on waste, covering the many broken and misarranged rules, proposing the issue of the circular economy as a central, as a preventive cultural factor, including the definition of the plants necessary to implement this policy and to evaluate the proper disposal of recycling. I would like to know how we are set out from this point of view and whether a Ministry activity is in place so that we can work on a national framework law that sees us as a whole in the waste sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u9	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, achieving the circular economy is an objective that we all wish to see achieved and achieved. Obviously the variables in the field are different both in terms of the value of products and materials and in terms of the cycle of waste, which is difficult to achieve, especially in large cities. We know that, out of absurdity, the so-called recycling municipalities are, almost always, those which have the highest tax levy of the TARI on their citizens. The lack of an efficient secondary raw material market is probably the first brake on the circular economy. We know that various acts and instruments are dedicated to the circular economy in Europe, from the Horizon 2020 project, to the European Fund for Strategic Investments, cohesion policies and regional funds. So far there is a vision that seems to focus primarily on industrial waste or production sites, an area, however, where the recovery of secondary raw material is unfortunately an improper cost for companies. We have the impression that there is a lack of a strategy from the bottom up, that is, from the time of the collection of the main quantity of raw material to be included in the circular economy, the one that is used in the domestic environment. I therefore ask you, Minister, what incentive instruments the Government intends to put in place to create a sustainable and lasting circular economy, starting from the citizens and the lowest level of government of the territory, that of the municipalities, in order to reduce the tax on citizens in those virtuous municipalities from the point of view of recycling. I would also like to know what initiatives are being taken to prevent companies from burdening themselves further and to facilitate, where possible, a practice of re-use of secondary raw materials through the use of tax incentives.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u12	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, Minister, the question is unique: how does Italy address the assessment of the new circular economy package, even with due attention to the commitments of COP21, given that the assessment that is emerging in the Commission from the comparison between the Juncker package and the new package is, in our opinion, impiety? As regards the collection of solid urban waste, in the old proposal we had an assessment for 2030 that provided for the achievement of the 70% target, which is reduced to 65%, with a dangerous derogation for the Eastern countries, which will have a further five years, when 65 to 70% is an objective that many European countries have already achieved. As far as packaging is concerned, the same applies. The previous proposal had the objective of recycling to 80% for 2030 which is reduced to 75%. The reduction targets for landfilling, which were, in the previous proposal, 5%, are set, by evaluating only non-recyclable products; it is now possible to grant 10% of landfilling, without any difference between recyclable and non-recyclable products. It completely skips the obligation to separate the dry fraction from the organic fraction. It is an absolutely dangerous clause, because it will allow the wet fraction to burn down and sell it for energy recycling. In the previous proposal there was the idea of eliminating energy recovery as an assessment of material recovery. We are heading in a different direction from that of targets also for food waste; in the first evaluation was planned the target of a 30% reduction that now completely skips. It is clearly a gift to the incineration lobby and a loss to the recycling chain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u15	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, on 2 December last year the European Commission adopted a new package of measures on the circular economy. Italy has also shared this strategic choice in favour of the circular economy, with a view to a development that is sustainable and, in perspective, zero rejection and decarbonised. This is a choice which, among other things, is shared globally after the climate agreement signed at COP21 in Paris last December. Energy and environmental taxation, in fact, can be a lever for the development of work and the competitiveness of the Europe system, starting the transition towards a low carbon economy, high energy savings, reduced water consumption and high recyclability. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility of introducing tax benefits such as aid for investment in technologies with low environmental impact also in the industrial conversion processes of contaminated national sites of interest, which is also in order to activate growth and green employment and support the exercise - at the expense of the energy bill - of technologies and systems of generation, through the valorization in the energy bill of the energy produced, self-produced and consumed only. In this perspective (on demand) it might be interesting to reserve a specific design for the treatment of industrial by-products derived from, for example, the processing of vegetable oils, animal fats and the production of biofuels, as identified by technical standards. The possible inclusion of these in the virtuous cycle of environmental impact reduction would also achieve the added value of favouring those processes of circular economy mentioned above. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, what the direction is in terms of proposals and contributions, as well as the state of implementation of the package of initiatives in support of circular economic processes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u18	Compagnon (AL-A). Mr Minister, given that the circular economy cannot ignore scientific research and technological progress, since it is necessary to intervene at all stages of the life of the product, I ask you first of all what the Government intends to do to promote, precisely, research as well as start-ups and enterprises with a strong innovative feature in the re-use and re-use of the matter, with particular regard to the usability of agricultural products. Secondly, I would ask you whether you do not consider it appropriate to encourage local authorities to provide for concessions on the tariff for the management of municipal waste for commercial and non-commercial users who want to give themselves the means for the collection of non-dangerous packaging. This would lead to a reduction in the amount of waste mass and at the same time would be a stimulus for reuse.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u21	Tarquinio (CoR). Minister, the circular economy was born in Puglia, on 24 October 2015, with a document signed by six civil society environmental associations, with the real aim of treating waste properly, and then registered with the European Union. This document sets out clear and precise principles: firstly, the use of waste on site and the separation of waste. Maybe we don't realize what that means. In this regard, I ask you whether you are aware of advanced Israeli technologies which provide for the elimination of separate collection, because with the same technology you are able to separate all kinds of waste, even the humid. How do we deal with this problem? We are talking about the search for innovation, a research that already exists in other countries. How do we put it? Do we have the resources? In fact, in order to develop such a discourse also with the energy developed on the spot and for the territory - and all this applies also to agricultural products at zero kilometer - there is first of all a need for substantial resources, of which we do not see now even the hypothesis. It is clear that it is difficult, but the true answers come from this. Imagine what it means to use that type of technology and thus eliminate the huge problem of separate collection in Italy: one would overcome the problem of those municipalities that do not reach even five percent of separate collection. That's the real thing. I therefore ask you what the Government intends to do in order to be able to develop as much as possible this hypothesis that leads us to zero emissions with respect to the production of energy, as from the ratio CETRI-TIRES. This is already documented in the European Commission and has been accepted by the European Commission. How does the Government stand in the short and of course in the long term (because I fully realize what it needs)? That is the crucial question with regard to the problem of the circular economy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Mr Galletti, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are holding today on the circular economy is really important and I thank you for putting this issue at the heart of today's question time. Taking inspiration from Senator Tarquinio's last speech, I believe that we will be able to have a circular economy only and exclusively through a cultural change. From Paris, this message came in a clear way: at the COP21 Climate Conference, all the countries of the world took the path of decarbonisation. This road can be traveled at a speed of 100 or 20 kilometers per hour, but it will certainly never go back. Going towards decarbonization means applying the circular economy, i.e. replacing the linear economy of the twentieth century with the circular economy of the twenty-first century. It will take time because this implies a very profound change, ranging from the individual citizen to the great entrepreneur. Everyone must feel belonging to this process which, like all processes of great transformation, needs a cultural change and an economic advantage. Senator Di Biagio said it well just now, remembering the great stages that were made in 2015, which all push towards this goal. We therefore need cultural change on the one hand, and economic advantage on the other. It is clear that it is then the task of the European, national and local institutions to facilitate the path towards the circular economy, but I believe that, today as today, we have taken an irreversible path. It is up to us to establish the speed at which we want to go this way. We must also be realistic, because - I repeat - the path is of radical change and I believe that certain steps take time. As a country, we are already moving forward towards the circular economy, even in advance of the European directive, which will probably see the light in a few months' time. We wanted to anticipate the times precisely because we believe that arriving first at the circular economy makes our country more competitive from an economic point of view and not only environmental. In this sense, I would like to remind you that precisely in these days the Committee on the Environment, the Environment and the Environment of the Senate, under the chairmanship of Senator Marinello, wanted to carry out a strong consultation on the circular economy package. I would also like to point out that all the relevant Directorates of the Ministry of the Environment are working closely with the Senate to reach a clear Italian position on the circular economy package, which is shared not only by the Government but also by Parliament, because I believe that this is extremely important. As I said, we think it is a very important priority to tackle the issue of the circular economy in a decisive way. Moreover, the Government moved in this direction during the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the last half of 2014 and, in continuity with the path then developed, participates in a strong and intense debate on the subject at both national and supranational level. I would like to point out that an informal inter-directional group has been set up within my Ministry, which is specifically involved in the issue of the circular economy and the efficient use of resources. The two themes are closely linked. Since September, a technical table has been established for the bilateral consultation with the European Commission to compare with the other administrations involved and in particular with the Ministry of Economic Development. Among the actions that my Ministry is taking to promote the path towards a circular economy, those aimed at the implementation of two important forecasts of the environmental link that you have recently approved must be mentioned. First of all, the definition of minimum environmental criteria, the so-called CAM, for public procurement by the public administration, and then the GPP, the green public procurement, which is a very important part of public participation in the circular economy. Through this tool, public administrations are led to integrate environmental criteria at all stages of the purchasing process in order to encourage the dissemination of technologies and the development of particularly valuable products from an environmental point of view. The CAMs, i.e. the minimum environmental criteria, the adoption of which has become mandatory in accordance with Article 18 of the environmental connection, as well as included in the text of legislative decree transposing the procurement directive approved just this morning in the Council of Ministers, provide in fact, for different types of products and services - paper for copies, cartridges for printers, office furnishings, urban waste management service, garden service, urban furniture, textiles, collective catering - the possession of specific technical characteristics able to favor the recovery of reuse materials. Just this morning we approved the legislative decree on procurement in which are contained great innovations in the environmental field. There is a process of simplification for the reclamations and a participation of the Ministry of the Environment through the concert on the guidelines for the design of all public works, so no longer only for public works that concern the environment - reclamations, water purification and waste - but also when it comes to buildings and roads. For the first time there is the concert of the Ministry of the Environment on the guidelines on the design, which before did not exist, which means that the environment enters in full title also in the chapter of the great public works. There is also a third issue concerning the circular economy, namely the extension to all tenders of the so-called minimum environmental criteria and therefore the satisfaction of a percentage of products that all administrations (not only State, Regions and Municipalities, but all those within the state perimeter) must take into account when making their own contracts. Also within the framework of the recent indications contained in the environmental link, we must also remember the activities that my Ministry, through the interdisciplinary working group, will carry out with a view to the implementation of Articles 21 and 23 of this legislative act. These activities, which will also see the concert of the other Ministries, will mainly concern the approval of a national action plan on sustainable consumption and productions that will see internal management of a national environmental quality label, the made green in Italy, with specific interventions on national production chains, models of distribution and consumption of goods and tourism, as well as those related to the recent communication of the EU on the circular economy. I would point out, however, that a very much attended conference was held on these issues - and I did not expect such a broad participation - at my Ministry on 23 February. Let me also say a few words about the state of implementation of the European circular economy package. On 2 December, the European Commission presented the new European circular economy package analysing the interdependence of all processes in the value chain, from raw materials extraction to product design, production, distribution, consumption to reuse and recycling. At the same time as the European Commission's package containing the circular economy plan was adopted, four proposals were presented for amending the directives which fall within the framework of the circular economy measures package. The Directives which are being amended are those relating to the landfill of waste, packaging and packaging waste, end-of-life vehicles and another relating to batteries, accumulators and electrical and electronic equipment. On tomorrow's day, the European Environment Ministers - at the very end of the question time I will leave for Brussels - will be called upon to express their views on the issue of the circular economy. In this connection, it should be noted that the proposals for amendments to the waste package will not be discussed in the Council, which will instead be called upon to comment solely on the actions envisaged by the circular economy plan. The conclusions of the Plan will be drawn up and presented to the Environment Council in June on the basis of the outcome, the Council's discussions and the discussions within the Environment Group. Here, in line with what has already been done, we will not fail to highlight important priorities, such as the need to put in place actions consistent with the development of the second raw materials market. It should also be pointed out that the success of such action also depends on a revision of waste legislation, inter alia, to remove the main obstacles to their conversion into resources. On this point it is well known how proper application of the hierarchy of sources provides primarily for prevention activities. However, to date we know that in our country the Regions are burdened by a clear lack of self-sufficiency in waste management. It is precisely in this context that there is the massive use of landfilling which still occurs in significant parts of the national territory and to which only residual use should be made. For reasons of time, I cannot complete the punctual reading of the rest of my report (which I will be able to make available to the Offices), in which the Italian node is addressed, which is what I highlighted at the end of my speech. The country, in its separate collection, still shows a leopard stain. We have areas where separate collection has reached European levels and areas - I mean very clearly - which are shameful at European level. We still have too high a landfill, so we need to identify actions that push the municipalities more towards separate collection. Not only that: it also takes more cooperation from the municipalities, because those rules work. Some municipalities reach 80% differentiated and others are 3%, which means that there are those who do not want to do separate collection and it is not a matter of rules. I therefore believe that we should take this issue further together. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u25	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister, because his speech shows what I was saying at the outset, namely the strong political will that Italy is putting in place, so that a circular economy can actually start. We will read the most precise answers that will be given to us, but I believe that the two additional information that the Minister has given us today - the fact that he has established the acronym CAM, that is, the minimum environmental criterion, to define public works, even non-environmental, with quality criteria, and the made green in Italy, that is the brand to determine the sustainability of the products placed on the market, are important and functional to achieve the objective set. From this point of view, I am therefore satisfied and I look forward to being able to read and know the precise answers to the two questions that I had asked concerning the end of waste, with the criteria that are being asked to apply immediately to Italian companies, and the need to develop a framework law on waste.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u28	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Galletti. I would like to emphasise that we are particularly concerned about our country and that we look with respect, but also with great rationality, at the decisions and acts of the European Union. We therefore believe that the pursuit of the ambitious objective of achieving a full circular economy must be achieved in Italy with a timetable that does not penalise the growth of companies filling them with new tasks. At the same time, in order to achieve the desired result, incentives (especially tax incentives) for recycling and re-use of secondary raw materials and for companies and citizens should be introduced.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u31	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, the Minister speaks of cultural change, but what we see is that, after killing the renewables chain, recycling also sinks. This with the decree implementing the decree-law unblocks Italy, which provides for eight incinerators throughout Italy (plants imposed as strategic), while it is permissive with prevention and recovery and fixes the maximum collection ceiling differentiated to 65 percent, which by law is instead a minimum objective. This is a political choice that responds to the lobbying of incinerators, which are encouraged in an unfair competition system compared to other supply chains.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u34	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, for which I am pleased. In fact, from his words, I understood that the comparison in the Commission, as the Minister pointed out, for the definition of measures on the promotion of circular economic processes was very profitable. It seems to me that the Government has well understood the importance of this global challenge on which the Ministry is investing a lot as a goal following the great COP21 Conference in Paris, also through the initiatives, highlighted by you, activated by the interdisciplinary working group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u37	Compagnon (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister because his report shows the commitment that the Italian Government and its Ministry are making to achieve the circular economy in which I believe we all now believe. To be honest, I was hoping for a more timely response, but I believe that I will find in the written report the actions that the Government intends to promote towards young companies, start-ups and innovative enterprises. We believe that the phase of research, if properly encouraged, can give Italy the primacy that it already has in some sector, that I think we can continue to have and improve and on which we must aim, because from there we start for an efficient reduction of products and above all for a greater attention to the circular economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u40	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the precise report, which I am satisfied with, because there is a willingness to move forward on a road. Of course, the difficulties will be mainly of a financial nature, because we have the problem of landfills, resources are scarce and landfills are to be eliminated as much as possible. I don't imagine, I don't dream of a world made up of green meadows and sheep; I realize the problems and some choices have to be made, as long as we reduce everything else. That's the way. The only invitation I can give you, in addition to the best wishes for good work with all of us, considering the importance of the environment, is to work hard for real research. Let us also follow some of the roads I have mentioned: very advanced technologies that separate without any need for anything else. It is an important fact, because that Italy with leopard stain would disappear soon after. I would therefore like to thank you once again because the address of this Ministry is very clear. Therefore, beyond my position of opposition to this Government, I am satisfied with the way the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea is moving.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u41	We now come to questions on reclamation operations involving industrial sites of national interest and waste management and disposal sites, which will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Galletti. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u44	WRITER IN ZUANNA (PD). Mr President, an important part of the electrical and electronic waste generated in Italy ends up with operators who, even if they have the authorisation to process WEEE (over 700 WEEE issued), concentrate on the second-largest and most profitable raw materials to be extracted. The situation described has as a consequence the loss to the industrial system of all the materials contained in WEEE, which are handled incorrectly, and the difficulty to operate of the virtuous industry of the recycling of WEEE that meets the existing treatment standards. To this difficulty must be added the recent fall in market prices for raw materials, estimated at 30-35 per cent from May to today, making the calls for the start of the circular economy useless. In this context, one of the steps necessary to give impetus to the sector of environmentally friendly management of WEEE would be the implementation of the provisions of Legislative Decree No 49 of 2014, according to which the Minister of the Environment (...) determines by decree the criteria and technical methods of treatment... This implementing decree would ensure a homogeneous level of quality in the treatment of WEEE and adequate controls, allowing all treatment plants to operate on the same quality standards. Replying this morning to a question from myself and 24 other senators, the Ministry stated that it was unable to issue this decree, because the European Commission has not yet completed some preliminary procedures. Having said that, I would ask that if, in the interests of Community compliance, the Ministry cannot, in fact, urgently promote initiatives, including those of a regulatory nature, necessary for the substance of the requirements required by this decree to be implemented immediately and effectively, also in view of the fact that the minimum standards of treatment for the different types of WEEE have already been published by the European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardisation. I believe that Europe also needs a boost from Italy, as our President-in-Office of the Council often points out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u47	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the phenomenon of reclamation of production sites is a consequence of the deep crisis in our industrial system, which even precedes the recent economic and financial collapse. The long list of more than fifty sites of national interest that have been reclaimed since 1998. In some cases, the decrees of the Minister of the environment have been repeated pro tempore in order to renew the intervention and the public address on the sites by dragging the problems precisely for many and too many years: Porto Marghera, Massa and Carrara, the Litorale Domizio and the Agro Flegreo, Frosinone, the interventions on the rivers Saline and Alento, now in the responsibilities of the Abruzzo Region alone (and we do not understand why). These are just a few examples of how Bonifice Management often leaves the impression of total irrationality. But the speech also applies to the ILVA, where the Government has intervened at least ten times, with acts having characteristics of necessity and urgency, yet that site remains, from an environmental point of view, still a living, current and worrying problem. Since recent hearings in Parliament, we have understood that the responsibility for subsidies is often alien to rigid business logics. We have seen figures of the costs for the reclamation operations absolutely unhindered from the reality and enormous resources are so far committed to the reclamations of sites of national interest. I would therefore ask you, Minister, what is the criterion for assessing the public resources to be used for reclamation? Is an initial business plan evaluated? Are there general and common guidelines? Are specific obligations placed in the care of the reclamation work? Is there a strict control of the public resources employed and a verification of the results? I would also ask you: what is the total amount, in billions of euros, so far allocated by the State and the Regions for the whole of the reclamations of the more than fifty national and regional industrial sites?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u50	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, Minister, the fact that the Italian territory represents the main port point of migrants, together with Greece, is a fact, such as the problems that inevitably create this flow. One of them is precisely the disposal of migrants' boats used for crossing. From my recent inspection to the port of Pozzallo I have been able to see how the Government considers these boats of the special waste, preferring the destruction and the disposal at the expense of the State rather than the actual path of recovery, often possible and desirable. It is clear to us that the circular of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers dated 13 February 2003 under the heading 'Destruction of vessels used for illegal immigration offences' provides for the possibility of proceeding, in the absence of requests for reliance made by the police or other bodies of the State, to the destruction of the means seized. Given that you, at your hearing at the Schengen Committee, stated that it would not be wrong to talk about creating a production chain that could guarantee the recovery of the boats themselves, could you explain to us what measures the Government is taking or intends to take to make concrete this project which would consist precisely in the recovery of the same boats and in the recovery of the recyclable and reusable materials of those boats? Is it your intention to do so? And when are you going to do that, considering that many bans for the disposal of boats charged to the State are being closed?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u53	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Minister, I have two questions for you. On Wednesday 24 February, Caffaro Brescia Srl's corporate leadership officially announced that in March 2017 they will definitely leave the industrial site of via Milano. It therefore opens up an employment problem for the 55 people who still work there, but above all a problem of safety of the aquifer linked to the historical pollution of polychlorodiphenyl, produced by the old property. The current property, as agreed, has the obligation to pump and filter over a billion liters of water from the deepest layer, to prevent it from coming into contact with the most superficial one, totally polluted by the poisons introduced by Caffaro over the years. The owner had asked for concessions to the electricity tariffs that he had to pay, amounting to one million euros per year. The Ministry's discounts have never been granted. On the contrary, he was asked to improve the control system, which makes water from all sides, so much so that an ARPA report has certified that still today the pollution of the land south of the Caffaro site continues with the spilling of more than 478 kilos per year of poisons. What happens now? Who will pay these costs? What safety for citizens' health? Italy of the Values urges the Government to take immediate measures to secure and then provide for the definitive reclamation of the Caffaro, allocating the resources repeatedly promised by its Ministry but still today you do not reach your destination. Another issue concerns ILVA. You know very well that the ILVA is saved only on condition of realization of the planned Bonifiches. Invoking the closure of the ILVA seems to us pure madness. Italy of the Values believes that there is a road that can be crossed: a newco that sees the Cassa depositi and loans at the center of alliances, also international, to realize an industrial plan composed of the Bonifiche, the innovation of the product and the new plants. All this is worth about three billion, and it is the only criterion that holds together the interests of the Italian industrial system with the sacrosanct defense of the health of the people living in Taranto, together with the jobs. We would ask you, Minister, whether you intend to apply to the ILVA Commissioners the preliminary assessment of the subsidies before any sales decision is taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u56	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, the issue of the virtuous waste management, with the consequent management of the reclamations of the disposal sites of the waste, is without doubt of fundamental importance for our country. Many, too many, have been the abuses and violence committed against the territory and the environment, leaving still today open wounds that we must heal. The attitude was to turn to the other side and, using a very fitting metaphor, to hide the dust under the carpet. Today, fortunately, there has been a reversal of the trend. It has been understood, from a more sensitive point of view to environmental problems, that rejection can be a real resource. Waste disposal must be seen as an opportunity to develop, through the recovery of materials, their recycling and reuse, and their transformation into energy. I must say, Minister, that your Dicastery has been there and there is a strong commitment in this direction, including through a widespread dissemination of the culture of respect for the environment. With particular reference to the work of reclamation of sites of national interest, I know that there has been a constant and demanding work by its Ministry and the government's appropriations in this respect are the concrete proof of this. A work made more difficult, in many cases, by bureaucratic slowness, by the lack of participation of some Regions in the conferences of the services, and even by the delays in the issuance of those preliminary and necessary measures, by the Regions, which then allow the Ministry to issue the decrees of approval of the plans for reclamation. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, about the state of the art of the work done on the Bonifice front with regard to approved reclamation projects and the decrees authorising the start of works issued.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u59	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, as is well known, since 2001 the reclamation site of national interest of Trieste has been established and since 2013 the industrial area of Trieste has been recognized as a complex industrial crisis area, in relation to the issues of steel production, the redevelopment of industrial and port activities, as well as environmental recovery. With regard to the industrial conversion work of Ferriera di Servola, which is included in the area described above, in previous acts of inspection union that I have presented, I asked for clarification of the construction of a new mill inside the plant, in particular regarding the authorization procedures for starting works in view of the particular environmental situation that characterizes the site in question. As can be seen from the minutes of the Conference of the investigative services, convened at the Ministry of the Environment on October 5, 2015, the ARPA requested an operational protocol in agreement with the competent Province for the verification of flows on the handling of materials, but above all clarified that no ground and underground movements had to be carried out before the decree of approval was issued. These movements, on the other hand, have taken place and can be demonstrated as specified by my previous question. In view of the fact that on 2 November 2015 the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Development with their own decree established that "in the areas concerned of the underground waste, the planned works must be started only after the verification of the complete removal of the same waste by the local authorities of control" and that an operating protocol with the competent Province and the ARPA must be agreed for the verification of the flows on the handling of the materials compared to the realization of the shed or any other handling within the plant, I ask you, Minister, having regard to the above, whether the appropriate inspections have been arranged in order to ascertain the correct execution of works of the rolling mill during the construction phase in compliance with the aforementioned ministerial decree, as well as the results of possible explorations of underground waste after the administrative procedure provided by law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u62	Compagnon (AL-A). Minister, the site of national interresse (SIN) of Gela was established by Law No 426 of December 1998. The pollution plan for environmental rehabilitation provided for a total of 47 interventions, of which 14 were to be borne by the companies and 33 were to be borne by the State. In 2000 the plan was commissary, but 17 years after the establishment of the SIN the territory is still far from being reclaimed. In addition to the enormous delays in the implementation of the rehabilitation, there has been a worrying escalation of even neoplastic diseases. The labour problems of the induced workers have been added to the situation. The employees of the contractors are in fact stopped for three years and ask for the start of the yards for the green conversion of the refinery, going from oil to the production of biofuels. We know that there have been many meetings, which so far have produced only a limited extension of the Integration Fund. It is therefore asked, Minister, to know the state of the art of reclamation concerning the site of Gela and if it does not consider it useful to take action so that the Government finds a definitive solution for the workers concerned, providing, for example, a dedicated training, to convert their professionalism into skills to be employed in the concrete activities of reclamation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u65	Tarquinio (CoR). Minister, the government and the previous governments have shown activism with respect to the problem of the reclamation of sites of national interest, but this activism has not paid for the reclamation of the sites: the works have not been started and there is confusion. Last year we allocated another 50 million euros to Bagnoli-Coroglio, but I would like to invite you: previously 45 million euros were allocated to the Municipality of Naples and it would be appropriate to check whether these funds are still there or whether they have been used for anything else. However, there is also confusion in Bagnoli, because I do not know how to work until the sequestration of the soils is resolved. The soils are under sequestration and until it is decided whether the casting to the sea, which produces the greatest damage, must be removed or covered, nothing can be done. Bagnoli is a serious problem, as Piombino and Trieste are. These statements don't want to be an accusation to your person. The problem is as follows: why has it been chosen to entrust the issue to the Region (one who has been a regional adviser for various legislatures speaks to it), while it would have been appropriate, considering the partnership programme in place and which assigns to Italy 60 billion euros, to activate procedures on the basis of a national plan avoiding fragmentations regarding hydrogeological failure, reclamations and waste? One who has made the regional councilman for several legislatures asks her for more central power, because so we could tackle the problem altogether, go into detail and finally implement the Bonifice, remembering that in different places it is not possible to proceed because there are seizures of the judiciary and therefore there is no availability of the soils. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Mr Galletti, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u66	Mr President, I will try briefly to give an answer, because the issues you have raised are many and each of them would require much more in-depth study. For what I will not refer to the report, which is much more detailed than my comments and which I can make available to the Offices. I will begin with the reclamation of sites of national interest (SIN) and waste management and disposal sites. The Ministry of the Environment is the competent administration for the preparation of operations to secure and clean up the areas included in the perimeter of the forty sites of national interest. Law No 426 of 9 December 1998 provides for the establishment of a National Programme for the clean-up and environmental restoration of polluted sites, identifying interventions of national interest, priority actions, beneficiaries, criteria for financing interventions and the transfer of resources. In implementation of the above-mentioned law, my Ministry, by decree of 18 September 2001, adopted the regulation on the National Programme of Environmental Reclamation and Restoration, with which, among other things, it was arranged to distribute among the reclamation sites of national interest at the time already identified the available resources. Subsequently, Ministerial Decree 308 of 28 November 2006, supplementing the previous Decree of the Ministry of the Environment, added new resources in favour of the SIN identified with all the laws after 2001. In addition to these resources, the Ministry has allocated additional financing to the NSIs from ordinary budgetary resources, resources from the Development and Cohesion Fund (formerly FAS) allocated to the Department of the Environment, resources deriving from transactive acts concluded with economic actors operating on polluted sites. So there is a sum of resources from various chapters. The total resources allocated by my Ministry for reclamation interventions of public competence in the SIN amount to today about 2 billion euros, which have already been transferred to the Regions, the delegated commissioners and the autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. I remember that there is a commitment from the Government also for the former SIN, for more than 152 million, already transferred to the beneficiaries. So there is a total of EUR 2,152 million, many of which have already been spent, while others are in the process of implementing the measures. More generally, the resources referred to above have been regulated through the use of negotiated programming instruments, programme agreements and framework programme agreements, signed by the Ministry with the Regions, local authorities and central administrations involved in the reclamation process, or through the issuing of appropriate acts of discipline at regional level or according to the procedures provided for in the various civil protection orders in the areas concerned. The monitoring of the implementation of the aforementioned National Programme is carried out, also for the purposes of the activation of the procedure for the withdrawal of funding, by the Regions, which annually provide a report to the Ministry on the state of progress of the actions financed and the sums actually paid. The Ministry, in the event of serious failure of the beneficiary and of violation of the obligations assumed, as well as in cases of force majeure or impediments the realization of the intervention, may propose to the competent region the adoption of the procedures of revocation or reassignment of the resources. On the SIN of Trieste I have all the written history, but I would limit myself, for brevity, to reading the direct answer to the questioner, which can find in the report a bit 'the whole history of the SIN, until today. On the question related to the SIN of Trieste and on the inspection for the execution of the work of the laminate beginning in compliance with the decree of approval, it is represented that the control and verification of the compliance of the requirements issued with the decree of approval of the interventions of which to the integrated project is the competence of the local control authorities, to which it is assigned the task to verify the correct management of the waste produced in the implementation of the interventions. However, on the date of the start of the preparatory work to the construction of the shed where the mill will be allocated, the Municipality of Trieste, after the Conference of Services of 5 October 2015, which considered the project in question to be approved, communicated that the works related to the realization of the industrial shed had already been started with the execution of the founding works, the pillars and the relative coverage. Therefore my management, the next day, informed the Province of Trieste and the competent ARPA in order to ascertain any infringements of the environmental legislation for the works started. The Province, in response to the request, communicated its reservation in evaluating together with ARPA how much complained. Finally, it should be noted that with the appointment of the President of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region as the extraordinary commissioner, which took place on 7 August 2015, the responsibility for monitoring and implementation of the interventions, both for the private and for the public. As far as the SIN of Gela is concerned, I take into account all the waterproofing made, the resources we have allocated and the overall history of the SIN, of which I would refer the reading because it is very technical and very articulate, while I am concerned to speak above all of the infringement procedures in the matter of landfills, issue submitted by Senator Di Biagio and other interventions. In relation to the case concerning the non-fulfilment of the first sentence of 26 April 2007 for violation of the Waste Directive, given the intense activity carried out by the Ministry of the Environment, in collaboration with all the other administrations involved, there has been a shift from 200 unfair landfills, those subject of the infringement (which is of 2007, therefore reference is made to the situation at that time, which was no longer, after the infringement, changeable), to 155. In June 2015, the European Commission recognised the compliance of 14 landfills and a census error, excluding their sites from the calculation of the half-yearly penalty. On 8 February 2016, the Commission also recognised the setting up of 29 landfills and a further survey error, excluding these sites from the calculation of the penalty. It should also be noted that 151 of the 155 landfill sites still subject to procedure have received a warning from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, at the very initiative of my Ministry, for the purpose of the possible exercise of the replacement power, and for the other 4 investigations are under way. It is recalled, moreover, that the Ministry of the Environment has adopted a specific Extraordinary Plan for the reclamation of 45 landfills, in implementation own of article 1, paragraph 113, of the law of stability 2014. In this respect, the highest priority has been given to interventions in public landfill areas considered to be cantierable in the regions concerned. With the resources available for the implementation of the above-mentioned plan, immediate financing has been provided for the safety and clean-up measures relating to 26 landfills in the Abruzzo, Apulia, Sicily and Veneto regions, governed by specific programme agreements, providing that the allocation of the allocated resources is subject to the presentation of the final economic frameworks of the interventions. In this respect, it should be noted that the relevant documentation has not so far been sent to the relevant Directorate-General, so the resources have not yet been transferred. The remaining 14 landfills, in the state, are included in the programming phase of this Extraordinary Plan. The relevant measures can therefore be activated as soon as all the necessary resources have been found. In any case, it is recalled that with the law of stability 2016 has been financed, for a total amount of 30 million euros for the three years 2016-2018, the fund referred to in the aforementioned article 1, paragraph 113. For 155 landfills in infringement proceedings a total financial requirement has been estimated, on the basis of the projects available in the relevant municipalities and regions, of about 290 million euros for the related planned technical interventions. What did we do? Compared to the state of the ongoing proceedings, for the 155 landfills still subject to the infringement procedure, as already pointed out, I would point out that 151 warning decrees have been notified to the regions and local authorities concerned, and that for four investigations are under way. Appropriate deadlines for carrying out the activities have been defined for each individual warning procedure and the monitoring activities of the activities are currently under way. Let me say that a reflection should be made on this fact, because this is not the normal way of working: 151 is wary of saying that there is something structural that does not work, because my Ministry is not made to overpower the local authorities or the regions, but to exercise a power of control and direction. Then, if I am in the field of waste, reclamation, purification, having to exercise the substitute powers continuously, it means that there is something in the system of regions and municipalities that does not work. It means, I mean, that many of these people aren't able to do that job. I believe that this should be deepened, because the Commission cannot become the ordinary way of dealing with certain problems in our country. Having said that, there are regions that do not appear in any of these lists, testifying that the rules work if there is someone who can make the Bonifice and the purifications, that manages to dispose entirely of the waste of the Regions. Others can't, but the rules are the same. The time limits imposed in the warnings have not all expired and the situation is monitored daily by my Ministry. In ten cases, the territorial authorities have complied with what is required within the time limits imposed by the warnings and investigations. The documentation is collected for the purpose of the transmission to the European Commission for the calculation of the third half-yearly penalty. It will be my Ministry's commitment to continue the considerable work of impulse and monitoring of the various local administrations. I would like to point out that the Government has promoted the approval, in the law of stability, of a rule aimed at making more rapid and effective the substitution of the State, to guarantee important fundamental rights of individuals and the correct fulfilment of European obligations. I'm gonna spend a few words on revenge. Also in view of the importance of this topic for the Government, in order to ensure a timely execution of the sentences of condemnation, the law of stability has provided for a novelty: a compensation mechanism has been activated with the transfers that the State must carry out to the regions responsible for the violation on the basis of the sanctions, compensations for which it will no longer be necessary to acquire the understanding of the local and regional administrations involved. With regard to the issue of waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), raised by Senator Dalla Zuanna, in particular regarding the implementation of Article 18 of Legislative Decree No 49 of 2014, as recalled by the same senator, the Undersecretary Degani has already had the opportunity to report to the Environment Commissions. I would therefore do without repeating this morning's reply, but I am prepared to take seriously the impetus that comes from Senator Dalla Zuanna and all the senators who have submitted the question to see how we can anticipate Europe's decisions because the problem is real, it exists. From a regulatory point of view, we need to see what possibilities we have for doing this. As for the problem of Caffaro-Brescia srl, you know that there is a special attention of the Government on this issue. My Ministry has allocated to the SIN Brescia-Caffaro the sum of 6,752,727 euros in accordance with Ministerial Decree n. 308. The aforementioned resources have already been all transferred to the Lombardy Region and governed under the Agreement of program for the definition of the interventions of safety and subsequent reclamation on the site of national interest Brescia-Caffaro, undersigned on 29 September 2009. A further sum of €1,106,064 was transferred to the Lombardy Region. Following the identification of the actuators of the interventions provided for in the above mentioned Programme Agreement, my Ministry has signed four conventional agreements, respectively with the Sogesid spa, the ASL in Brescia, the Higher Institute of Health and the ARPA Lombardy. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. As far as the EUR 50 million is concerned, I have already repeated several times that these resources have been asked for on the programming of European resources 2014-2020 and I trust that they will come soon. I am sorry, there are other elements of response in the report, but the time available is over.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u67	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u70	WRITER IN ZUANNA (PD). Minister, thank you for your reply. I hope that we can establish a close intercourse with the offices of your Ministry and with you, because otherwise we risk filling up with words on these issues without implementing measures that can be very simple that would allow, for once, Italy to push Europe's action rather than, as is often the case with waste, to pursue the good practices of others. I hope that we will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u73	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I take note of your answers, but I must point out that in some cases, such as the ILVA, there has been a total disconnect between the real world and the action taken to clean up and, at the same time, to continue industrial activity. I would remind you that the continuation of production makes it possible to support jobs, which are fundamental to the lives of thousands of families. The hope, therefore, is that even industrial reclamations, as well as the management of waste disposal sites, do not become too expensive a business for Italian taxpayers, an too easy opportunity for mafias and a problem that, as is all too often the case in Italy, drags for years perpetually unsolved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u76	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, I reserve the right to thank the Minister when he answers the question I put. In any case, I would like to make it easier for him to do so, because on 25 February I tabled a question on the subject of boats. I believe it is necessary for the Government to give a concrete signal against the name we made in the world with reference to the bad management of waste. In particular, I believe that the use of boats can become a useful tool to increase employment opportunities, not only of fishermen in the territories of the first reception areas, but of all those private individuals willing to undertake tourism activities in their own territory. By the way, this could avoid the costs of landfilling which weigh on the state's coffers. Someone also advised me to think about the recovery of boats to satisfy monumental and museum decoration purposes, which will certainly enjoy all the national territory. Some Sicilian cooperatives even suggested that I place some of these boats in children's playgrounds, so as to become playful and educational tools that strengthen the memory of the many massacres that took place in our territory and in our sea.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u79	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, thank you for the evidence you have been willing to share with this House, despite the rigorousness of our President, who has not allowed you to give useful explanations to all colleagues in relation to their requests. I am sure that today's debate can be useful in order to draw more and more attention to issues that have direct and immediate effects on the lives of our citizens. I am pleased with what you have told us today, demonstrating once again the great determination of this Government to implement all the measures that can lead to an improvement in the quality of the environment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Di Biagio, the times are due to live television, which allows a much wider dissemination than the ordinary of the reasons set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u82	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, Minister, the resources we need for the reclamations are very large, so the expectation of these EUR 50 million is no small thing. We would, however, like the State and the Regions to prevent environmental disasters caused by private companies because of negligence and their personal useful, because for the holy money we do everything and more: we kill the planet and kill people. At the base, however, there is always a responsibility of those who manage the territory, of the Regions, of the Municipalities and of those who do not actually do the controls, as well as the carelessness and the lawlessness of those who are the administrator and owner of the companies that have this type of attitudes. I understand that in life you cannot be eternal, nor live long, but I also understand, and I would like to plead this cause, that you want to have a quality life, getting sick as little as possible. We need to respect the environment and people because, as I often say, life is a bit like the ladder of a henhouse: it is short, but it must not be reduced in a way that cannot be said. Life must be of quality, which is why I insist on respect for legality, the environment, people and quality.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u85	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We are talking about a site where there have been 3,000 tons of tombed waste and the burial is however the admission of a defeat of the previous administrations, as has been managed the industrial activity and especially environmental in that area. At the moment there are as many as thousands of tonnes of hazardous waste still to be disposed of. I repeat my concern about the authorizations granted by the bodies responsible for the construction of the new shed, because from his reply it is clear that the work took place before the issue of the interministerial decree, which dates from 2 November. This makes us appreciate what you said, because of course we need greater cooperation and commitment from local authorities to monitor what is happening in our territory. I am sorry, however, to have to point out that ownership, at the Conference of Services, perhaps had to say that work had already begun.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u88	Compagnon (AL-A). Minister, thank you for your reply. I will read your report on the SIN of Gela carefully. However, I wanted to present this idea, which I would ask you to pay attention to, verifying its feasibility: on the one hand we have the Bonifiche to do on the website of Gela and on the other we have operators who risk being fired due to lack of work. Let us try to bring the two things together: these are workers who already have experience of a plant that has dealt with chemistry, so they could be used, forming them properly, to make the reclamations expected for seventeen years saving public money and avoiding at the same time firing them. Beyond the Ministry's report, in fact, we will have to see whether the words are added to the facts and therefore whether concretely we will be able to give an answer in terms of well-being and quality of life.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u91	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr Minister, your task is certainly very burdensome. Environmental governance is a very difficult issue, especially in recent years, in which environmental sensitivity has exploded, as it should be. I understand that you have the full clarity of the problems from a passage in your speech, in which you highlighted what I said, namely the delays of local authorities and regional authorities. I therefore hope that the mechanism will be taken into account as soon as possible. I would also like to say to my colleagues here that the environmental problem concerns Italy as a whole, from Milan to Trapani and to talk about local problems is the most serious mistake that can be made. The problem is global and therefore needs to be addressed as a whole, which is why I insist that it be addressed at national level. The Minister's awareness makes me confident of what will be. The necessary resources are enormous, there is money in Europe, something else we can do, but I believe that the right path has been taken. We will follow the Minister's work very closely and then, all of us, we will judge.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u92	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-586.ana.u93	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 8 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.15 p.m.
