ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 10 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1878, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 1203. I recall that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur supplemented the written report and the general discussion took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u5	Mr President, after yesterday's long and complex debate, I should first of all like to point out that the draft of this bill was prepared by the Committee of 3 October, chaired by Tarek Brhane, a political refugee who fled the compulsory conscription in Eritrea, who, like tens of thousands of migrants, faced an inhuman journey to the Mediterranean, was imprisoned in Malta and then managed to adventurously arrive in Italy. This is to say that this bill was born first of all outside the parliamentary classrooms. It was born on the wave of one of the greatest tragedies of the sea, on which I hoped the controversy would not rekindle in this debate, which unfortunately happened on time. I would like to thank all my colleagues who have spoken in general debate, starting with Senator Micheloni, who has made a passionate and well-documented speech, which is also the result of his personal experience. Senator Albano rightly called for cohesion and solidarity in addressing this measure which must not become a useless catwalk of political vanity. And - I add - it must not be a way to wash one's conscience without having to follow the assumption of political responsibility. Finally, I feel it is my duty to respond to the problematic interventions that have been made, namely those colleagues who have legitimately said that they are sceptical or opposed to the aims of this bill. Senator Liuzzi, for example, spoke of Pharisaic practices, of the hypocritical attitude of politics, of this law as a mirror for the lark. I can also recognize this: the risk is there, but it is also up to us, to each of us, to ensure that this highly symbolic norm becomes something more and different in the collective consciousness. The only thing that is certain is that we cannot just watch as spectators at an epochal phenomenon such as that of migrations from Africa and the Middle East. To Senator Tosato, who considers this bill and the identification of the date of October 3 a mere propaganda operation, I just say that, even if it were so, it would still be nothing compared to who propaganda about immigrants makes it every day of the year. I repeat, Mr President: we need cohesion and solidarity at this time, and this must not be a way of washing our consciences. I am happy to repeat this concept. But I say no to the populism of fear, which starts from the real problems in order to move to proposals as demagogic as it is unrealistic. To close borders and make naval blockades are slogans that certainly make hold, but history has abundantly demonstrated that movements of peoples can be regulated but not totally prevented and that a truly insurmountable border has not yet been invented. It is also said to suspend Schengen, but it is a prospect that would be dramatic for the very existence of the European Union and that for Italy it would prove disastrous because we would find ourselves in the conditions in which Greece is now, where tens of thousands of refugees are blocked without an outlet. A completely realistic hypothesis, since the closure of Macedonian borders is going to produce a flow towards Albania in the direction of the Adriatic and therefore of Italy. The images that the televisions transmit to us from the refugee camp of Idomeni are not worthy of a civil Europe. In these days the border between Macedonia and Greece is marked by the armored means of the army to stop that mass of thousands of people who come mainly from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan; people who have traveled for months, who have lost children, wives and husbands on the road, who have been locked up in refugee camps in Turkey, who have reached the coast and crossed the sea with small rowed canoes. What prevails in Europe is the feeling of indifference and the raising of walls. I wonder why civil protection from all over the world moves when there is an earthquake, while no one is coming to the refugee camp in Idomeni. Europe is therefore faced with a task that will weigh on an entire generation. There have never been as many people fleeing political persecutions and wars like today, many of which seek protection in Europe. We must put ourselves in the order of ideas that, given the crises in the neighbouring countries, the situation will not change in the coming years. We Europeans owe to ourselves and to the world a solution to the challenge these people are looking for help. One thing has become clear: the answer given so far is not up to expectations. The European Union, starting with the summit on Thursday and Friday, cannot continue to hesitate and must demonstrate first of all that it exists. There must be a standard for the reception of migrants that applies to each Member State of the Union and a European asylum policy is needed. Refugees must be redistributed fairly throughout Europe. A situation like the current one, in which few Member States have to manage all the responsibilities of the reception, is unsustainable, because it is a system that weighs the burden in an unbalanced way only on the border countries. We therefore need binding criteria for the distribution of refugees based on the ability of States to manage them. Mr President, I am about to finish my reply. The only thing that is certain is that we cannot just watch what is happening as spectators. Can we welcome them all? Certainly not and for this reason we must encourage new political initiatives and measures to combat the reasons behind emigration from the Middle East and Africa. The stabilisation of the situation of decomposing states and, then, the creation of real economic and social prospects are the only way forward. They seem utopias (in fact, at this moment they are), but if we do not start to reason and operate outside the emerging logic, Europe will end up buried under its own powerlessness. Mr President, let me make one final point. In some interventions yesterday, the operation Mare nostrum was accused, which ended on 1 November 2014. According to data from the International Organization for Migration, in the first four months of 2015, 900 people died in the channel of Sicily. During the same period of 2014, when Operation Mare nostrum was in place, the dead had been 96. Not only that, in the first three months of 2015, 22,979 migrants landed against 20,899 in 2014. This is clearly a figure which denies a very widespread commonplace, namely that immigration had increased because operation Mare nostrum guaranteed a safe passage for migrants from North Africa. Finally, in the first month after the end of the operation, the arrivals increased by 485 percent compared to November 2013, when the Mare nostrum operation was operational. I shall conclude, Mr President, by addressing Senator D'Alì, who has tabled two amendments, which certainly make sense, because they refer to the history of the migration of Italians to foreign countries. These are pages of history that Italy has not properly valued and that deserve to be remembered. However, this draft law was born, not in a different context, but with its own ratio and we undertook with the promoters of the Committee of 3 October to approve it in a timely manner. It has already been more than eight hundred days since the proposal was made. And I believe that a new referral to the House, a new shuttle, would be a slap in the face to the promoters, who have so pressingly asked that this bill be passed. That is why I ask Senator D'Alì to withdraw the two amendments tabled, of which I agree with the aims but not the context in which they move. This is in order to reach a consensus as much as possible on this measure. [[Applause from Senators Manconi and Lo Moro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u6	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u7	Mr President, what the Senate is about to approve is an important act, as evidenced by the quality of the speeches that have been made. It has been said that it is a symbol, but I think that democracy needs symbols and landmarks to recognize itself and acceptance is a symbol of an open democracy. That is why it is important to set up this day and we are grateful to the presenters of the proposal. There has been talk of goodness in this House. I believe that this is a completely inappropriate term: it is not a question of goodness or piety; there is no relaxation from the point of view of the ability to control, but, on the contrary, this text bears witness to awareness, legality and civic sense, three aspects that are among the pillars of our democracies. The degree of civilization of the nations is measured by the respectful reception of the law. This is why it is important that this awareness is addressed and disseminated in schools and from them. Compared to what happens, the answer lies in the control of European borders and not in the barriers to national borders. For this reason and for the quality of democracies, Schengen must live and not die. I would like to say to Senator Liuzzi that what he said in his speech, recalling the need for a common reception policy, is exactly what is also imagined with the adoption of this law. So I really urge him to reconsider and support this measure in a convincing way. We need a political Europe and a social Europe. It is right to rethink the Dublin Treaty in a European way: this also helps to make Schengen live. I believe that this is precisely what we are going to discuss this afternoon, with the President-in-Office of the Council, awaiting the European Council's new meeting on the major issue of the governance of migration processes. I believe that there are indeed all the conditions so that, as the rapporteur has said, this Parliament, by a very large majority, can give further evidence of the quality of our democratic system. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u8	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u9	Mr President, I am actually very surprised. On several occasions it is agreed that this day of memory should also cover the issues of Italian emigration to other countries and then, in essence, when the amendments are adopted, it is not allowed to happen, for reasons of urgency. I don't know who made plans in time. The commitment that someone has made with an association was to bring the law to Parliament; but Parliament is then sovereign in its determinations and has an obligation to bring the issue back to an overall balance, especially with regard to young people. The Minister of Education, following this rule, will have to issue guidelines of activities for the celebration of this day. It could determine, for example, that the pupils of the schools carry out a theme, but this without the approval of my proposals, will focus only on the issues of immigration to our country and will not be the opportunity to remind our young people of an extraordinarily important phenomenon in our history, which is that of Italian emigration. I believe that we have a duty to balance all the issues, beyond the commitments that someone may have made outside this House. The House is this because it must, with absolute balance, examine all events. Setting up a day is not a minor matter. It has happened in a debate on immigration issues that has splashed or profited from things that have their own limited scope to debate major systems. Unfortunately, it's been done a little by everyone. I want to bring back, as I said in the general debate, to a balanced presence of this subject in the celebration of the country and in education among our young people. It is not acceptable, in my opinion, for Parliament to give a celebratory and pedagogical address in our schools to the issues of immigration and to neglect the themes of the great epic of Italian emigration, as Senator Manconi called it. Why do we not have to take a balanced measure and every time we have to take demagoguery, I do not say demagogic - I would not agree with this - but unilateral, just because someone outside has made commitments? This Parliament is committed to representing the entire country. I do not withdraw my amendments and I call for them to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u10	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u11	I call on the presenter to withdraw, otherwise I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u12	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u13	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u16	MICHELONI (PD). Mr President, I have asked to speak as Chairman of the Committee on Italian Foreign Affairs and I would like to point out to Senator D'Ali that this is a very important issue. We have already dealt with this in the Committee in 2007 and we have recently taken it up with Minister Giannini. There is an ongoing debate on this issue. With conviction and humility I would suggest that Senator D'Alì withdraw the amendments and propose that I put the Committee to work tomorrow to draw up a motion to be discussed in this House in order to bring the Government to implement the proposal he has put forward. Putting a negative vote on an amendment on this very important issue, which I fully agree with, is not, I think, helpful. I suggest and insist with Senator D'Ali that he make an effort to withdraw his proposals but not with a view to closing the speech on this subject. It is equally logical for the rapporteur to say that it would be good to avoid a shuttle between the two chambers for such a measure. In the face of these two right arguments, there is a way to seriously address this issue and it is a debate in this House. I really insist that Senator D'Alì make the effort to withdraw them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u19	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I take the floor to point out something that could be decisive in this debate. In fact, we are talking about the text that was sent to us by the House of Deputies and therefore feelings of annoyance prevail, which in some way unite us, because we cannot modify or amend the texts, which would then be again subjected to the parliamentary shuttle. In this case, however, we are in the presence of a text to which another bill is linked, absolutely identical in its content, at the first signature of Senator Manconi and signed by many other fellow senators, who proposed the same thing, that is the institution of the national day for the memory of migrants victims of the sea: I read, at the same time, what Senator Manconi and his fellow subscribers proposed. I wanted to remember it, because this element has its own reasonableness and the bill has its own identity. So, wanting to insist on turning it into something else, it seems to me to be a wrong struggle. I too therefore hope that Mr D'Ali will withdraw the amendment, although he understands the reasons for it, and he will not force us to vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u22	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u23	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u24	Mr President, I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u25	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u26	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u29	CRIMI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. When calling for electronic voting, I take the opportunity to make a proposal. Since it has been three years since we arrived in this House today and we have finally introduced the practice of electronic voting, perhaps this time we should convene the famous Committee for the Rules of Procedure and amend that part of the Rules of Procedure which says that the Senate votes by show of hands. Nowadays, really, you can no longer read such a rule and when someone reads the law, it remains open-mouthed and wonders why it is written that you vote for a show of hands. Since we vote by electronic vote, it would be appropriate to say that the vote is carried out regularly by electronic vote and, in exceptional cases, by show of hands. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u30	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u33	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask everyone to reflect before we vote on Amendment 2.1. I address in particular the rapporteur, Senator Mazzoni, and the representative of the Government. I did not ask to speak on the first amendment tabled by Senator D'Ali, Amendment 1.1, because it could have altered the philosophy of the measure in question by intervening on Article 1. On the other hand, I agree with Amendment 2.1, which deals with the second paragraph of Article 2, which does not alter its philosophy. In this amending proposal it is expected that, on that day, schools will have to discuss and explain the problem of immigration. I wonder, then, how it is possible not to draw the attention of young people to the problem of emigration of our country, to what lived by our compatriots that is very useful to understand immigration in our country. Our compatriots have emigrated according to the rules of legal entry to the United States of America and to other countries and we must pretend to achieve this goal in our country for immigration; I mean that we can never think of fighting or solving the problem of emigration without creating a legal entry into our country. How, then, can we argue that it is not appropriate to discuss this subject in the context of the debate and in-depth study? That is why I believe that a reflection must be made. Perhaps Amendment 1.1 could appear (even if it was not) as a hypothesis of twisting the philosophy of the text; instead, Amendment 2.1 serves to ensure the necessary cultural deepening in schools and in all bodies already involved in this purpose. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u34	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u35	Before moving on to the final vote, I would like to inform you that the Conference of the Leaders will be convened at the end of the vote on the measure and therefore, for the duration of the vote, the sitting of the Assembly will be suspended.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u36	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u39	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, Mr Scholar, ladies and gentlemen, the 25th anniversary of the first great exodus of Albanians on the coasts of Apulia has been mentioned in recent days. Between the end of February and the first days of March 1991 the Lower Adriatic and the Canal of Otranto recorded the passage of about 27,000 Albanians who, escaped from the now wavering regime of Ramiz Alia (heir of the dictator Enver Hoxha), sought in our country their promised land. Italy discovered in those days that it had become a land of immigration. Apulians in the previous decades had abandoned their land and their families for cities in northern Italy and Europe. Before we heard some colleagues talk about Marcinelle: how many Apulians, how many Southerners died in that mine? Well, those Apulians instead faced the arrival of Albanian refugees, demonstrating their capacity to welcome them, which were appreciated... [[Brusio. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u40	Colleagues, those who were not interested could leave the Chamber to allow Senator Bruni to make his speech without this background which is truly mortifying to the speaker. 10.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u41	Mr President, I was saying that those Apulians, the same southern citizens, who had been protagonists of even sad pages of emigration, instead in those years and in 1991 discovered that they were faced with another phenomenon, which was that of immigration on our coasts, demonstrating their capacity for welcome that were appreciated in Italy, in Europe and throughout the Western world. If you remember, there were even those who proposed the Nobel Prize for the Apulian people. As I said, our country, which has always been a land of migration, had to try a completely new phenomenon. The government, Parliament, our ruling classes were almost forced by the events of 1991 to set up a system for the reception and management of refugees and illegal immigrants until then. Only a few months before the Parliament passed Law No 39 of 1990, the Martelli Act, which sought to regulate an unprecedented phenomenon, in respect of which our State, in the early stages, did not give much proof of efficiency. Who does not remember the next episode of August 8, 1991, the arrival of the ship Vlora in the port of Bari and the embarrassing scenery of the Stadio della Vittoria? This is a demonstration of a nation and a government that had not yet understood what scenario and what phenomenon they were facing, which had to be managed. Twenty-five years have passed, and today, in this House, we are examining and approving the bill for the establishment of National Day in memory of the victims of immigration. The intention of this initiative is certainly noble. It cannot be forgotten that in these twenty-five years our seas and our coasts have recorded tragic and mourning events such as that of 3 October 2013 - already remembered - off Lampedusa, with 366 victims and 20 missing, or like that of 18 April 2015, in the Canal of Sicily, with more than 700 victims. One could, therefore, consider the ratio of this bill in order to always make alive in our communities the memory of those and other tragedies related to the exodus of migrants of the whole Mediterranean area, as well as of the Middle East area. We will remember, in fact, that many refugees arrived mainly from the East came from the areas of Kurdistan and the Middle East, even before the war in Syria. On this occasion too, however, we cannot fail to consider all the unresolved problems and still open issues concerning the management of migratory flows and the organisation of reception. Our country, in the fourth century just passed, has not always faced this problem in the best way, guaranteeing the most suitable solutions for the refugees themselves and their citizens. The spontaneism that distinguished that first phase of 1991 remained the figure of the Italian reception machine, with the inevitable side effects. After the aforementioned Martelli law, the Turkish-Napolitan and Bossi-Fini laws have succeeded, but the concrete results have indeed been minor and unsatisfactory. At the same time, Italy and, in particular, the governments of recent years have not been able to fully involve Europe, asking the member countries for greater solidarity and closeness for the solution of a problem that has become chronic, which cannot only concern us. It is precisely in these hours that there is yet another flop in the European Union; the agreement with Turkey is struggling to be concluded; nor, moreover, is it possible to raise awareness among the countries in Northern Europe about the necessary revision of the Dublin Regulation. These are the days of the eloquent and gruesome images of the refugee camp of Idomeni, the barbed wire at the Macedonian border. We wonder lost on the possible perverse domino effect of refugees who, from the Balkans, will be able to turn again to the down-Adriatic and the high-ion, going to interest again Puglia and Calabria Ionica. Well, in the face of this worrying and distressing scenario, this bill has no other effect than that of a banal placebo. It will certainly serve to spread greater awareness among our communities and among our students, but at the same time it risks misleading our attention from the fundamental issues still unresolved, which I mentioned earlier, which remain unanswered and generate many questions. We might ask ourselves: how many public structures are destined for a real welcome in our country today? What is the quality of our reception system? What is the reliability of our public security system in flow management? Why is it not possible to organize an efficient reception system for unaccompanied minors? And I could go on. But before concluding, a rightful thought goes to the operators of the Armed Forces, the Navy, the Finance Guard, the Coast Guard, who have faced, often in the most extreme conditions, the most difficult moments of the reception, resolving as far as possible, sometimes even of the impossible, the most desperate situations. To them cannot fail our heartfelt thanks and our total closeness. They too deserve formal recognition for their activity. Not national days, now too inflated. Also for these reasons and for the reasons highlighted at the beginning of my speech, the Group of Conservatives and Reformists will not be able to vote in favour, limiting itself to a vote of abstention, because nothing else can be done in the face of the unresolved issues previously mentioned, and that only a few days ago Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri had proposed again asking for urgent information from the Ministers of the Interior and Foreign Affairs. But still today we are unanswered. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Scilipoti Isgrò.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u42	Our work is followed by the students and teachers of the Liceo Artistico "Via di Ripetta" (Via di Ripetta) in Rome, which we greet by welcoming him to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u45	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not join the people I heard yesterday, but I would like to draw a little attention to the subject on which we are debating, namely the establishment of National Day in memory of the victims of immigration. Yesterday I heard about everything, especially and only about immigration: I heard little about Memory Day. What do I mean? First of all, the establishment of a National Day is absolutely useless, because I believe that this matter is completely inflated. It should be considered offensive to set up another day when it comes to victims, poor people who died at sea. I say this because - for those who did not know it - our more or less official days dedicated to something are 253: we shine for the day dedicated to the cat; the defense of the frog, the slowness, the UFOs, and cannot miss the day of the guardian angels. And we probably need guardian angels here too to avoid setting up yet another day! With those officers, starting from today and arriving until June 2, there is practically one every two or three days. Even this morning there is a commemorative ceremony of the massacre in Via Fani, where every three days the Head of State, the President of the Council, the Chief of Staff are always present. I wonder if, at a time when ISIS threatens Western countries, perhaps it would not be appropriate to send one to represent the country. If an attack were to occur on that occasion, everyone would be on the day of commemoration and no one would defend the patricians borders. On the other hand, this day is not just useless. I believe that the cost should not be forgotten: we always say that everything is free of charge to the State, but then, of course, the charges fall on schools, municipalities, provinces and regions. And so, something costs us. I consider it not only useless, but even harmful in the historical phase that we are experiencing. We are now witnessing the closure of the Balkan route; 75 kilometers away we have the coasts from which migration through the Otranto Canal could reopen and we, unlike the rest of the world, are going to set up the National Day in memory of the victims of immigration. It's like saying: come here because the right path is that of the Otranto Canal. On the other hand, I believe it is the policy - it has always been underlying, from the Monti Government to those of Letta and Renzi - that has led to these results, because I have heard figures that can be widely contradicted also by the rapporteur, Senator Mazzoni. I only saw one thing: between Mare nostrum, Triton and Poseidon we brought home, going to get them, illegals among whom there were also some refugees. Yesterday I heard someone mention the negative tone attributed to the term "clandestine," but those who enter without respecting the rules in our country are called clandestine. Period. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There are no other terms. You invented the term migrants. And what happened with those precious missions? In 2014 we had 175,000 entrances. In 60,000 of those who have entered, they have applied for refugee status, but only 5% of them have been granted this status, which means that for the most part they were illegals. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And we went to pick them up instead of doing what we had to do, that is rejecting them, and we took them home. It is said, however, that we have done a humanitarian operation and saved lives. The opposite is exactly the case. In fact, the victims of the Mediterranean in 2011 were about 1,500; in 2012 they were about 500; in 2013 about 600; in 2014 about 3,500; in 2015 they were 3,771 and, in the first months of 2016, they were 410, or 35 times the number of deaths compared to the same period of the previous year. So, don't tell us that these operations have reduced that mortality, because exactly the opposite has happened. I am sorry to see, then, also some hypocrisy because we, now, run and even do not accept changes to the text because we must be ready at least for October 3 of next year for the dead of Lampedusa. Everyone is in favour - probably only we will vote against this proposal - because of those poor dead. But I see so much hypocrisy on the part of those who care about the deaths of Lampedusa and forget all those who are dying these days in Greece and in other neighbouring countries. Nobody cares about those guys. Is the life of those who die in the Aegean worth less than those who died in Lampedusa? I don't think so. It is time to put an end to both hypocrisy and continuing to place responsibility on someone else. First, in fact, it was even the fault of the so-called Bossi-Fini law, then it was the fault of the decree-law Maroni and then we came to say that it is all the fault of Europe. No, it doesn't add up. I have here a nice article last week, which I kept, published not in the daily newspaper "La Padania" but on "la Repubblica" (then bombproof), which reports an analysis by Ilvo Diamanti, according to which the safety report does not leave much doubt, especially with two revealing figures: only 32% of Italians still have confidence in the European Union, while 56% would like to close again and immediately all national borders. These are two surprising numbers in the country that, only a few years ago, blindly believed in the magnificent and progressive fate of the unification of the old continent. According to Professor Ruggiero, professor of cognitive psychotherapy at the "Sigmund Freud" in Milan, we used to be the ones in Europe who believed most of all, almost in a romantic, sentimental way: we were in love with Europe, but now people understand that the European government is not there. There is Germany trying to be humanitarian, there is France that decides to be rigorous, there is a European Commission that lays down rules for the reception of refugees, but then no country respects them. The mistrust in Europe and the desire to put the guards back at the borders bring to light a very interesting figure, the third figure you do not expect. 40.2 percent of the Democratic Party's sympathisers campaigning against Shengen want borders back. Sure, it's a smaller number than the legitists and the forceists, but it wants the boundaries back. How do you explain that? From the right - as Barbagli, the former director of the Cattaneo Institute says - you expect it, not from the left. Of course, a burden has the media that paint a Europe in chaos every day. But the raw truth is that the very people who are trying to prove that immigrants is not a problem - I am talking about the Italians on the left - actually think that they are. They are not afraid of losing their jobs, but they are alarmed by a new crime that, unfortunately, the real data confirm and there is a fear that immigrants will compete with them in welfare, in the assignment of homes - for example - or in the ranks in the emergency room. The left has solved the problem by not addressing it: he simply did not talk about it. He blamed it all on Europe and stop. These things write to you "the Republic" and I think illustrious professors. But the time has run out to blame Europe, because at the moment it has taken a different attitude of completion from ours: it is reacting. While we are here talking about these things, eleven countries, of the Schengen area and not, have suspended Schengen or have limited its scope; seven countries have built or intend to build barriers, walls and obstacles with barbed wire. What do you call them if you don't reject them? Only, when the League spoke of rejections and repatriations, we were racists, while Britain, France, Spain and Austria are racist today. Are these the racist countries or are we crazy? We are crazy because, when everyone defends themselves from this wave, we create the days of memory. I remember, among other things, that there is already Refugee Day. So if we establish that of migrants and the memory of migrants, we are obviously talking about the illegals and not about those who come here and escape the wars. But when the other countries put numerical limits or block borders, we invent to go and catch them under the Libyan coasts; we invented the abolition of the crime of illegal immigration; someone also tries to make the expansion of citizenship pass by applying the ius soli, that is, the ius culturae. Yesterday I heard someone say that they were French and Belgian citizens who made the attacks in Paris. They have become European, French and Belgian citizens, thanks to the ius soli, and we are now trying to introduce them into our home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Not only is it not enough, because we have invented ius culturae, which really represents the risk of something that is lacking in our identity and security at home, because we intend to give citizenship not to those who have come to our country within a certain age and have studied: we also give it to those who have not obtained a degree, as in the case of vocational training. Therefore, it will not be the ius culturee, but the ius ignorantie, because they may not even speak Italian and we would give him citizenship anyway. Of course, this is always better than what is happening in Bologna where, in order to better integrate migrants, we set up Arabic courses so that we can better socialize with the children who come to our home. We're really raving madness here. I should like to conclude by mentioning one issue. Today we are talking about this bill - you will vote on it - while ten days ago we talked about immigration and the European Council. Today Renzi will return to the Senate again in view of the next European Council. It makes me shudder the idea that we are here to do this, while Renzi will be talking in Europe with a country like Turkey that goes with ISIS, which allows itself to close the opposition newspapers and to completely control the information: he will be talking with blackmailers who ask for money or the advantages for their entry into Europe in order to be able to take on migrants: 6.4 billion for what? To keep them at home and starve and freeze them to death? Don't you feel a little hypocritical about turning around and staying here today celebrating? Today there is only one defeat to be celebrated: the defeat of all Europe's immigration and migration policy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u48	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, my speech will certainly be different from the previous one. In any case, I announce my Group's vote in favour, even if this day is limited and what it means to have a national day, which has no civil effect and will not become a celebration, for children from school or for people from work. Rather, it will be a time when, every year, Italians will have a moment of reflection through - as the law says - initiatives and meetings in order to raise public awareness of civil solidarity with migrants and respect for human dignity. These are the founding values of Italy, Europe and also of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is therefore an important moment. It is also important the chosen day, October 3, which recalls October 3, 2013 and the massacre of 366 migrants who, off Lampedusa, lost their lives in an attempt to land in Italy. It is also important for me that we remember those who tried to emigrate to our country to escape wars, persecutions and even misery. In this case we, with the establishment of a Day of Memory, do not make the distinction, which must be made, but for other reasons, between the "economic" migrant who flees for misery and the migrant who has the title to ask the right of asylum to our country. On this point, I would remind everyone that we have Article 10 in the Constitution, which reads: The foreigner, who is prevented in his country from effectively exercising the democratic freedoms guaranteed by the Italian Constitution, has the right to asylum in the territory of the Republic, in accordance with the conditions laid down by law. This passage is very important, because it guarantees the foreigner the right to asylum in Italy, and not for the persecutions he suffers in his country, but for the fact that in his country he is not guaranteed the same democratic freedoms that an Italian has, who has a person who lives in Italy. Therefore, we take as a reference and as a model - and it is right that it is so - our democratic freedoms and we try to give them to all those who, not being able to have them in their country, come to us in some way, even in the most diverse, most difficult and risky ways, as it is happening for migrants who die trying to arrive on our territory. This is therefore a very broad view of the right to asylum, which is greater than that of other countries. In my opinion, however, those who, even in this House, believed that they were defending the Constitution from a reality which, on the other hand, has all the other reasons and concerns its beauty and validity, must concentrate on its first articles, including Article 10. On the other hand, for us Italians, a celebration of a day, referring to people who, precisely, risked their lives and, in some cases, lost it to come to us, is basically a recognition of what has become Italy: a model for the countries of the world, and not only of an economic nature - we know, in fact, how much we are in economic crisis and how hard we are getting out of it - but an effective model, especially for the countries of the southern shore of the Mediterranean and, in general, for all African countries, that could see in other countries, with which they certainly have a greater cultural affinity, the models to flee to. Instead, this does not happen, and they see Italy as a country to reach. Finally, other countries have also made choices similar to ours and I like to remember that a country, far from us geographically but very close from the point of view of cultural affinity and our migration, Argentina, already in 1995 established 3 June as an Italian immigrant's Day. Therefore, we have a country far geographically, like Argentina, which recalls the epic of all Italians who have fled for purely economic reasons, and in few political cases, during the last century and also the previous one from Italy, making their fortune but, above all, the progress of that nation. This spirit of remembrance of a situation that certainly has historical value - and these moments, unfortunately, for various reasons, will not end shortly - is therefore in favour of the institution of the Day of remembrance of the migrant who tries to enter our territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u51	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the Italian Left - Left Ecology Freedom of the Mixed Group will vote strongly in favour of the draft law under consideration, and not because we never deny the vote in favour of the establishment of days of memory and memory, but because I believe that the establishment of the National Day in memory of the victims of immigration responds to issues that we will have to address, starting today afternoon, after the communications of the President of the Council with a view to the European Council on 17 and 18 March. It is, therefore, not a day of celebration and celebration - as Senator Calderoli said earlier - but a day in memory that is a warning. I would like to remind you that, following the tragedy of the 366 refugees who died in front of the island of Lampedusa on 3 October 2013, all - I am also referring to representatives of the European institutions - went there to say never again. In front of those coffins the solemn commitment was made to change and modify the policies of European and Italian immigration. Unfortunately, since then there have been many other victims. The bill for the establishment of this day represents, therefore, anything but a purely rhetorical passage, being a way to remind us all of the values of the reception and representing a warning and commitment to address absolutely urgent issues both for our country, and for European policies. I would like to remind you briefly that - alas - what has happened in recent years and is continuing to occur after the tragedy in Lampedusa has also seen a profound change in the European framework. I am referring to the emergence in many countries - I am thinking of the last elections in the German Land - of xenophobic forces that are trying to use the issue against immigration and exploit feelings of fear. I am also referring to the non-positive approaches taken by the European Community in failing to implement its solemn commitments, perhaps to Italy, on which, at one stage, the weight of the arrival of immigrants has fallen. More generally, I would ask you to reflect on the current situation in Greece. There have been absolutely unfulfilled commitments, the first of which - I would like to remind you here, because every time we talk about it, but then nothing happens - concerns the amendment of the Dublin regulation. This is one of the issues we have dealt with in the Commission and that, whenever the President-in-Office of the Council speaks in this Chamber, is placed by us as one of the fundamental questions, on which, however, we continue to go ahead and - indeed - we are moving towards a situation and taking opposing positions - alas - in Europe. We are witnessing - this should also be the place of reflection when we are about to vote on this draft law - the creation of walls and barbed wire at the borders in Europe. What is happening on the border between Macedonia and Greece tells us that Europe is profoundly changing its values and the ideal foundations on which the idea of European integration was born. We all know what this is doing, including as far as Schengen is concerned. There is therefore a development in recent weeks, in the approach to the issue of migrants in Europe, which is only materializing in the policies of closure, rejection and the cold indifference towards the lives of millions of people. The drama that happens and the deaths drowned in the river that marks the border between Macedonia and Greece have unfortunately been welcomed in general indifference. There is an approach that emerges without shame from the words through which the President of the European Council Donald Tusk spoke just a few days ago, at the conclusion of the meeting of the European Heads of State and Government with Turkey on 7 March. He said that all decisions are sending out a clear message: days of illegal immigration to Europe have ended. All the issues we have discussed extensively, and therefore a true incardination of serious reception and immigration policies and also some very clear points on the European agenda, are not only ignored, but in reality the approach that is being pursued is very different and the opposite is true. The words of Tusk that I have just quoted disturb us and, in front of them, it is clear that this is not a problem of managing migratory flows from one country to another. We still do not understand that we are faced with a mass exodus and the fact that Europe can hide behind the policies of rejection and closure of borders is an idea that we not only reject from a political, ethical and valuable point of view, but is also unrealistic, because it absolutely does not want to deal clearly and precisely with what is before us. The phenomenon of immigration is structural. Today they emigrate to war, but you know perfectly well that the issue of immigration for economic and environmental reasons, which will be the real issue on which we will have to deal in a structural way, is all ahead of us. Therefore, the day we intend to set up also has this task, which also concerns Italy. I would like to remind you that, despite the advice of the judiciary, we are still discussing the issue of the abolition of the crime of illegality, which I would like to strongly recall here, for a very simple reason: one of the issues we pretend not to see is that in Italy and in Europe there is no longer any way to enter legally. What are the channels? There is one example: we have talked several times about humanitarian channels and about seriously organising entry into Europe and our country, but we do not want to confront each other on this and Europe shows a total closure. The illegals are still mentioned here, but I ask all of us a question: what are the channels of legal entry into our country and Europe today? There has been an example, which I would like to remind you here. On the part of the Community of Sant'Egidio and the Federation of Evangelical Churches in Italy a concrete experience has been carried out: 93 immigrants entered in a legal way, demonstrating that a serious policy of entry through humanitarian channels can be built. These are the issues we should be dealing with. The day we want to set up is not just a warning or a remembrance, and it must not only call to all of us the values of welcome. A society like ours can't help but measure up to this. It also serves to make commitments and to raise awareness. The day also means making commitments as a country and as a Parliament, to put this issue clearly and definitively to Europe. Europe must finally create a serious policy of reception and management of immigration, otherwise we will not only have betrayed European values, but it will also prove that it is absolutely not able to handle this phenomenon in a realistic way with which - it is useless for us to pretend nothing - we will have to measure ourselves for many years still. For all these reasons, we are voting in favour of this draft law. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and the Senators, Mr Bell and Mr Gatti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u54	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I am a parliamentarians and I believe that the stage of debate in this House of a measure is important because, when there is a dialectical confrontation, the positions are also clarified. I entered the Chamber, where the draft law for the establishment of the National Day in memory of the victims of immigration is being examined, without having any particular prejudice to the text. However, in the light of the debate and the vote on the amendments, I will not vote for it. There is a fundamental political, moral and cultural issue that was highlighted yesterday in an exemplary way by my colleague Micheloni. In a beautiful intervention he has in fact emphasized how the tragedies of immigration and the people who lose their lives at sea - this is - have characterized the whole phase of Italian emigration to foreign countries. He quoted about six shipwrecks in which from 200 to 500 fellow countrymen lost their lives while migrating abroad and documented a migration phenomenon that affected 60 million Italians who went abroad and who today affect millions of people who seek salvation from war situations or for economic reasons. The two amendments to the measure (which will also go to schools, where children must be taught not only the phenomenon of emigration of the last three years, but also what has been historically) simply ask to remember those who drowned at sea coming to Italy and also those who drowned at sea while emigrated from Italy; Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator D'Alì, states that in schools, when it comes to migration, one must remember the tragedies of immigration and also of emigration: I cannot hear myself reply once again that if we change the measure this must return to the House. There is still bicameralism and we all know that, if there is political will, even if it goes back to the House, it can be approved in fifteen days and in the next fifteen days it becomes law. I would like to know why for the umpteenth time - this is arrogance - we hear that the amendment is right, the observation is well founded, but we have to withdraw it because the measure must become law even if it is wrong. If it was just like my colleague Micheloni said, I can understand that. Mrs Lo Moro, however, said that this is not the case: it is a mistake because there is also the bill presented by Senator Manconi who, as a choice, wants to dedicate the day only to immigrants, to those who lost their lives at sea coming to Italy. That makes the situation much worse. I would like to ask my colleagues, also on the basis of Article 3 of the Constitution, what a difference exists between an Italian immigrant who went around the world and lost his life by sea and an immigrant who comes to Italy and loses his life by sea. What is the difference from the historical and cultural point of view between our immigrants and today's immigrants? Do we set up Memory Day only for immigrants and do we not remember our immigrants? If this issue had gone unnoticed, I could understand that, but it was raised at parliamentary level and amendments were tabled. I will write and ask - rhetorically, because it is here that the text should have been corrected - because never has a majority in Parliament rejected the amendments that matched our immigrants with immigrants. 10:46 a.m. (Follows YOUNG PEOPLE). Why did they want to remember only those who lost their lives at sea, coming to Italy and, after the Italian victims of emigration and their shipwrecks were mentioned in the parliamentary debate, there is not even a line on them in the bill? Why is it said that in the school we must only talk about the phenomenon of immigration and we do not intend to include it in a broader phenomenon that has affected Italy, which has been a country of migrants? It will be said that during the year there are other days that remind them; it is true, but not in the specificity of this type of emigration and tragedies at sea: this is the place where to place, rightly, the memory and the historical perspective of the phenomenon, if we want to tell young people that what today is up to the people who come from Africa or Asia, one day was the turn of our emigrants, who had to go abroad for necessity. I am therefore very disappointed to see that, for the umpteenth time, a text which is culturally, morally and politically indefensible because it does not recognise this level playing field, which is essential, is being fired in the face of comments and amendments which are well-founded and which are considered right instead of adopting a small amendment and referring the text back to the House of Deputies. Of course, this gives rise to a number of considerations, such as those raised by colleagues in the League. We are faced with a unilateral decision: it is no coincidence that the bill presented to the Chamber of Deputies was signed only by PD colleagues and none of the other groups. Instead of making it an opportunity to unite the Senate on a particular subject, which could have been found, the bill therefore becomes a factor of division. Congratulations! The division you want it, because in front of a shared reasonableness, instead of performing the proper function of the Chamber that intervenes in second reading, in this case the Senate, which is to amend what is wrong, as usual we close in the arrogance of the "no," why not!, claiming then that perhaps in another measure and at another time we will see to correct it, predicting what Senator Micheloni himself said to be a right thing. But now we do not change the text in this respect, and that is why I will not vote for the draft law in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u57	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, it seems to me that the content of this draft law in today's debate has been deliberately misrepresented. I believe that there are no great contraindications in sharing a bill that has absolutely meritorious objectives. Those who want to challenge it - including you, Mr Calderoli, when you were in this part of the Chamber - have used artificial and surreptitious motives, because you obviously wanted to misunderstand the real objective of the bill, which is much simpler than the arguments, albeit valuable, which have been put forward today by those who question the measure. I believe that, as has been said, the decision to remember a human tragedy, which has affected thousands and thousands of people who died at sea to escape poverty, persecution, fear and hatred, is a good and just thing. I also believe that the thread between the present reality and the past conditions of us Italians must be completely rebuilt, which - as has been said - were affected by the phenomenon of emigration, in a dramatic way from 1850 onwards, when our ancestors emigrated to the American coasts and died in the Atlantic Ocean. It seems to me it is absolutely useful and formative for future generations to remind our children, our grandchildren and the children of our grandchildren, who on October 3, almost 400 migrants perished in the Sicily Canal, leaving history this memory and this memory. We cannot betray what we are living, but we must make it imperishable in memory and history. On the other hand, it is a bill that does not provide for a celebration, does not include holidays, breaks or interruptions of school lessons; it only provides that, on the basis of ministerial directives, that day the institutions, especially the school ones, move and work to remember this sad human event. We are not here, Mr President, to wash our consciences, but to fill the consciences of each one of us and to raise awareness of a subject that is historically, culturally and socially ours, that is, the reception, hospitality and solidarity, in which we Italians - thank God - have always distinguished ourselves. On the contrary, this is an opportunity to involve many states of the European Union that have so far been deaf, reluctant and have not helped us and that have only now become aware of how dangerous this phenomenon is to our social integrity. The data that our institutions provide to us is really terrible. The sad events of recent times have led the European countries to a more resolute attitude in dealing with this phenomenon and a mechanism for the relocation of migrants has been set up, but it is difficult to start properly. Italy is playing its part in building the structures of first identification and in the collection of fingerprints of migrants and in the reception, but we are still absolutely late, in fact the data on relocation in Europe are really uncomfortable. At the territorial level, according to the data of the Ministry of the Interior, the Italian Regions that contribute most to the reception of migrants are Lombardy, Sicily, Lazio, Piedmont, Campania and Veneto but clearly there is a need for Europe to do more. Indeed, according to the latest data from the European Commission, out of the 160,000 posts that should have been made available by the other Member States of the European Union in the relocation mechanism, only 6,900 migrants have currently been provided. From the figures quoted, we understand therefore that the institution of the National Day in memory of the victims of immigration is a warning for a deep reflection on a phenomenon that still takes on proportions difficult to govern, but that only through the union of all European countries will it be possible to face in respect of the dignity of human life and the right to life. For these reasons, the People's Area Group will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u60	CRIMI (M5S). Hypocrisy, falsehood and complicity: these are the words that come to mind when I hear about establishing a National Day in memory of the victims of immigration. We could use this time to try to solve the problems related to the management of the reception of immigrants and instead we are losing time to establish a day of memory that solves nothing and does not serve citizens; it does not help anyone: not even the victims and the family members of the victims or their relatives and friends. It only serves to prepare your theater of hypocrisy: on the one hand there are those who "immigrants" at home, always and anyway (even if a house no longer have it, because we destroyed it); on the other those who think to wash their conscience with the days of memory. Make this law your own. We are not accomplices to those who block Parliament from doing useless things and then comes on TV to play the part of the statesmen. This is a law to the memory of the desperate, but eat on the cooperatives that those desperate ones try to welcome. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You approve these useless laws to celebrate the memory of the victims of immigration, when Alfano is still the Minister of the Interior, when cooperatives, from right to left, eat on immigrants. It is only a way to cleanse your conscience with the blood of the desperate, those desperate whom you first helped to make such by bombing their countries. You do this to hide Mafia Capital, you do it to hide the shame of CARA and CIE, on which you speculated, electorally and not only. The hypocrisy of propaganda also concerns colleagues of the League, who say "40 euros a immigrant" when that money we know that then the cooperatives (or right or left, it doesn't matter). It is shameful that the Parliament of the Republic, instead of a law on conflict of interest, a law on anti-corruption, a law to address the problem of businesses, where entrepreneurs and workers kill themselves, of a citizenship income, which can create those living conditions that make this country more welcoming, uses time for the establishment of a day of memory. We lost two days of the week. Yesterday another unnecessary afternoon of discussion: Let's face it. A ridiculous debate over the years on how to solve the problem of immigration, how to combat it, who takes advantage of it, who is more sensitive to victims and who is less. Immigration is dealt with as a problem to fight for someone and a manna from heaven for someone else; an electoral flag on which to converge its voters, the vouchers on the one hand and the bad guys on the other, to label those on one side and those on the other, and each one plays his part. Where were you during the European Semester when you said you would solve the immigration problem? So you solve it, with the day in memory of the victims? Perbenist hypocrisy kills this country. More than the corrupt and more than the thieves, the drama is the intellectual dishonests, the ones who will then take votes saying that they have faced the problem of immigration with useless laws such as this. Italy is overwhelmed by corruption, conflicts of interest, bureaucracy and lobbying. No day goes by that they don't arrest any of you for bribes, bribes, office abuse, and anyone who has any more. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There is a country where as soon as it rains, roads, bridges and houses collapse. There are citizens who kill themselves because they lose their jobs, their homes and no longer have an income. There are schools where the kids camped. And you waste public time and money setting up memory days. We need the laws; we need the kidnapping of those who live there, of those who live on immigrants, the kidnapping of those lands where immigrants work in black and work there thanks to political agreements of the right and left. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] We need transparency in those cooperatives that eat on the immigration disaster and are skyline co-operatives, falsely Catholic, and red co-operatives, falsely communist. Today we are talking about the establishment of a day of memory and not about solutions to immigration and deaths at sea; those we solve if we begin to respect what you also voted in the House on the motion of 18 December last, in which the 5 Star Movement presented seven clear points on how to solve the problem. So we have presented the proposals and the solutions you only put forward propaganda and hypocrisy. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] The truth is, gentlemen, none of you want to solve the problem. No one really wants to deal with it. The issue of immigration must remain unresolved in order to allow you to pick up votes in the electoral campaign, on one side and on the other. If you were serious, many of you would lose your chair. That's why we'll abstain. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u63	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will not be voting in favour of this measure. I would also like to say to Mr Crimi: it is not scandalous that Parliament is holding two sittings to hesitate a draft law on a day of memory; it is scandalous that this happens on an external input for an agreement outside Parliament and that Parliament itself, while recognising the opportunity to amend it, cannot do so. That is what the rapporteur said. So this is a Half Memory Day. We want our young people to have a partial view of the phenomenon of immigration, a historical phenomenon which is absolutely linked to our history (and I am speaking, as I said in general, as a Sicilian), and we also want to avoid, in a single context, the decision of something that could be decided peacefully and - I would also say - almost with the agreement of all. The usual logic of numbers that prevails over the logic of reasoning, rationality, the logic of what it would be more correct to do. But by means of moving on with this system - we are talking de minimis, as everyone can understand - sooner or later you will surely find the point of difficulty, and you will not need the logic of numbers, both those originally chosen by the Italian people and those occasionally captured within the corridors and parliamentary buildings. Sooner or later this will happen to you, and then your attitude of absolute closure to the possibility of a slightly more comprehensive reasoning will be censored by the Italians when they are called to express an assessment of your work as a Government and as a majority. The National Day in memory of the victims of immigration was an absolutely simple and flat issue. You wanted to cut it down, cut it down. In the course of the debate, despite the statements you made, you then wanted to mortify one of the main issues that concerns our history. It is true, there is a dramatic episode so much that this Day sets it - and this has not been disputed by anyone - on that day's anniversary, but it is from those themes that the general characteristics of truly overall interest of education to be given to our young people are drawn out. You want everything to be brought back to this area: you will not have our vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u66	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to declare the Democratic Group's vote in favour. The reasons for a vote in favour have already been expressed in the absolutely brilliant and very well-argued speeches of my colleagues in the Democratic Party, so I could go back to them. On the other hand, the same report and also the rapporteur's reply totally convince us: therefore, the arguments have been fully carried out in this House. I should rather like to take this opportunity to express my thoughts on the things that have been said in an explanation of vote, which cannot leave me indifferent because of their aggression and because the arguments used and inappropriate attitudes adopted by some political groups seem absolutely wrong to me. I want to remind everyone that this must and wants to be a day against indifference; a day when Italy (that parliamentary, the Italy of the Government, the Italy of the institutions), also following the stimulus given by the Committee 3 October - which, starting from Lampedusa, collected 30,000 signatures - means something very simple: that those 368 dead at sea do not leave us indifferent. Of course, there have been many more who died at sea before and after, so we take what was a symbolic event, in the meaning of the symbol given by my colleague Manconi. We are aware that dead immigrants at sea do not end on 3 October 2013. We are aware of this, but taking the opportunity of such a tragic event and trying to try, even in this Chamber, to remember, even mentally, with the right attitude, those 368 bodies that were collected at sea and were distributed to be buried throughout Italy, is a duty and is also an opportunity for a country like ours to demonstrate, as the Undersecretary Pizzetti said, the degree of civilization of the country itself. This morning we are not discussing immigration policy and migration flows. We will be discussing this in the afternoon. Of course, immigration policy is a topic very close to this Day, so much so that we were not indifferent: the rapporteur recalled Mare nostrum with the Letta Government, I can add the next measure, Triton, which is inspired by the same principles, but many other things have happened outside the elected institutions. I am thinking, for example, of the 30-year sentence - which he has held in his faultless arguments - inflicted on the scafist who has been recognized. There was, therefore, a very strong attention also from the judiciary which led to the condemnation of the organizers of this trip. But then what are we talking about? We are not talking about dividing the deaths at sea between immigrants and migrants; we are talking about the duty of a state like ours, which, compared to a civilised Europe, stands as a country in which civilization has very ancient roots, based on acceptance, suffering and also on the fact that ours has been a people of migrants, as many rightly recall. There are times when you have to have the ability to remember - and you are civilized if you do - also the events of which others have been victims. Perhaps there were few present, but the debate that took place in the Chamber on immigration made me suffer because it forced me to deal, inside me, with an episode of my life, or rather with the fact that my life, and even before that of my father, was conditioned by the fact that a ship - the Nova Scotia - was sunk into the sea. On that ship was my grandfather who left a family where the oldest was my 13 - year - old father. Imagine, then, if we do not know what it means to die at sea or die as prisoners of war while being taken to concentration camps (or in other circumstances). There are times when, even when approaching one's own feelings, feelings of victims, one must have civilization, foresight and sensitivity, also as a country as well as as as subjects, to look towards others. At this moment we are not talking about emigration but we are looking, with the sensitivity of a country that knows emigration and its suffering, at the immigration of others who, leaving misery and war, have approached our country. Where, then, is the contradiction? I have taken advantage of Mr D'Ali's stubborn will to amend the text to try to say something very important to me, namely that there is a fundamental political choice. It's not true that we forgot about the immigrants. No one can forget the immigrants and it is no coincidence that the PD Group has entrusted one of the most important statements to a colleague who has built his history and the history of his family on emigration. Being aware of the suffering that causes emigration makes us richer, more sensitive, more welcoming. It allows us, that is, to have that degree of civilization and awareness that, in front of the episode of Lampedusa, makes us open not only our heart and our sensitivity but makes us consider that as a founding moment of the civilization of a country. Yesterday, on behalf of the Senate, I welcomed some students to discuss with them the day of March 17 that commemorates the National Unity. During the debate with those boys from Stanislao Cannizzaro scientific high school in Rome (to whom I promised that I would remember them in this House because they were here in the morning and could not be greeted by the President) I asked this question: do the days of memory make sense? Does this day make sense? Does National Unity Day make sense? Does the day make sense, which we will talk about shortly after, in memory of the victims of the mob? And I've heard so many of those kids say, "Yes, it makes sense, because we often do not know our history, because the facts become facts of news and history many years later, and we of the things that happen in Italy know little because in the schools you have also taken away the possibility of deepening. These days aimed at deepening serve this: to convey the sense of a memory that makes us a more civilized people, especially because welcoming, because suffering, because capable of appreciating and fully understanding the sufferings of others. Those people must not be forgotten, also because our policy must take account of them and because the education of our students cannot ignore the memory on these Days. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u67	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico (Technical Institute for Piovene Guide), in the province of Vicenza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u70	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u71	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No. 1878. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The draft law No 1203 is therefore absorbed. As you said earlier, I will suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 11.14 a.m. and resumed at 1234 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u72	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 7 April. This morning, immediately after the timetable has been defined, the draft law on the day of memory of the victims of the Mafia will be examined until 2 p.m. If not completed, the general discussion on this measure will continue this evening, after the vote on the resolutions concerning the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council on 17 and 18 March. In the afternoon session of tomorrow, in addition to the follow-up to the bill on the victims of the mafias, will begin the examination of the bill on the third sector. In order to conclude the general debate, no closing hours are foreseen for tomorrow's afternoon sitting. The amendments will have to be tabled by 12 noon tomorrow. During tomorrow afternoon's Question Time, the Minister of Health will answer questions about updating the essential levels of vaccination and prophylaxis care and prevention. The examination of the amendments to the draft law on the third sector will begin from 3 p.m. on Tuesday 22 March, followed by the final vote on the measure at the single sitting on Wednesday 23. Both sessions of next week do not include closing hours. After Easter, the Assembly will meet again from 10.30 a.m. on Wednesday 30 March. The timetable for that week provides for discussion of the Commission's reports on the waste cycle, as well as of the motions on the international abduction of children, on Boko Haram, on the stabilisation of ecobonus, on the privatisation of railways and on the inspection union. It will also be examined, where concluded by the Commission, the bill on the crime of negationism, already approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. On Thursday afternoon, 31 March, the question time will take place with the Minister for Labour and Social Policy. In the week from 5 to 7 April will be discussed the decree-law on the reform of cooperative credit banks, being examined in the Chamber of Deputies, as well as, where concluded by the competent Commissions, the draft law on environmental agencies and competition. Finally, the calendar can be integrated with the President's communications, pursuant to article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, on the bill related to the public finance maneuver in the field of cinema. During the general debates in this House, the Commissions will be able to convene, in particular the 5th Commission, to express opinions on the draft law on the third sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u73	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, which met today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the programme of the Senate's work for January, February and March 2016. - Document XXIII, n. 7 - Report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and related environmental offences on the management of radioactive waste in Italy and related activities - Document XXIII, n. 8 - Territorial report on the Liguria Region, of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and related environmental offences - Document XXIII, n. 9 - Report of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and related environmental offences on the state of progress of the reclamation work on the site of national interest in Venice - Porto Marghera - Document XXIII, n. 11 - Report of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and environmental offences related to them on the situation of the reclamations of chemical poles: the "Quadrilateral of the North" (Venice - Marghera, Mantua, Ferrara, Ravenna) - Drawing of Law No 54-B - Amendment to Article 3 of the Law of 13 October 1975, n. 654, in the field of competition and repression of the crimes of genocide, the Chamber of humanity and of war 7, as defined by the Court of the Court of war, as defined by the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice and the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u74	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted by a majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 7 April 2016: [[Wednesday 16 March ant. h. 9,30-14 - Drawing of law n. 1894 and related - Memory day victims mafias - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 17 and 18 March 2016 (Wednesday 16, pm.) - Drawing of law n. 1870 and connected - Third sector (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) " " pom. h. 16,30 Thursday 17 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 17 March pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister of Health on: - updating of essential levels of care - prevention of vaccination and prophylaxis]] Amendments to draft law No 1870 and related (Third sector) should be tabled no later than 12 noon on Thursday 17 March. [[Tuesday 22 March pom. h. 15 - Following the bill n. 1870 and connected - Third sector (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) Wednesday 23 " ant. h. 9,30]] [[Wednesday 30 March ant. h. 10.30-13 - Joint debate on documents: - Doc. XXIII, point 7 - Commission report on the waste cycle in the management of radioactive waste in Italy - Doc. XXIII, point 8 - Commission report on the waste cycle in Liguria - Doc. XXIII, point 9 - Commission report on the waste cycle in Porto Marghera - Doc. XXIII, point 11 - Commission report on the waste cycle on the reclamation of the chemical poles of the North Quadrilateral - Motions on the international subtraction of minors - Motions on the protection of children's rights in the territories controlled by Isis and Boko Haram - Motion No 421, Girotto, on the stabilization of ecobonus - Motion No 496, De Petris, on the partial privatisation of Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane - Motion No 487, Amidei, on the acts of inspection union of parliamentarians - Drawing of Law No 54-B - Death of Denialism (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 31 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 31 March pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 54-B will be set in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday, April 5 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 18, reform of cooperative credit banks (Ove approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Eventually followed unconcluded arguments - Drawing of law n. 1458 - Establishment of national system Environmental Agencies (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2085 - Annual law for the market and competition (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Approved by the House of Deputies) (Contributed to the maneuver of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 6 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 7 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 7 April pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 18, reform of cooperative credit banks) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 1458 (National System of Environmental Agencies) and No 2085 (Yearly Law for the Market and Competition) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. The calendar can be integrated with the President's communications, pursuant to article 126- bis, paragraph 2- bis, of the Regulation, on the bill n. 2287, connected to the maneuver of public finance, in the matter of cinema, audiovisual and entertainment. Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 17 and 18 March 2016 (3 hours, including explanations of vote) [[???Governo 30' Gruppi 2 ore e 30 minuti, di cui: PD 34' FI-PdL XVII 17' M5S 16' AP (NCD-UDC) 15' Misto 14' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 12' AL-A 12' GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) 11' LN-Aut 10' CoR 10' Dissenzienti \5'???]] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 18, reform of cooperative credit banks) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 24' GAL (GS, Pp, M, Id, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2085 - Annual Market and Competition Act (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 42' Mixed 38' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 34' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) 31' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissententi 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u77	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I rise to draw your attention - but you know perfectly well - to some of the issues that we have also raised at the Conference of Leaders. In the meantime, as my fellow senators will have noticed, the discussion of the bill on the Municipality of Sappada has disappeared from our calendar. I would like to remind you that this is a matter of self-determination for a municipality which asks to be able to pass through another region with referendums. Moreover, the draft law had been adopted unanimously in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, therefore, we honestly continue to fail to understand why - it is a long-standing issue - we do not want to proceed in the sense of ratifying a decision of a local administration and community which has expressed itself in accordance with the rules. The issue was also addressed in the Conference of the Veneto Region and the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. I will therefore ask you - and other members of the Group will also be speaking on this matter - to re-examine this measure. I now come to the second question. I strongly repeat the question of the draft laws of oppositions. Now has been inserted the motion that commits the Government and all of us at the times provided by our Rules of Procedure to respond to all the acts of inspection union, which is a very serious issue here in the Senate because the Government hardly ever responds. Moreover, I would always remind my fellow senators that our question time is not like that of the House because here the Ministers answer only the questions to which it is pleasing to answer and not the questions that we freely ask. Honestly, all of us would like to know how we can fully fulfil our role even with respect to the citizens we represent. The same question is about the opposition's bill, which we have put several times. By now we have lost count of the times when we have asked for the calendarization of the bill on the ID of the Forces of Order, which has disappeared. We would therefore ask for a session, as was scheduled for Thursday 31 March for the motions (but in this case we would risk having five or six, to do nothing); we propose that the Wednesday afternoon sitting be devoted to it because the discussion of the Commission's documents of inquiry on the waste cycle, in our opinion, can take place quietly on Wednesday morning. Therefore, on Wednesday, by extending the session, we could insert the draft laws of the opposition and the bill on the ID of the Forces of Order and I imagine, as my colleague Catalfo will ask, that on the guaranteed minimum income (according to our proposal) or citizenship income. Mr President, these are the issues that we are putting to the attention of the House, with prayer - I repeat - to address once and for all seriously the issue of respect for the times - not just the motion - for answers to questions and questions. I believe that a formal decision is also needed, in addition to our request to include the opposition's draft law, which states that once or twice a month the sitting is devoted to dealing with the issues raised by the opposition. For now I ask you to include those drafts of law on the day that I mentioned and, above all, to reintegrate into the timetable of the work of the bill on the Municipality of Sappada [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u80	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement continues to point out, both in the Conference of the Leaders and in this House, the difficulty of the senators and colleagues meeting in session on the days they did not prefer. With regard to the repeated proposals for changing the timetable, and also to what President Napolitano, now Senator for Life, said that the Assembly should work from Monday to Friday, I note that in the schedule approved for the coming weeks, not only are there no assembly work scheduled on Monday and Friday but that, while all Italian citizens do not take advantage of any vacation and remain to work (because their working week consists of thirty-six-forty hours per week), the Senate "closes" from Thursday 24 to Tuesday 29. It has been six days since the House decided to interrupt its work. I also note that there is a great efficiency in extending the work of the Assembly even beyond the scheduled closing hours, until 23, 24, or who knows what other time, for the discussion of draft laws that are priority for the Government and the majority. I am therefore going back to what Senator De Petris said and to what she has denounced for three years now and not just by me at the Conference of the Leaders. I repeat, not only are the draft laws proposed by the oppositions not calendarized, but there is a great difficulty in lengthening the time, in order to allow - if anything - the discussion. I note this not only with reference to the time devoted to the discussion of motions and a single draft law of the opposition. We, too, at this point, call for the inclusion, as a matter of urgency, fifteen months after its submission, of the bill on citizenship income, so that it may be discussed on 31 March. We also call for no closing time for this sitting and for the Assembly to meet also on Friday, 1 April. Let's do a nice "April fish" to my fellow senators, who normally want to go home. Moreover, precisely because urgency must not be provided just to satisfy the demands and the so-called proclamations of the majority, but should be used above all to meet the demands of the citizens, I ask you to schedule the motion on the ISEE, because, following various rulings of the TAR, Minister Poletti appealed to the Council of State and there was a judgment, which established that, among the incomes counted for the purposes of the ISEE, the cheque for disabled people cannot be included. Since so many senators in this House are very close to the problems of the disabled and their families, at least in words, from what has been said over the last three years, we call for this motion to be immediately scheduled. We also ask that the accompanying allowance for disabled people and all benefits be immediately removed from the calculation of the ISEE and that all those Italian citizens and families who are struggling to live be reimbursed. At least they are not deprived of a right which must be recognised, acquired and which cannot be included in the calculation of the ISEE. I also understand that the Government has some difficulty in incorporating such a forecast, given that in the draft law on poverty, at this time under discussion in the House, it is thought that it is going to link survivors' pensions or social benefits or minimum integration to the calculation of the ISEE. So, the intentions are always to go hitting the weakest and the poorest. It is therefore time for this House to really show - not in words, not when talking to a single citizen, not in the news, not in television broadcasts, but in fact - that it cares about Italian citizens, the disabled and all those who are currently in serious difficulty in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u83	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, it is truly inconceivable what happened this morning, when it was decided to take out of the timetable a measure which, among other things, received from the Commissions favourable opinions, without anything that could stop its calendarization. We understand clearly that there were forced forces, first through an externation of the governor of the Veneto Zaia region, appeared the other day in the press, and then by the Province of Belluno with a remote-controlled agenda, by the Government that suggested to both, with an agreement, to carry forward this unholy choice. This can only demonstrate the will to talk about autonomy, federalism, issues that are absolutely no longer in the DNA of certain parties. I consider this to be truly shameful and I would ask that the measure be re-scheduled, in order to respect the wishes of a territory and a population who, in 2008, voted on a referendum in a plebiscite manner. Mr President, I do not know whether you realize the extent of the proposal you have made. She's shameful. We have come to the House to give answers to a population and, on the other hand, it has been decided to remove its will. At this point, on behalf of that territory, I strongly ask you to schedule that measure immediately and to give the necessary answers. I repeat once again that there is no opinion or basis for which he cannot be brought to the Chamber. It's a due act. The bill was scheduled, it must remain on the calendar, and this I strongly ask on behalf of those who, in all these years, have supported and fought for a measure legitimately voted. If the referendum is still of value to you, I would ask you to respect it and to re-calibrate the measure in question. [[Applause from the Mixed-Doing Group!]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u86	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I would also like to join those who have so far expressed their disappointment that an important point has disappeared from the agenda of the Senate concerning the passage of the Municipality of Sappada from Veneto to Friuli-Venezia Giulia. Mr President, this has created expectations for a community that has been waiting for more than eight years: in fact, the referendum that saw 95% of the citizens of Sappada vote in favour of the detachment from Veneto and the annexation to Friuli-Venezia Giulia is dated 2008, while today we are in 2016. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I realize that, when it comes to referendums, there is a certain discomfort in many parties that are represented in this House and in Parliament. The words referendum and popular sovereignty are annoying. It bothers us - for example - to respect the referendum on public water, as we saw a few days ago. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is annoying: 26 million Italians have spoken for public water, but it is annoying to vote on a law that states that water cannot be privatised. It would bother the referendum on drills if it were held on the same day as the local elections. We would save EUR 300 million, Mr President, but it is better to throw them out of the window than to risk losing a referendum that affects unfair advantages for oilmen. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Of course, in this case we are talking about a smaller referendum, which concerns a municipality, even a small one, in Veneto. But the Provinces of Belluno and Udine had also expressed their favour with this and the Regional Councils of Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia had also expressed their favour. Some might argue, on the substance of the measure, that the geographical, historical, cultural, economic, religious, political or linguistic conditions are lacking. Well, none of these reasons is true; indeed, they are all in favour of those who, at this point, claim and demand that the right recognition be given to the petition of a local community that, although small, has expressed itself with a large percentage of consensus regarding the union with Friuli-Venezia Giulia. Clearly, my request is predictable. The 5 Star Movement is in favour of the recognition of the rights of self-determination of those communities and the demonstrations of direct democracy and, above all, the referendum. That is why I come to ask you to maintain and reinstate this important item on the agenda, which has inexplicably failed this morning. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u89	Mr Pegorer (PD). Mr President, I am speaking only to support the words spoken by Senators Bellot and De Petris and by Senator Cappelletti himself, who preceded me. I signal that it is questionable and not understandable the deletion of the provision, which had found its right iter concerning precisely the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region to Friuli-Venezia Giulia. I shall therefore vote in favour of the proposal for the reinstatement of this draft law. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u92	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the inclusion of Mr Amidei's motion on the inspection union, with its 19 per cent increase in responses against the one hundred and twenty-seven days of average waiting. In spite of this, I take note of the unqualified will of the majority to postpone the discussion of the topic concerning the transfer of the Municipality of Sappada from Veneto to Friuli-Venezia Giulia. On the contrary, I think I can say that I take note of the wish of the Democratic Party to procrastinate sine the discussion of the subject, avoiding in any way the possibility of landing in this House, thereby expressing a political position unable to give the necessary responses, positive or negative, to the populations concerned, thereby expressing, among other things, a political position which is not transparent and - in my opinion - decidedly arrogant. It would have been better if the Democratic Party had not planned this bill at all, without generating expectations and illusions in the inhabitants of the territories concerned, and without, among other things, government incursions out of institutional logic, as evidenced by the positions taken in today's press by authoritative local representatives. The answers expected by the populations concerned, who have followed the prescribed process of law, concern in extreme synthesis the relationship existing between so-called ordinary territories and territories with special statutes, with all the load of inequality of economic and social treatment, absurdly and anachronistically guaranteed in the Constitution, which this brings with it. Precisely in order to try to face and limit the strong inequalities existing, especially in the territories and municipalities bordering the special territories - in this case 28 municipalities of Veneto bordering Friuli-Venezia Giulia - I propose to start the discussion, next Wednesday, of the bill n. 2279, concerning actions and projects in favour of the territories of the municipalities of the Veneto Region bordering the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, wishing that the majority want to face at least this unavoidable action of rebalancing. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u95	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, the only variant that you have announced in this House as a decision by the Group Leader in relation to the previous timetable is the removal of two measures. The first concerns long-term military promotions, and the decision taken is fine. All the Heads of Group in the Defence Commission have, in fact, jointly agreed to deal with this issue in the deliberating session so that, if the Presidency gives the authorization, we will not even be holding this debate to the House. The second measure that is missing in the new calendar - it has been highlighted by all the colleagues just intervened - is the bill n. 951, concerning the posting of Sappada from the Veneto Region. The timetable is proceeding very regularly. We have also increased the timetable - we are going to continue until 2 p.m. next week and we will not even have the closing hours for the first two days of the sitting - and, therefore, we do not understand why extrapolate the only text resulting from a subsequent territorial indication to the popular referendums calling for a change of borders. This Assembly has only one act to take, namely the final act of the approval of a law of the State as the conclusion of an iter that has already started, which has already seen the popular consultations and resolutions of the Regions (detachment and annexation). They are, therefore, in agreement with the citizens of a territorial reality; they agree with the Provinces that lose and acquire a Municipality; they agree with the two Regions (who surrenders and who accepts a territory). We do not understand, therefore, why this House has to set up stakes and stand in the way of the people's will when we continue to talk about the separation between politics and territory and between Parliament and the people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] When an act called for from below arrives, this House does everything in its power to carry a pillage, at this point, on its shoulders. Mr Pegorer made it clear that probably, even within the majority, there is no conviction of procrastinating sine die, and we hope that within the PD so many people respect at least the wills of the territories to which they belong. We are also calling for the North League not to change and keep the old timetable unchanged, and therefore for the Sappada measure to remain on the agenda. This is a measure that is being discussed without amendments (no amendment will be possible). It is simply a matter of taking action and giving a legislative body to this will, which is why, in time terms, if we want - apart from the general discussion - we could exhaust the discussion within a few hours. We have today's hours. We have the hours of this evening: whether it takes place late this evening or the third sector incarnate on Tuesday morning, we would not even have the amendments ready because we should present them by 12 noon tomorrow. So even the debate, if we wanted to complete it, will not take place before tomorrow after 12 noon and, therefore, there would be time to deal with the draft law relating to the municipality Sappada during this sitting. We would also like to ask for a second addition, in addition to not deleting the draft law on Sappada, I am referring to the inclusion of the debate on a motion tabled by the League this morning on the major issue of the transfer of territorial waters from Italy to France. Parliament has not been informed at all. The Liguria Region has not been in any way informed and less so have the economic activities, that is the fishermen of the place, who have been seen to fall on the head a measure that, given the cogency, the moment when they go to fish where they have always gone, makes them risk sanctions or even the confiscation of the means. We are asking for this motion to be dealt with as a matter of urgency, because we cannot wait for it to go too far. We call for the motion tabled this morning by the League for a debate on the transfer of sovereignty of the territorial waters of our coast, bordering France, to be included in the timetable because, in our opinion, it is extremely urgent. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u98	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, as has been clarified by our Deputy Parent Company, the North League will vote in favour of any proposal that provides for the maintenance on the calendar of the bill that provides for the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region and its aggregation to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. I would, however, like to understand whether the justification for the removal of this draft law from the timetable is linked to the fact that the majority considers that there are more urgent measures that deserve special attention or whether, on behalf of the Democratic Party, the choice of the majority and the leader of Zanda is political and then I have the following proposal. If this is just a matter of time and space, I would ask that the debate on this bill be included on the agenda for Tuesday 29, in an afternoon sitting, because I believe that the planned Easter break is too much. I also believe that there is plenty of time for Parliament to express itself on a proposal for a law from afar, since 2007, first with a collection of signatures of the citizens of Sappada, then with a vote of the City Council, with a plebiscitary referendum, with a vote of the Regional Council of Veneto, with a vote of the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia and with the vote of the competent Commissions of the Senate of the Republic. It is unacceptable that, in the face of the manifest popular will of the institutional bodies of our country, the Conference of Leaders, by the will of the majority, excludes the exercise of a fundamental right, a democratic right that is that of the communities, enshrined in Article 132 of the Constitution, to be able to belong to one territory or another in full freedom. I believe it has been a shameful choice to schedule this measure, creating hopes and expectations in a population that has followed the rules of your game, the rules of the Italian State's game, and that today is shamefully betrayed by the behavior of the majority. If you do not politically believe in the goodness of the provision, you should not have put it on the calendar. If you do not politically believe in this bill, you have the possibility and the power to vote against it. But throwing away the rock and withdrawing the hand is the most shameful thing that the representatives of the citizens can do. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The real answer to the autonomous demands would be the autonomy of the Veneto Region, but at least grant to those who have followed the rules of the game to be able to see respected their own will. I really ask every senator to review the decision taken at the Conference of Leaders and to vote freely for the measure to be democratically and responsibly voted in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u99	Colleagues, we greet students, students and teachers of the State Science High School "Bonaventura Rescigno" of Roccapiemonte, in the province of Salerno, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u102	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to join in the request made by many of my fellow Members from all the groups to put the Sappada measure back into the timetable for our work. Colleagues, as you know, more municipalities, in Montefeltro, have passed from the Marche Region to the Emilia Region passing from the Province of Pesaro to that of Rimini and there has been no trauma, nor has anything particular happened. It was a democratic and legitimate choice of those municipalities. Today there is a small municipality that has carried out all the democratic procedures to arrive at an answer and honestly we do not understand why the Senate should not vote and ratify the choice of those who, believing in the institutions, did everything they had to do to determine the free will of the citizens. I therefore support the request to put the measure back on the agenda of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u105	Sonego (PD). Mr President, as a border man, and indeed as a border man, I think it is right to draw the House's attention to the delicate nature of this matter. I believe that putting hand on the borders of the Regions and, in particular, on the borders of that Region, which have been, in many respects, tormented and the result of a history in some cases and for a long time even violent, requires a discussion and a very particular deepening. On the basis of this premise, I fully agree with the decision of the Conference of Leaders, which proposes a pause for reflection on the subject in question. This is a position, my own, which is the result of an ancient political and institutional experience. I consider myself an old regionalist and also a lover of the virtue of the specialty of the regional institute, which for a long time I have helped to govern, standing on the benches of the Council and also around the table of the Junta. For all these reasons, it seems to me that we must appreciate the decision of the Conference of Leaders and also the position which I believe I have understood both by the Government, which proposes appropriate political and institutional reflection on the subject. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). But what do you propose?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u108	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to join my previous colleagues in asking for an examination of the detachment of Sappada, a text presented by our former colleague Isabella De Monte, whose process began in the Commission on 22 October 2013. Those who participated in the Commission's work know the problems we have also encountered in order to find a simple coverage from the Ministry of Economy and Finance. This is not only a political but also an institutional crisis: if we are not able to respond to the people's will, we are placing ourselves in a position for which abstentionism will always be the first party. We must be able to respond to the request from the territory. I am delighted to see the deletion of this simple draft law for which I believe that half a day of the work of this House would be sufficient for its transmission to the other branch of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u109	We proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the schedule of the work of the Assembly of reinstatement of the bill on the transfer of the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. I beg the Secretary Senators to see if there's any weaves left in the stations. I would also ask the parliamentary assistants to recover any cards they may have abandoned, and then on request they will be returned. I cancel the previous verification and again invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the agenda of the president's session. I put to the vote the proposal to modify the schedule of the work of the Assembly of reinstatement of the bill on the transfer of the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly of inclusion in the timetable of the work of other draft laws. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the House to include other motions in the agenda. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the agenda of the president's session. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include other motions in the agenda. It's not approved. The timetable for the work adopted by the Conference of the Leaders and which I have communicated to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u110	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1894, 98, 248 and 1832. The report has already been printed and distributed. The rapporteur, Senator Campanella, asked to supplement the written report. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to have an honourable peace with the enemy in arms within his own borders. This is the situation of our country, where the mafias still today marry many citizens, in the North and in the South, managing or protecting militarily illegal and harmful activities such as the creation and burning of illegal landfills in Campania (I think of the land of fires) or replacing the State as guarantors of social and economic relations in the degraded neighborhoods, up to impose behavior or cutting entrepreneurs. I have heard citizens who have filed a complaint against common or financial offences or related to commercial activity. They were asked to withdraw their complaints to the judicial authority and, in the face of the refusal, began a real ordeal. The state still has a lot to put in place to accompany and support those who denounce. Those who denounced often feel alone in the face of criminal organizations. You see, ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of our police forces and the judiciary do their duty every day, but they do it with scarce funds and means, and their difficulties are felt. The person threatened by the mafia, though protected, feels such operational limitations, feels on his skin the lack of effectiveness. This situation must be overcome as soon as possible. As soon as possible, draft laws, such as the draft law No 455, already presented, must be brought to the Chamber to prevent political propaganda from being carried out on persons subject to surveillance by Mafia association, a bill that has been waiting for the Commission since April 2016. As soon as possible, the system for the management of property confiscated from the Mafia must be revised, starting with liquidity and its use, which must be made available to the community as a matter of urgency and transparency to demonstrate that they are more fruitful if managed in legality. But, in addition to practical operations, the cultural isolation of the mafias is fundamental, taking away the consciences of young people. (The sitting was suspended at 13.19 p.m. and resumed at 13.19 p.m.) The production of civic sense and belonging to the community is important; the consecration of positive values, in the face of unbridled individualism and the oppression that underlie the Mafia culture. Those who have had the opportunity to be among the people in a poor neighborhood of some big cities - such as Palermo, Rome, Naples and Milan - know that there often the State is perceived only as vexation. The school and social support, attentive and respectful, are fundamental in places like these. They are the first outposts of the state, how much and more of the stations of the Arm of the Carabinieri and of the police police stations, how fundamental is the work of many associations engaged in these very difficult contexts. Free coordinates many of these realities and for twenty years celebrates the National Day of Memory and Commitment in memory of the innocent victims of the mafias, carrying out activities aimed at keeping alive the memory and awareness of the poisonous concreteness of the mafias. This bill, which proposes to establish the National Day of Memory and Commitment in memory of the innocent victims of the Mafia, can build an important suture between civil society engagement and institutional commitment on this issue. On the day of March 21, the beginning of spring and for this reason, in the collective imagination, of rebirth and hope, the institution of the day represents an opportunity to restore centrality in the public debate to the theme of the fight against the mafias, to promote the culture of justice and legality, to empower young people and stimulate them to a personal commitment in the defence of the values of civil coexistence. On this day, public events, ceremonies, meetings, initiatives to build a memory of the innocent victims of the mafias and events that have characterized recent history and the best practices put in place by the state in the policies of contrast and repression of all the mafias can be organised. We need to be aware that this measure can be very useful. But, in order for the action of the State to be sufficient, it must also take on all the concrete actions that I described earlier, from the management of the confiscated goods, made in a transparent way to the extreme, to the paroxysm. It must be clear to everyone that legality is wealth and civil peace, while lawlessness is poverty and it is that sort of underground civil war that occasionally emerges and lives in so many places in our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u112	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with great pleasure, affectionate emotional participation and a high sense of responsibility we are meeting here today, with the common objective of establishing a National Day of Memory and Commitment in memory of the innocent victims of the Mafia. It was proposed, for this important occasion, on 21 March, also to follow up the twenty-year celebration organized by Libera, which chose, in 1996, the first day of spring, when the awakening of nature becomes a metaphor of renewal of a spring of truth and social justice, which brings an end to a winter of suffering and mourning. The list, composed of over nine hundred names of innocent victims, which every year, in a different city, is read in a solemn and moving ceremony, has served to keep alive the memory, in our hearts as in those of many widows, widowers, parents, children without fathers, mothers and brothers, of more known victims, the names of which recall a strong emotion, and less known, for which we feel the civil and moral duty to remember them and pass them on to future memory, also offering moral support to their family members, in a shared moment of intense reflection. So I want to address first of all a thought to all the family members who, with affection and transport, have helped to tell, in all these years, the stories of civic commitment and sacrifice of their own and of their loved ones. We must ensure that these extraordinary examples finally become part of our collective memory. I also greet the many associations, to whom I express deep gratitude and gratitude, for the incessant work of defending the memory of the victims. Italy - in particular its Mezzogiorno - has offered a tribute of blood and continuous sacrifice, from the early twentieth century until today. There are the many victims who fell in the exercise of their work or who were in search of the truth: members of the Forces of Order and the judiciary, who with their heads high, despicable of fear and danger, did not give up on threats and intimidation, but represented a bulwark of the State in the fight against organized crime, a shining example of moral virtue and civil passion. Then there are many names of journalists, politicians and members of civil society who, not wanting to bend to unwritten rules of submission and fear, paid with their lives to have kept their backs straight and to have told, denounced and fought a system that seemed invincible. How can we not remember, among the victims of mafia, all the deaths of cancer and other diseases associated with the spilling of hazardous waste and the burning of toxic material in Campania, in that area now sadly known as the land of fires? The data recently published by the Higher Institute of Health highlight the high incidence of cancers among children and adolescents: our solidarity goes to them, but also the promise that such a thing can never happen again in our country. Finally, I would like to mention - and they too must not be forgotten - the many citizens who have fallen because they are guilty only of being in the wrong place at the wrong time, during a settlement of accounts or at the time of the explosion of an intimidating device. We must also send them an affectionate memory so that in our country we no longer die in cold blood because the State cannot prevent feuds and shootings in the light of day and in public places. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as a citizen, a senator and a member of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of the Mafia, I would like to reiterate that only through an incessant operation of memory recovery, cultural and civil reinforcement and support for the laws and constitution of our country, will we succeed - finally and definitively - in defeating from the bottom every manifestation of organized crime. Through the establishment of this Day I believe that it will be easier to pass on, tell and make known many of these stories to citizens, as to young people in schools. These are facts which, after years, cannot and must not be forgotten. It is in fact essential to educate the new generations in legality and justice and to introduce measures of good administration to prevent crime, combating the problem at the territorial and social level. For the worst defeat for the State occurs when those who denounce, those who do not turn on the other side, those who shout out loud that the mafia must disappear, feel alone and abandoned, this Day must be a warning to remind everyone that the State is there and does its duty first of all and all. The shame, which too often is an obstacle in this struggle, automatically becomes an ally of the mafia and it is against this that we must fight all, in a country that is still soaked in mafia culture, what many commentators call subculture. Too bad, however, that calling it subculture does not simplify the task, but - indeed - makes it even more distressing. As Peppino Impastato used to say, another excellent victim I want to remember (left alone behind the microphones of his Radio Aut, when he denounced the mafia interweavings of his land): The Mafia kills, the silence is pure. Since we do not want to be killed individually, nor as a community, in the name and memory of the many victims, let us support each other in this battle and keep our backs straight, as straight was the back of the many victims we want to remember. If every citizen keeps the memory alive, the mob will have no future. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Campanella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u114	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u115	Madam President, in contrast to this debate, I would like to say that I am very concerned about the risk that we are being flooded with political correctness. I have to say that Parliament exaggerates, in my opinion, in a sort of secular sanctification of the days of memory; we are now going from the day of remembrance to the day of remembrance, to the day of remembrance and the day of remembrance. I can't forget, in my youthful past, when the same thing began to be done with the Resistance: he felt on the radio "Bella ciao", while he was not in use before, but that was precisely the period (the second half of the 60s) in which perhaps our Republic and our Constitution risked more, from General De Lorenzo to the massacre of Piazza Fontana, until the attempt of coup by Junio Valerio Borghese. I'm saying this to say we don't have to take the risk of doing the same thing with the mob. Let us be clear: today the anti-mafia is in crisis. Today, if you go around or watch the newspapers carefully, you will find that anti-mafia controversy is even stronger than the Mafia's contrast. The suspect invests some characters; there are entrepreneurs who solicit the anti-mafia badge and who however are in the smell of mafia (it happened in Sicily). The same dissolution - we talked about it yesterday in the Commission - of some municipalities becomes the object of political battle and the accusation you do not have the cards in order - also becomes the object of political battle. At certain moments I too, who criticized him at the time, hear Leonardo Sciascia's words echo in my head about anti-mafia professionals. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]] I asked a brave and good young man, Pierfrancesco Diliberto (in art Pif), what he thought of these polemics: Pif replied that it is difficult for an anti-mafia executive to have a strong character and that, of course, it is almost impossible to put two or three together. So we're at a time when the celebration doesn't work, let's put it this way. And it doesn't even help pretending to have all the cards in order. I have heard the anti-Mafia prosecutor say on a recent occasion that at this point we run the risk of containing the phenomenon and not fighting it. I think that in their hearts some of the protagonists of the fight against mafias (which has been and has been important) of the last twenty or twenty-five years today wonder, for example, whether a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the mafia still makes sense. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary committees of inquiry should last until they clarify what the phenomenon is and propose extraordinary initiatives to counter it. If they become permanent, the bicameral parliamentary committees of inquiry become something else. The auditions are held and those who are being auditioned say "Thank you very much for listening to me." I'm with the cards in order, someone else isn't etcetera. I have heard a number of things in the Commission. I'll tell you one, without any intention of political controversy. A mayor - I will not say which, to avoid the clash of a party against a movement, which you can imagine - was clearly subject to mafia intimidation with blackmail, because one of his advisors came and told him: There's evidence of abuse here. Put it in the safe and take this. This mayor told us: But, you know, there were no explicit threats, and so there was no crime at all. You understand that we continue to talk about the Mafia, even within the Anti-Mafia Commission, erasing all the experience of studying and contrasting with the Mafia. It is clear, in fact, that the threat is precisely so. Pif always said, in this piece that I publish in the magazine "Left": We were sitting on the street in Palermo, the table very close to the cars. At some point one, a little more arrogant, started playing the horn. My friend from Reggio Emilia said, "That's the mobster." And we Palermons told him: "No, no, that's not the mobster. The mobster would have been very kind, never arrogant, and would have apologized." Well, you see, it's obvious. Those who know the Mafia know that the Mafia is an intolerable and absurd power, but it is not to be confused with the bully. And the fact that there is no crime doesn't mean anything at all, because mob intimidation is known and must be recognized. I say this because the celebrations leave me very perplexed. If I were in this Parliament, instead of filling my mouth with anti-Mafia, I would listen to the holy words of the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella, who, every time he speaks, unheard, raises the question of another phenomenon, which is the generator of the Mafia, corruption. A Commission of Inquiry into Corruption would be much more effective against the mafias, including the military and even the killers, than we are still doing. Instead, it is too easy to blame the killers, who are loaded with life sentences, who we keep in those conditions, without seeing, instead, who exploits a certain rhetoric of the anti-mafia to continue to do his business. There have been cases I'm not quoting. There was also an anti-Mafia mayor who gave money to the relatives of the mobsters to talk to their relatives in prison, even exceeding the regulations of restriction and other examples of this kind. I am making this speech because I believe that the truth must be told in Parliament. We do not just take sides; we have to tell the truth because what has been said here, even if we are very few to listen, someone will read it and stay. It is then very important to tell the truth. Having said that, I am the first signatory to one of these many proposals, the one to establish the Day of legality and memory of all the innocent victims of the Mafia. You could tell me: But then are you in contradiction with yourself? No, because, having said that, there is something that is saved. This something I have seen grow over the years and it is at least the attempt to make the anti-mafia walk on the legs of so many boys and families that have often been forgotten by the state, not listened and not valued when they were willing to evoke the sacrifice of their relatives to do something. I am talking about all the families and not just those of the illustrious victims of the mob; of all the victims of the mob. Every year on March 21, the first day of spring, there is this event that Luigi Ciotti organizes. It was beautiful in 2015; now it will be a bit different and this year it will be in Messina. On the first day of spring of Italians and Italians normal get to the square in many not having the truth and the solution but putting the problem. Despite everything, remembering this Day is a way - in my head at least - to get out of the building, open the doors and let in some air and, therefore, I will vote in favour of this institution. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u116	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a short and perhaps even symbolic draft law: it establishes the National Day of Memory and Commitment in memory of the innocent victims of the Mafia. It's an important law, though symbolic. With the Sicilian mafia, the Calabrian 'ndrangheta, the bell camorra and the other Italian mafias symbols are important. They serve to remember and to reaffirm where good is and where evil is. Am I Manichea? Well, yes. With the mafias there is no choice: you fight or choose complicity. I could paraphrase Tolstoy, at the beginning of Anna Kapina; while the fight against the mafia is done in ways that all resemble each other, saying it and doing it every day, inflexiblely, the contiguity and complicity have many different manifestations, such as the omerta, the oblivion, the administrative and intellectual sloppyness, the opportunism. Read how these serve to distinguish who fought with courage and frankness against crime and was killed by the mafias by those who instead remained to look, for indifference, cowardice or for convenience. Isaia Sales, in her recent and beautiful book "Storia dell'Italia mafiosa" she recalls how Giulio Andreotti did not go to the funeral of Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa. When they asked him to account, he replied: I prefer baptisms to funerals. Here, a law like this in the name of those who did not laugh at the one to say the least unhappy beat the historical merit - posthumously, unfortunately - to guide us and lighthouse in the dark times of bureaucratic grayness that obscures the memory of the evil mob and the good of those who fight it. But there is one thing: to the importance of symbols and anniversaries we must add something else. Why is the Senate Act No. 2134, which follows the adoption by the House of Deputies of the proposed People's Initiative Act No. 1138, not progressing? We would desperately need to update and adapt the anti-mafia code and the system of prevention measures to change and we would need to do legislative maintenance on the National Agency for the Administration and Destination of property seized and confiscated from organised crime, to enable better management of the immense assets stolen from the mafia. Why - President and Government - is that proposal firm in the Justice Commission? Why doesn't the reform, even if it compromises, of the prescription make progress? Why do we allow the lawyers of the mobsters to pull to earn the extinction of the crime by prescription up to cassation, so as to assure them of impunity? You see, President and colleagues, on December 22, 2015, the Court of Cassation deposited the judgment on Rosario Perri, the director of the technical office of my municipality, who had relations with the local 'ndrangheta of Desio and with its summit, Annunziato Moscato, condemned in turn in the context of the investigation called Infinito. Perri's crime was declared prescribed, even though he had written the unmistakable and definitive words that he committed that crime. Now, the City of Desio has decided to propose civil action for the damage from crime for as much as 7 million euros. I think that in a civilized country a serious crime against the public administration cannot be prescribed so easily, all the more so if these crimes are the stock of culture of the interests of the mafias. That is why the Senate should soon examine the reform of the statute of limitations. I am therefore pleased to support this draft law, which identifies on 21 March the National Day of Memory and Commitment in memory of the innocent victims of the Mafia, a day already celebrated by the Free Association, with the participation of thousands and thousands of people. It is therefore no coincidence that I too have signed the bill and that it has a parallel to the Chamber of Deputies, in the proposal signed by Hope MPs, Mattiello and others. But we can't stop here! [[Applause from the PD and Misto-Si-SEL groups and Senator Bulgarelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u118	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u119	Madam President, today we are discussing the proposal to set up a national day to remember the innocent victims of the mafia and their commitment. I believe that this argument can never be considered to be sobriety: it is something that must lead us to have attention every day. Today and every day, in our country, there is a story to remember: a story imbued with pain, which tells of lives swept away by the vile hand of those who use violence to obtain personal advantages in a bullying and illegal way. These are stories of men and women who have chosen to be on the side of legality, perhaps paying a very high price. For family members who have experienced such situations every day is a re-emergence of details and memories that still kill: names, photographs, articles in newspapers, trials in courtrooms. Stories of a daily life, of families, of affections cancelled forever. It is a moral duty, for those who remain, to keep alive the memory of those who are no longer there, but it is even more so for the innocent victims of the mob. It becomes a sort of urgency, Mr President, for the family members of the victims to keep alive at least the memory of those who have been killed in the name of dignity, honesty and to assert legality. As exponents of the North League we cannot fail to remember, among the victims of the Mafia, also the victims of human trafficking, carried out by unscrupulous traffickers, who have found support and collusion with representatives of organized crime in our country. The Group has already voiced its opposition to the adoption of the draft law previously voted by the Assembly; for the same reason I would stress that it will be appropriate to remind the Government that in this case too little is being done against the Mafia. On this day all the victims of the mob will be equal and will scream the same thirst for justice; it will serve to shame material executioners and senders, it will serve to convey a bit of strength and courage to the many magistrates who every day suffer all the difficulties of the fight against organized crime and it will serve to the guardians of the order that with bare hands fight against these wild beasts ever more fierce. I always remember that sometimes someone still expects the mobster like the man who wears the coppola and the wolf, but it's not like that anymore. Remembering is important, but it is even more important to know the truth about the massacres that have bloodshed this country and that still remain unanswered and unaccountable. So far there have been about 1,120 innocent Mafia victims tearing, like a deep cut, over a hundred years of history in this country. They are women, boys, children, pensioners who by accident or by precise will of the thighs end up killed for matters much bigger than them. Who knows how many of whom you have no memory of will end up in the oblivion of a dusty archive in a remote country of province or will be brooded or kept hidden by family members as a pain too great to make public. We must honour the memory of the fallen in the service of all the Forces of Order, that is, those who have sacrificed their lives, remaining victims of terrorist acts or criminal actions in order to maintain a high democratic spirit of freedom. The victims of duty are those belonging to the State Police, the Carabinieri's Army, the Finance Guard, the State Forestry Corps, the Prison Police, the Municipal Police and the National Firefighter's Corps. It is necessary to do justice to all those dead and their families. However, Mr President, those who have made a mistake must pay and must do so with certain penalties, without condoning them. Only in this way can we truly honor those who have sacrificed, often consciously, their lives for a better future and for courageously affirming legality. The state must be able to take action to recognize and remember in a worthy way those who have sacrificed their lives for civil society and for our security. The decline in Mafia murders and as a result of the number of innocent victims recorded since the 2000s is good news, but this fact must not make illusions, because the Mafia kills less, but enters the institutions and remains deeply collusion, as evidenced by the 130 municipal councils dissolved for mafia infiltrations in the last fifteen years. The Mafia does not hesitate to kill women and children: death is the only law that counts and of which it is its owner. There are 124 innocent women killed by mob hands in Italy and 105 were minors, including children and sometimes small children of a few months. For many years the so-called Mafia code of honor has been sold as something parallel and positive, but perhaps this positivity was more worthy of film; then we analyze the data, weep and we come to the conclusion that mafia crime does not spare anyone. Let's think about all those cases where women and children have found themselves victims of chance, but in reality chance was a very high probability of being killed; a very high probability, because they put an device in a block (therefore it was possible that innocent people would die) or, as in some attacks, they would shoot themselves in the pile. As has just been mentioned by those who preceded me, not to forget the innocent victims of the Mafia was chosen on 21 March, thus institutionalizing the initiative of Libera, which has already adopted for years the first day of spring as a symbol of the social battle to keep alive the memory of the innocent victims of organized crime. We know or should know that no one is allowed to remain neutral when on the one hand there are those who inflict violence and, on the other hand, those who suffer it; when on the one hand there are those who kill and, on the other, those who are killed. Madam President, we should probably recover the original meaning of the word 'victim', which we have forgotten. "Victim" indicated the pure and innocent living being, sacrificed to the gods, and expressed the history of those who suffer the violence without guilt, unexpectedly and unpredictablely, above all without the possibility of escaping. He is a victim not only of those who suffer violence on his flesh, but also of those who stand by him and suffer the loss and consequence of injustice. Our anti-mafia experts have been convinced over the years that the best lesson in legality - and therefore anti-mafia - is to make the Republic work. The better the Republic works, the less the mafia is needed. General Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa said that the battle we must fight is complex. The State will beat the Mafia when it guarantees as rights what the Mafia give as favors. On the other side, from the mob, the words of the boss Pietro Aglieri, who said to a magistrate: "You see, doctor, when you go to school and talk to our boys, they listen to you. But when they come out and look for a job, who do they go to? They come to us. This story tells and says that memory is important and the commitment to memory is as important: both must be kept alive. What would we know about the Holocaust if it was told by some German executioner and not by the deportee 174 517. This is also true of the innocent victims of the mafia and terrorism and of all grave injustice. [[Applause from Senators Dirindin and Divine.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u120	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u121	Madam President, commemoration and memory are no longer enough. It is no longer enough to entrust to individuals, among other things often left alone, the fight against the mafias. Mafias can be defeated: it must be said above all in these classrooms; it must be said by all institutions and in every intervention. We must use the power we have to legislate to say that mafias can be defeated. This is something that is no longer considered: it seems that the mafias exist, they must be allowed to exist and, indeed, we must compromise with them. Instead, it is time to say enough about compromises and downside games. Mafias can be defeated and must become a mantra. We have here the duty and the power to prove that the mafias can be defeated. It is no longer enough to commemorate and remember: we must do something to avoid then having to commemorate the victims of the mob, to which obviously our memory and support for families goes. But in these classrooms we must bear in mind that the mafias can and must be defeated. We can defeat them and therefore we must do so, with the power to legislate that we have, to defeat them every day, in all our actions carried out in these classrooms. Enough with the commemorations: concrete acts. Let's defeat the mafias. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u124	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, I think it is useful to mention the Environmental Impact Assessment Commission (EIA), which is little known, but which is no less important. The above-mentioned Commission, which was intended to protect environmental goods in a preventive way, was requested by the European Union after the adoption of a similar act, at the end of 1969, by the United States Congress. Specifically, the national environmental impact assessment is introduced in Italy on the basis of transitional rules which derive from Article 6 of Law No 394 of 1986 establishing the Ministry of the Environment and in accordance with Council Directive 85/337 of 1985, as amended and supplemented by EEC Directive No 97 of 2011. According to Community legislation, projects which may have a significant impact on the environment, understood as a natural environment and anthropised environment, must be subject to environmental impact assessment. This may be national or regional according to certain design categories. It is structured on several levels: the EIA itself, the SEA (strategic environmental assessment), the AIA (integrated environmental authorisation), the EIA special (assessment of works of the so-called objective law, the great works of the Law Lunardi n. 443 of 2001). Its function, therefore, is absolutely strategic, especially for those territories, such as Italy, subject to a structural and endemic danger of hydrogeological failure due to the particular conformation of their places and coasts. The technical commission for the verification of the environmental impact VIA-VAS (established by decree of the President of the Republic n. 90 of 2007) is constituted by 50 members, including the president and the secretary, appointed, by decree of the Minister of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, between free professionals and experts coming from the public administrations with adequate qualification in technical-environmental matters. By decree of the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea of 18 July 2007, then, the operation and organization of the commission were established. In essence, the EIA commission is the public body that decides whether or not a work can be done. There is, however, a problem. It is known that many of its components work for private companies whose business depends directly on the opinions of the commissioners: an anomaly that the government has not solved, despite several times urged on the point. It is therefore quite difficult, if not impossible, to speak of impartiality. In fact, it does not seem plausible that Commissioners EIA, called upon to express opinions on major public works, such as - by way of example - the TAV, could have private interests. In this regard, from the information gathered on the subject, it emerges that at least two Commissioners have been removed from the committee as investigated (Walter Bellomo and Luigi Pelaggi). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). However, the Minister for the Environment, Mr Galletti, has not yet given a response or taken any action, as has the President of the Council, Mr Renzi. Therefore, I think it is useful to turn the spotlight on the committee in question, stressing the need to renew it, since the same, which has been extended and expired several times since June 2014, is now in standby, and at the same time to equip itself with professionals without any conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-593.ana.u125	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.59 p.m.
