ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 31 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u4	[[The President stands up and with him the whole House.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today marks the 7th anniversary of the earthquake that hit L'Aquila in 2009 and 57 other Abruzzo municipalities causing 309 victims and thousands of wounded and displaced people. The crater that opened on the night of April 6 in the historical center of L'Aquila is the photography, imprinted in my memory and in the memory of all Italians, of the destructive scope of that earthquake that in a few minutes has broken hundreds of lives and swallowed a part of the history of a city. This personal and painful memory is accompanied by the memory of an incredible solidarity demonstrated by everyone, and in particular by the common people, towards the Abruzzo population. And the Abruzzo people themselves, even if so badly affected in their affections, in their homes, have demonstrated to Italy and the world an extraordinary constancy and firmness in reacting to that destruction in order to make their contribution to rebuilding what the earthquake has taken away from them. The closeness and help of the institutions is a concrete way not to forget that moment, that earthquake. But in order to return to normality we have the task of fully restoring to the city and social fabric their identity. It is only by proudly preserving its history that the people of Abruzzo will be able to look to the reconstruction with hope. As the President of the Republic of Mattarella recalled on 16 November last on the occasion of his visit to the city, "L'Aquila is preparing to win this difficult test, bringing its identity and its history into a better tomorrow." With this wish, I invite the House to observe a minute's recollection in memory of the victims of the earthquake of 6 April 2009 and I express my personal closeness, together with that of the whole House, to all the people of Abruzzo. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u7	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, we feel a great pain, a pain that will probably never go away from the heart of all Italians, as you said before. In conjunction with the anniversary of the tragic 6 April, a huge wound is reopened inside us, which will always remain open, even when the reconstruction has been completed. L'Aquila, in fact, is not only a capital, but is a symbol, an active community, a city with a truly important architectural heritage, not only for the Abruzzo Region, but for Italy as a whole. Before we remembered the dramatic numbers of that tragedy and the damage suffered. These are the earthquake numbers that hit the Eagle and its neighboring municipalities on April 6, 2009. Impressive numbers, which are not enough to describe the real meaning that the catastrophe has had for Abruzzo and for our country. The earthquake in fact destroyed one of the most beautiful medieval cities in Italy, hit one of the largest and most vital universities in Central-South, created an international scientific case and brought to the surface the umpteenth example of evil and corruption in our country. A six-year-old wound, but in some ways still hard to heal. Today we are here to remember, today we are here not to forget, we are here to ask for a solution and an answer to the many questions so far unanswered. A few months ago, this House voted in favour of the request to set up the parliamentary committee of inquiry. We hope that the truth will finally emerge and we hope above all that justice can be done for the citizens and for the businesses of the Eagle and the other affected countries, who have the right to know if there have been people who speculated and committed crimes on their own and on those of the deceased. But beyond the investigations - judicial or parliamentary - it must be reiterated, even today, that in L'Aquila remains a community that still lives an exile condition, it remains a city gentrified by its new neighborhoods. By the way, the discussions on the quality of the construction of the new town are almost exhausting, when instead the most dramatic fact is that there have been districts and dormitory neighborhoods, where the system of social relations has been annihilated. It seems a paradox, but in 2016, against the recovery of many historical centers by the small and large Italian municipalities, we have to record that the State (after as many as four Governments) still fails to rebuild L'Aquila. The work is going on forever, the shame grows!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u10	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, seven years have passed since that 6 April 2009 when the strong earthquake caused death and destruction: 309 victims, thousands of wounded, destruction of the historic centre and entire districts of the capital city of the Abruzzo Region and of 57 countries in the province, the crater, with thousands of displaced people. Symbol and memory of that earthquake were the many young people who died, housed in the student's house, where a part of the building collapsed crumbling; 55 youngsters, including 50 so-called "out-of-office" university students, many of whom were there that night at L'Aquila, because in the following days they had lessons and exams. Unfortunately, we also remember the thoughts and reasonings of jackals, who, after a few hours, already thought about the affairs of reconstruction, which added anger to the strong pain. Also this year, as in the previous anniversaries of the earthquake, the commemorative torchlight was held, with renewed emotion, which has been repeated for six years and which culminated, in Piazza Duomo, with the reading of the names of the 309 victims. L'Aquila is one of the many natural disasters that in the course of history, even the most recent, have hit our country. Unfortunately, however, even in this post earthquake, opacity, mismanagement of resources (I would like to remind you that 11 billion have already been spent and 7 more will be added), irregularities, illegality, slow reconstruction and problems, especially in school construction. For the citizens of L'Aquila and the crater countries, especially for relatives to the victims, who have been formed in association, transparency is necessary and it is necessary to create the conditions for guaranteeing justice. In this sense, Parliament has a great responsibility, in addition to this commemoration that risks being a facade and an end in itself, to continue the process of setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the problems connected with reconstruction, in order to bring to light the pathologies that have emerged both in the emergency and during the reconstruction. The Parliamentary Group of the North Autonomous League expresses sentiments of condolence to all the relatives of the victims and of closeness to the eagle people and ensures the utmost commitment to help heal the deep wounds that the tragedy of 6 April 2009 caused. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u13	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, of course, our Group also supports and participates in the huge tragedy that has struck this area, that is - as you said, Mr President - the municipality of L'Aquila and more than 50 municipalities in the area, with more than 300 deaths. It was the fifth earthquake of all time, in a classification of destruction, and the eagles, as they had done at the beginning of the last century in the earthquake of Messina the Sicilians or those of Northern Italy or those of Campania, have been able to roll up their sleeves and carry on their reconstruction, which still continues in these days. The fact that there are 424 yards open today is very significant. 9:50 p.m. (Follow Barani). Of course, Madam President, in every situation the institutions have been up to the task, both local and national administrations. The Berlusconi Government itself, with its head of Civil Protection Guido Bertolaso, had set up 19,000 housing for earthquake victims (new towns), accommodations which, of course, once delivered, one after the other began to crumble; in the face of good intentions there were bad actions on the part of those who, continuously and systematically, want to speculate or sow the seed of evil in every action, even noble. These days it is even the conviction of the person responsible for the proceedings. Even when politics and institutions are up to it, then we are confronted with the social and entrepreneurial fabric that unfortunately speculates. I shall conclude, Madam President, by making one final point that I made a few years ago. The bad figure we did in the building, but the bad figure in the Eagle we did even when, at first instance, scientists were condemned because they had not predicted the earthquake: an earthquake cannot be predicted, so we reaffirm our solidarity with these scientists who could not foresee it and with all those institutions and administrations that did their duty.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, it has been seven years, seven long years since that night. We want to remind you here and express all our closeness to the people of L'Aquila and the other municipalities of the crater. We want to remember the 309 victims, we want to remember the thousands wounded, we want to remember the boys and girls of the Student House. Tonight, at the torchlight, there was a banner with a request, a cry still from those citizens: "Truth and justice for L'Aquila". That is also our task. We cannot just remind ourselves and make yet another commemoration; we must continue to commit ourselves, with the Commission of Inquiry, not only to shed light on what has happened in the reconstruction in recent years, but also to shed light on the responsibilities. It is true that in Cassazione there was a certain sentence, but we know perfectly well that many of those victims were also caused by false reassurances and by those who underestimated what could happen. These seven years have been a long ordeal in which reconstruction has struggled and has been constantly studded by episodes of evil, by attempts at speculation. Reconstruction has struggled because of absolute uncertainty about funding. I would like to remind you here that one of the first issues we have just addressed was the desperate attempt to give certainty to the flow of resources for the reconstruction of the Eagle. I would like to remind you that even today - and fortunately things have improved somewhat - this state and the institutions have not fully assumed responsibility for the lack of real and constant commitments. For many years the citizens of L'Aquila and the crater have felt abandoned. Although the situation - I repeat - in recent times is improving and the yards are open, the work of complete reconstruction is still far away. When you pass by the Eagle at night you can still see that black hole: it is the black hole of those who did not know - and perhaps not even wanted - in time to be concretely close to those citizens and rebuild the sixth historic center of Italy for monumentality. It's an open wound on the responsibilities of the many. Yesterday there was yet another collapse of a balcony in the new town; the famous new town that helped to curb the reconstruction in order to do other types of operation. In these years, marked by delays, I would like to remind you that, even today that the yards are reopened, many resources are still missing to complete the reconstruction and many nodes remain open. Unemployment in L'Aquila is much higher than the Italian average. Despite these construction sites, we continue to have very serious problems. There is a huge problem of identity. Here we want to pay homage to the many citizens who in recent years have continued to hope and also to fight to rebuild their city and restore a meaning to the being of the Eagle and an identity to their own existence. I repeat that we are expressing solidarity today and I remember, however, that this House should once again take on concrete commitments because reconstruction is certainly not over yet and the objective is still far away. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u19	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, we are also very moved by the memory of this calamitous event of seven years ago, which has left no escape to many Abruzzo people, suddenly hit in the middle of the night. In addition to the victims, we must remember all those people and families forced to leave their homes, losing everything they had built up with the sacrifices of a lifetime until then. The earthquake devastated the territory of Abruzzo, beginning with L'Aquila, involving even about 50 municipalities, some of which have been completely destroyed and, together with them, also a large part of the important historical, artistic and architectural heritage of these cities. In every tragedy, however, it is right to pay homage and recognize stories of great professionalism, sacrifice, humanity and solidarity. Here I would like to remind you of all the Forces of Order that have helped to provide first assistance to the affected populations both in those days, and in the weeks immediately after 6 April 2009. I also recall the important aid that in Abruzzo was constantly coming from the ONLUS and the world of volunteering from all over Italy, both in the form of basic material goods, as well as of personal involvement in relief and assistance operations. In particular, I would like to recall the Municipal Police Corps of Rome, which, in the months following the earthquake, effectively collaborated with the urban police of L'Aquila and provided evidences of support and concrete and effective solidarity to the Abruzzo drama. As every year, the torchlight was held last night in memory of the 309 victims of the earthquake in L'Aquila. The demonstration, promoted by the family members of the victims, is always an opportunity to ask for truth and justice on these facts, despite the great risks of the trial at the National Commission had the epilogue in the Court of Cassation. On 20 November 2009 the sentence that acquitted six of the seven members who had been sentenced to six years in prison at first instance for falsely reassuring the eagle and underestimating the seismic risk at the end of the meeting on 31 March 2009 was confirmed. The only one sentenced to two years was the former Deputy Chief of Civil Protection. I would like to conclude with a thought of hope for the future. Despite the many difficulties encountered in the reconstruction of the affected territories, some important initiatives are evidence of a spirit and a desire to return to the normality of a life that suddenly broke seven years ago. We never have to think like we do right now. Eagle people probably need not only solidarity, such as what we are now expressing in this House, but also support and concrete facts to lift up permanently and give a future to this beautiful city and its territory. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u22	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, today in L'Aquila the city was declared mourning not to forget and to mark how much is still alive and present in each one the pain for the many lives fallen under the rubble of the earthquake. Seven years of incalculable pain and anger have passed since that day. No justice for innocent victims and survivors. Fear defends and, instead, too many people in my city were sleeping and, perhaps, dreaming or waiting for that thought that prevented sleep to disappear from the mind. Colleagues, it is not easy to put yourself in the shoes of those who have lived it, yet you can try to imagine to understand what it was, to feel the length of the moments, the screams of twisted walls, the crumbling of a plaster, the weight of a wall that obstructs the passage, the pain of a torn body, the smell of dust and calcinacci. It is possible to try to live a bad dream of this type, but with the awareness of having the enormous privilege denied to the eagles to be able to drive him away and return to the life of always with their loved ones and within their own home. Right and proper is the moment of remembrance in this Assembly of the innocent victims of the earthquake that scourged in one night the capital of Abruzzo, but for many families the "macerie" are still there, immobile like the tombstones of remembrance. I would like to thank the Members who have stressed in this House the economic difficulties facing the population, the difficulties faced by the many unemployed young people and families who have to pay large bills and still continue to pay loans for destroyed homes. Names linked to faces and stories were marked in the silence of this night, after the path of a torchlight that for seven years has become the appointment for all the eagle who, to the endless sound of the 309 chimes, live a web of emotions difficult to understand, join in mourning and some receive strength to hope to succeed. They hope to see again the most beautiful and safest city, because the loss of their loved ones was not in vain and for the many young people full of hopes, who left us prematurely on that night. The Eagle is an open wound of the country and cannot heal until all truths emerge and until justice is done for all the abuses and illegalities that continue to be a source of profit for few and of great suffering and discouragement for many, to whom it hurts to walk among those butts of desperate buildings, among the endless scaffolding covered with rust, in search of those privileged palaces that, through clouds of fine dust, irrespirable and smelling, slowly revisit the ancient splendor. The eagles of the seismic crater are tired of words, of extemporaneous visibility, of the many unfulfilled promises, of the rivers of money badly used for reconstruction and I hope that the parliamentary committee of inquiry will be launched as soon as possible after the urgent resolution adopted unanimously by this House. Too many of them fled to survive, failing to accept the rare crumbs fallen from the plate of the partition of the city. For the 7th anniversary of the earthquake of the Eagle it is not enough that Guido Bertolaso, who wanted to create the expectation of the Eagle of the highest Italian experts to reassure, continues to confirm to the microphones of SkyTG24 his intention to give up the prescription in the trial Great risks- bis, which sees him accused for manslaughter to the Eagle, but can and must formalize an act of surrender without waiting for October, when the court will say that the prescription has taken place. Among the myriads of disconnected initiatives, it would perhaps be appropriate to identify a common thread, perhaps starting from the revisits of some legal institutions, such as prescription and manslaughter, as Antonietta Centofanti rightly said yesterday. Colleagues, this day must become a great national moment of reflection on security, transparency, participation, correct information and above all honesty and legality. That's the only way it's gonna be real commemoration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u25	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, today's date, 6 April, is tragically engraved in the memory of all the citizens of L'Aquila and Abruzzo. It is in fact the 7th anniversary of the violent earthquake that hit the capital of the Region, with its 309 victims and the devastation of an entire territory and its economic and social fabric. Many young lives have been taken away, with their clear corollary of hopes and dreams, throwing entire families and communities into the deepest despair. It is a pain that has gone through inexorable all these years and that is renewed every 6 April with greater strength and intensity, a deep and uncancellable pain, a living furrow in our collective consciousness of men and women. It is difficult to find the reasons and the strength to move forward and to build, day after day, the conditions necessary to reconnect with daily life and its rites. Thank you, therefore, President, for stopping the work of this House with a heartfelt minute of condolence that is together emotion and memory of the lives broken by that terrible event of 6 April 2009. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u28	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Madam President, senators and senators, seven are the deadly vices, seven are the virtues, seven were the plagues of Egypt, seven are the colors of the rainbow. An alternation of joys and sorrows seems to be linked to this number. Seven are now the years that have passed since that horrible night, which none of us will ever be able to forget. There are still very vivid memories and emotions, the roar, the scream of the ogre, the earth shaking, my daughter crying desperate and asking me what is happening, the toys falling on her, the escape from home, the frantic search for news of relatives and friends. Then the race to Onna - my father's land - from where they began to leak the first news of death and despair, with which we learned, for days, to deal. It seems absurd, it seemed impossible and instead it happened and it's all true. Seven years seems like enough time to forget, to move on, but you can't forget. In many of us that memory, the memory of the 309 broken lives, is still alive. To keep it on contribute seven years of lies, of mystifications, of speculation. We had to deal with the lies of the miracle of the reconstruction of the Berlusconi Government, the efficiency of the facade of Bertolaso, the laughter of the 3.32 hours and the speculations related to the reconstruction. We had to resist the mass deportation of 40,000 people on the coast, while prophesied of a city that would not go beyond the 30,000 residents. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). What a shame! Mr Pezzopane (PD). A prophecy, fortunately, that did not come true, because the eagles returned and fought for their city. We had to deal with the Commission's ruling with great risks, another slap on the memory of our victims, their family members and a city still injured, which is now being mocked by the promises of Bertolaso to the Romans to perform the same miracle as the Eagle. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). It's a memorial. It's not a local election rally. What a shame! [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u29	Senator Malan, please. Senator, you too...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u30	Mr Pezzopane (PD). It hurts to hear those promises. Rather give up the prescription and allow to verify any liability. If we managed to survive all this, it is thanks to the strength and tenacity that we were able to pull out, to see our city and the many municipalities rebuilt. We struggled every day and the results begin to be seen. On the outskirts most of the eagles have returned to the homes of all time and the old town is slowly finding its new great beauty. At the end of the reconstruction we will have one of the most beautiful cities in Europe. We owe it to our people, we owe it to Italy, we owe it to our young people, to those who are no longer there, who have lost their lives that tragic 6 April and to those who are there, because they wanted to return. We owe it to our children, so that they can inherit a welcoming and safe city and to the many young people who continue to want it beautiful. With this spirit we brought tonight the torches of pain and hope. We participated many in the torchlight to remember the 309 innocent victims, until 3:32 pm to mark the names: every name, a ringing of the bell. There was also with us the Government with the Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council De Vincenti, a sign of closeness and affection, and with the Prefect Tronca, who in those days, as head of the fire department, was close to us. Many were the volunteers, even tonight, also this morning to accompany the pain with torches. Don't ask us to forget that night. Don't ask us not to tell it. That night, the days that preceded it, all that happened in these seven years, is not only our history, but an important piece of history of Italy. In many of us, the memory of the 309 innocent victims is very strong. Nothing has been spared us, seven years of mystifications, of cynical exploitations. We had to endure the lies of the Berlusconi government, while they continue to fall apart the famous houses of the miracle, the interested efficiency of Bertolaso, those who laughed at 3.32, the condemnation of De Bernardinis alone, scapegoat of much wider and widespread responsibilities of the Commission great risks and of the summit of civil protection. We have resisted the mass deportation of the people on the coast and we have had to protest in Rome several times, taking the batons and having to resist the distrust of so much of the politics that for years has blocked the reconstruction, not financing adequately and not approving the norms that we asked for. No miracle has arrived, the only miracle accomplished we earthquakeed. If we managed to survive all this it is thanks to the strength and tenacity that we were able to pull out, to see our city and the many municipalities rebuilt. It is thanks to the generosity of thousands of people, associations, local authorities and those who have taken the situation to heart. We fought every day to move on. Now, seven years later, the reconstruction has taken off, thanks to the change of course of the Renzi government. Decree emergencies in 2013 with a billion 200 million to unlock the yards; 6 billion in stability 2015; new norms for the legality and 4 percent for the productive activities pairs to approximately 300 million for the crater. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, what about the weather? Mr Pezzopane (PD). And then the start of the process of setting up the Committee of Inquiry into the earthquake and reconstruction to enter into even the most opaque aspects of the affair. I have also tabled a draft law to set up a Commission of Inquiry into the Commission's work, which I hope will soon be scheduled. The Eagle is in mourning today, but believes in the future. On the outskirts most of the eagles have returned to the homes of all time and the old town is slowly returning to the splendor of the past. At the end of the reconstruction we will have one of the most beautiful cities in Europe. And the over 100 cranes in the old town are a sign of hope on the day of mourning. We're going to rebuild L'Aquila. I promised my daughter and kids you never lie. To rebuild cities and communities, to discover the truth, to obtain justice: this is our national mission. A hug from the Senate to those who are no longer there and to their grieving families. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u33	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I think we have too many commemorations here. Here then the memorial is used as a pretext for personal attacks. [[Protests from the PD desks.]] GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). It's a shame! You must be ashamed! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u34	Senator Giovanardi, I invite you to sit down and not scream.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u35	Senator Malan, we had a memorial and each group chose what to say. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, but there are those who have done so with dignity and those who have done so by exploiting the dead! PRESIDENT. - The debate is That is true of everyone, and I thank you for all the speeches that have been made. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, all I'm saying is that the plagues of Egypt were not 7, but 10 and today they have become 11!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u38	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the Lega Nord Group. You cannot overlook the fact that yesterday a request was made by our Group to convene the Conference of Leaders so that the motion of distrust against the Government was quickly scheduled. Madam President, as you can remember or as I remind myself, it is a practice, when a Parent Company requests that the Conference be convened, that it be convened. It didn't happen yesterday. We have been waiting until now for a word to come from the Presidency, but it has not yet happened. Yesterday we attended the communication by Mr Gentiloni, who reported on the case of the Regeni, when we had requested that in a much more important way we should refer to the whole Libyan issue and to what happened in Brussels. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's not reopen the subject. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, please, I would like to end the argument and then finish. It was all closed in a short time with five-minute speeches per Group. I'm afraid they're trivializing extremely serious things. Our request to convene the group leader is aimed at questioning the motion of no confidence in the government and this cannot be debilitated as a second level argument: it is intolerable. Therefore, I will immediately reject the request to convene the Conference of Leaders. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u39	In this regard, President Grasso said that the Conference of Leaders would be convened in the morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u40	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2298, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Decree-Law of the Government on Banks, which we are about to convert, contains some rules such as those on securitisation which, given the situation we have reached, will be able to help a little without resolving the very serious issue of the deteriorated loans that weigh on the balance sheets of the Italian banking system and lead into the wings of credit activity. And yet, I'm right. There is another much more important and incisive rule, which is the reform of cooperative credit. In this case, too, I have to say that the scheme works. There is, however, also because of the work done by the House of Deputies, a passage that unnecessarily complicates matters and I think it should be illuminated. This step is the so-called way out facilitated for cooperative credit banks with capital of more than 200 million and for others that to these, within sixty days, can be aggregated, through the transfer of the banking company to a SpA, or the sale of the same banking activity to an already existing bank. Why do I say this rule doesn't work? It does not work because it does not obey the logic that inspired the government action so far - and that we have already found in the reform of the popular banks - which tends to increase the size of the banks in such a way as to allow economies of scale and greater managerial efficiency in favor of their consolidation and their ability to credit the economy. In this case, if the way out were taken, we would have a proliferation of microbial banks and, therefore, contrary to the general approach. However, since the rule is wrong, it is very likely that very few cooperative credit banks will take this path, because the decree-law that has been handed over to us by the House provides that in any case a 20% of the net worth will be paid to the state budget. This measure - in my view - is inappropriate, because it is de facto a tax without declaring itself such: it is a payment, not a tax. If we wanted to talk about tax, we would have to define it as a substitute tax to free the indivisible reserves. But since we do not want to free up the indivisible reserves that remain in the cooperative, we must in any case make this payment, which - in my opinion - is not legitimate, because it constitutes discrimination against cooperative enterprises that want to carry out a branch of a company, which is normally done by capital companies. This wrong rule, however, has the positive effect of discouraging BCCs from taking the exit route. You understand that we are in the realm of tortuousness. Why do you discourage them? The whole cooperative credit reform, positive, is based on an analysis of the facts that cannot be accepted, i.e. cooperative credit banks have an average net worth, better than that of the banks SpA - the average means that some do not have it - but, compared to them, they also have a number of deteriorated loans, and among them of suffering, higher and less covered by devaluation funds. Therefore, in the cooperative credit system there is a balance between the greater assets and the smaller funds. Now, if you put a leap of 20% of the assets on those who want to give up banking to a SpA, the assets themselves are seriously weakened; insufficient devaluation funds and weakened assets remain. I'm afraid the government hasn't done - and should have done so - an analysis of the impact of the rule on company accounts. We're talking about banks and not poetry. We have to look at the budgets, and then it would be discovered - for example - that the BCC of Cambiano - whose consultant Nicola Rossi claimed, on the "Corriere della sera" (Corriere of the evening), the paternity of the norm that is proposed to us today - would fall from a slightly lower assets than the average of the current BCCs to a clearly lower threshold indicated by the Bank of Italy in parliamentary hearings such as that below which a cooperative credit bank is considered weak, deserving of relief, of recapitalisation. And not only that: the coverage of deteriorated claims is also far below the thresholds indicated by supervision. I wonder, then, if anyone who has thought of this rule has realized what he is doing. Of course the rule is an option, not an obligation, and so it will be the members of these cooperatives who will reason on whether or not to take this path. In fact, I believe that when the banking business is transferred to the SpA or sold to another bank, two problems will arise, the first of which will be the nature of the remaining cooperative. I have heard so many speeches; I am not a constitutionalist or a jurist and, therefore, I modestly take refuge behind the authority of Paolo Ferro-Luzzi, who was the most competent lawyer in banking matters, now deceased, who in 2000 - on the date, therefore, not suspect of involvement with the present time - explained that cooperative credit banks are not any cooperatives, but are cooperative banking companies, that is, when they no longer have credit activities in their social object, they end up losing their raison d'être. I would like to point this out to my fellow Members who know more about this matter than I do. I do not know if they have that thought. But that's not the main point, let's be realistic. The main point is that if 15% of risk-weighted assets see their assets falling below 12%, when the share indicated by the Bank of Italy is 13%, and if the coverage of the funds of deteriorated loans is less than 30%, a capital increase must be made. Have you seen what the ECB said about the merger between the People's Bank of Milan and the People's Bank? He said that it could be done, however, by increasing the capital by one billion. In this case, therefore, it can be done, but increasing the capital of some tens of millions. At this point the question is as follows: in your opinion, this capital increase will be easy to place on the market at a time when bank branches are given away, when when you offer 20 or 30 bank branches you create a problem to whom should you buy them? Who is making these standards know in what world does he live or pursue vague obedience and thoughts? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. MUCCHETTI (PD). Mr President, I would ask you to allow me to conclude my speech, because this is an analysis that has not even been made in the House and, therefore, the Senate, since it will probably have to vote on a closed-box trust, must have at least a number. We are talking about banks - I repeat - and not civil unions or literature. If we are going to have to make a capital increase that will be difficult to place, we should also establish a value of the bank that is going to propose to the market the capital increase. How do you think this value is determined? It is determined by taking the market references - we are making a SpA, not a charity foundation - and these values, today, on average, for banks much more solid than those we are talking about and with an opening to the world of finance much more tested over time, with a more important reputation, are dealt with on the stock exchange at 50% of the asset value. Why are they dealing with this discount? Because they earn little and, therefore, they are paid on average ten times the profits. I have made an account of the Bank of Cambiano, which is the most sensitive one, so to speak: once it has been transformed into a SpA and paid the taxes properly and no longer as a cooperative, it would have a profit of less than 4 million per year and, therefore, could be worth about 40 million. If you try to place the shares on the market, you must also make a discount. I remember that the value of the current equity of this BCC is 278 million and, therefore, if we wanted to do something right, we should eliminate the way out because it is neither in heaven nor on earth. We should leave it to the cooperatives, who want to become SpA in a transparent way and without these wizards, the possibility of following the classic route, that is, devolve the reserve indivisible to the mutual funds for the promotion of cooperation, and then make an increase of capital, since they have wonderful business, and the market will rush to support them. If there isn't this strength, it's better to be together. Having said that, I believe that I will still vote in favour of this measure, because - as I have just explained - this is wrong, but so wrong that it will not be used for which the general system of cooperative credit reform will remain in place, which is positive. In any case, I think it's fair that it stays with the record that we don't have the ring on our noses here.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u42	We greet the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo \"Giudicarie Estteriori" of Ponte Arche, in the province of Trento. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u43	Madam President, I would like to tell you right away that we do not like this reform, that it leaves us perplexed and worries us. We are concerned because cooperative credit banks are born to serve the territory, small and medium-sized enterprises, craftsmen and farmers. The reform instead obliges the banks to unite, to merge and to federarsi and, therefore, puts at risk the very essence of the cooperative system, intended just as service to the territory and the territory. I am told that this does not take account of the problem of recapitalisation. True, but two subcapitalised cooperative credit banks joining together certainly do not make it a capitalized one. However, capital will have to come from outside and those who arrive will lead holding companies and cooperative credit banks according to principles unrelated to the mutual principles of these banks. Were cooperative credit banks being reformed? Of course they are, because they may be too subject to the constraints of politics and politicians, but nothing has been done from this point of view. It's all the same. Above all, nothing has been done from the point of view of the reform of the supervisory bodies: I am talking of course about Banca d'Italia and Consob. Gentlemen, as long as we have a Bank of Italy controlled by the same banks that it must control, dramatic cases such as that of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca will be repeated, which have burned 16 billion euros of savers without the control bodies moving a finger, obviously in terms of the effectiveness of their control action. On the other hand, there is no talk of reform of the Bank of Italy. And this must not be surprising, because a reform of the Bank of Italy that resolves its conflict of interest would be in the interests of the citizens, but not in the interest of the banking system. And this is a government that intervenes only with measures in favour of the banking system. The gifts made by the government and the majority to the largest banks in our country are no longer counted and I list some (but the list would be very long): we started from the IMU-Bankitalia decree that gave 7.5 billion to the main banks of our country and every year writes a cheque in terms of dividends from 300 to 400 million euros that are wrongly received. They were never perceived in the history of the Italian Republic before this decree-law. And let's not talk about the reduced taxes on capital gain contained in the measure. And the citizens thank you. Then there was the so-called bad bank, i.e. the state guarantee on deteriorated loans. But why not also say a word about the dividends of billions and billions that these banks distribute to their shareholders, before talking about bad bank? And why aren't we talking about bad bank also for bad loans from other important sectors of the economy? Let us think of small and medium-sized enterprises. How many deteriorated loans do small and medium-sized enterprises have the same dignity of intervention on them? Then you reinstated anatocism. Here, anatocism in Italy really missed it. There were people who went to the streets asking the government to re-introduce anatocism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Anatocism was and is prohibited under Article 120 of the single banking text, at least up to this measure. You then shortened the time for the recovery of losses on suffering: it was at eighteen years, then at five and then at only one year. You have made the decree on popular banks, which now allows you to climb them and which has paved over 200,000 savers. You had the courage to propose the loss of the first house for those who obviously entered into a mortgage contract, after only seven late payments, without going to the judge. Of course, the citizens thank you for these extraordinary measures, which are made in the interests of the citizen. You have received, without injury, the bail in and you have even extended, without any public competition, the concession of the Padua-Brescia motorway. And this gives an undue advantage of two billion euros, which is public money that passes from the state's coffers to the private pockets. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So let's go see who these private individuals are: majority shareholder of the Padova-Brescia dealership is a bank. Look at the coincidence! What do we propose? We have put forward our proposals. First of all, we propose that banks should be kept with their specific characteristics. We want to avoid a single model of SpA and we have proposed abolishing the mandatory membership of the holding company by cooperative credit banks. On the other hand, you who support the reform several times have said that it is a project, and therefore a will, that starts from the same world as cooperative credit banks. But then, if they did, they'd stick to it anyway. What, then, is the need to impose the obligation? We have also proposed a parent company which is exclusively owned by cooperative credit banks, replacing the social form SpA in a consortium of cooperative credit banks, because strangely the Government has forgotten to introduce effective barriers to the entry of capital outside the world of cooperation. In conclusion, Madam President, the decree-law on cooperative credit banks is useless for citizens, for customers, for territories, but above all it is useless for the more than 1,230,000 members of these institutions. It risks leading to the desertification of credit to the small business in our country. On the contrary, it is very useful to large banking groups, who want to get their hands on the holding company and especially on the collection of cooperative credit banks. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I therefore conclude with a question, which I have already asked in the Commission, without getting an answer. Since I do not find any other logic and because you have put foundations between policy-makers and politics, in order to make these relations opaque, I ask you: have you received substantial electoral funding, as well as from oil companies, also from the Italian banking system? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Because that, that's all, would really explain everything. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u45	Madam President, it is certainly not easy to speak in a few minutes on such a complex measure, on which we have not been given any opportunity for discussion and amendment. Senator Carraro spoke on the methodological aspects yesterday, and I fully agree with everything he said and the complaint he made about the absurdity of the method used, which, of course, conceals a usefulness from the point of view of the legislative procedure. It is a reform of the banking system, to date, articulated in two decrees and an amendment to the law of stability. Everything has been dealt with in the House: the amendment has been dealt with in 48 hours by the House itself, while the decrees have all been dealt with in the House and have come here for a final vote which presumably - it is useless to hide behind a finger - will be trustworthy, following what has already been announced. I would also like to say to Senator Mucchetti, who expressed concerns about the possibility of offering future increases in capital on the market, which Palazzo Chigi is already providing. Yesterday there was a meeting attended by some distinguished representatives of the banking world (not the ABI, but some managing directors, the Deposit and Loan Fund and of course the Ministry of Economy and Finance), who, obviously concerned about the impossibility of sending sensitive capital increases to the market for some important national banking institutions, are preparing a new legislative intervention, yet another, which would be the fourth at this point. And I hope that this fourth speech will at least be assigned, as they say in legislative terms, to the Senate so that it can be discussed here: at least we could say something about it. This is to denounce how the overall and global intervention of the Government on the banking system is always due to episodic and emotional motivations and not to an overall and coordinated picture. I said at the time that it was the second great opportunity wasted by this Government, compared with a more famous previous Government: the first was that of not having entrusted to a high exponent of culture, as was then Giovanni Gentile, the reform of the school; the second was that of not having entrusted to a high exponent of economic culture, as was Beneduce in 1936, the reform of the Italian banking system. All this has introduced only partial elements, on which one could also have fun to discover some amenities, some pearls, as they say in jargon. I am not talking about the reform of cooperative credit, which has long been dealt with during this brief debate; I am going to deal with the economy in the overall and general sense of the country. These are measures that serve not the country's economy, but only a sector, and are made in the omission of a consideration: banks are not the country's economy, but are a support for its economy E, the country's economy suffers, even banks suffer and cannot be exchanged for entities that can solve the problems of the economy. On the contrary, in this case, wishing to favour only the banks, the real economy is sinking. I take the example of securitisation, which was already tested in 1996-1997 with the story of Banco di Napoli. The securitisation is the extrapolation of doubtful claims and the positioning in a bank that I call the bad guys' bank (not to use those English terms that are not very congenial to me). The securitisation then generated a huge panic and discomfort, especially among the small, very small and medium-sized enterprises of all the Mezzogiorno of Italy. The Banco di Napoli was, then, offered as a gift to someone who was far North of Naples, because purified of 12,000 billion old lire of so-called doubts outcomes. That intervention generated a sure and considerable advantage for those who bought, then, the doubts results, so much so that in 2015 we know that of those doubts outcomes it has already been recovered 85 percent in the form of capital. And, therefore, such doubts were not. The measure in question should have placed stakes in this respect, in defence of the small debtors of banks, small businesses, and not only for the benefit of those who will acquire these packages and speculate on them (and in the coming months we will know who they are). I do a little notation on a pearl of this provision. Article 4, paragraph 1, point (a), states that the claims to be transferred are transferred to the assignee company for an amount not exceeding their book value. That seems absolutely obvious to me! Who would ever buy a doubtful outcome at a value above book value? We had to put a stake on the contrary: we had to say "that it has a value not lower than a certain threshold." In fact, the band, between 0 and 100, in which these credits will be transferred, exposes the debtor to be, immediately after, the judicial officer behind the door of the house without knowing how much his credit has been transferred and what is required for the final definition of the debt. For the very small, small and medium-sized enterprises, small farmers and craftsmen, this means that they will all be included in this measure as debts transferred and subject to the facilitated procedures referred to in the provisions under consideration, also because not even a time stake has been placed at the indications of the suffering of dubious outcomes. Today, as today, banks can include in the so-called bad guys' bank (i.e. among the credits to be sold) any of their credit and debt of third parties, because it falls within their absolute discretion to compose these packages, as happened - I repeat - in 1996 with the case of the Banco di Napoli. So, we are about to witness an incredible speculative phenomenon of banks that make up the packages to be sold and of companies that buy them with the guarantee of the State and buy back at a price that in the law has no stake, because from 0 to 100. In fact, the measure only speaks of a value not exceeding capital and saying such a thing is a banality. We know very often that doubts are not calculated on the actual income capacity of the small entrepreneur, but on the so-called Basel 1, Basel 2, Basel 3 and so on (all nice amenities, good for the European banking and financial market, but certainly not for the socio-economic structure of our country). They will then be included in these packages and transferred; they will find themselves a creditor other than the bank from which they had taken the money, with which they will not be able to negotiate and to which they will be forced to surrender their companies, activities and personal assets as a result of forced transactions, which are also further facilitated. I cite only for flash the absurdities contained in the decree-law in question, including - for example - the tax benefit on the sale of real estate following forced expropriation. This will create, within the domestic real estate market, a very serious vulnus to ordinary transactions. It is clear that, having only a fixed charge of 200 euros in order to be able to pay the purchase tax of a property, those who are normally on the market will refrain from doing so, waiting for the opportunity of an executive real estate procedure, so as to obtain a not indifferent advantage. We are talking about EUR 200 a fixed tax against a value of 7-8 per cent for urban buildings and 17% for agricultural buildings. It is being done - you are doing so, because we will vote against it, all the more so in the event of the question of trust being applied - a measure that is only dimensioned to the interests of the banking sector, which are not those of the entire national economy, but which, on the contrary, should be posterized to them. It is in fact on the entire national economy, the real and real one, that pulls the productivity of the country, on which we should rely in order to have an economic recovery and certainly not on the advantages that we bring to the banking sector, instead penalising the real economy. It is a problem of philosophical approach and is an overall economic philosophy that the Government lacks. There are banks in difficulty and action is taken to save them. I should also like to mention the reference to rating agencies in the measure. So what's the Bank of Italy up to? Could the Bank of Italy not be the certifying body of the quality of these securities, if it is true - certainly it is, because I have no reason to doubt it, having the greatest confidence in the intellectual honesty of Deputy Minister Morando - that these specifications were imposed by the European Union to obtain the green disk? I do not believe that the European Union has forced us to address certain rating agencies and to put this mechanism into law. However, when the rating agencies, as some say, raise their voices, they will shout at the conspiracy because the rating agencies have agreed to penalise the Italian banks. It would have been much more correct to entrust the Bank of Italy with a specific task; so at least it would have done something, since it does not seem to do very well those few remaining tasks that were assigned to it after the European Bank was set up. There is no need for reform by the Bank of Italy, but there is a need for the Bank of Italy to carry out some tasks and this could be one of the specific tasks to be assigned to it. In the overall context it is therefore a missed opportunity to review the regulatory system related to the banking sector (which could be realized with a bill and not with decrees). Episode interventions were generated by emotions and very often punctual crisis conditions. We wonder why this Government and Parliament have completely lost the difference in meaning between lobbying and individual interests. One thing is the lobby, which can also be regulated by law, another is the individual interests that are the basis of all the measures, from the decrees, to the individual amendments, which the government proposes to us and which makes its unsuspecting majority digest. [[Applause from Senator Alicata]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u46	He is registered to speak Senator Marino Mauro Maria. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u47	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a very broad debate in this House, which follows the same broad debate in the Commission. Despite the short time available and despite the fact that the Senate was partially excluded after the deepening of this decree, the comparison was significant. We are going to add another brick to the construction of a large building and there is awareness of this among colleagues. Without interloquire, the first thing I feel like contesting Senator D'Alì is that there is no overall and coordinated picture and that it is the sum of so many episodes. I shall try in my speech to demonstrate the opposite, with a strategic overall view which I think makes a difference in these matters. The construction of this large building is precisely the subject of the reform of the banking system because the debate here has focused very much on the issue of cooperative credit banks, which was the most grievous issue, but let us not forget that we are also talking about guaranteeing the securitisation of suffering - a significant and significant issue which has seen an important confrontation in Europe and also on this I want to return - of the tax regime relating to crisis procedures and collective management of savings. This is the dimension of the measures we are dealing with when we call for the reform of the banking system. Our Premier a few days ago reminded us that 2016 is the year in which Italy must definitively settle its banking issue, which is not as serious as in other countries, but has problematic profiles. We have been working for a few weeks on the ground belly every day to have a solution that is compatible with the rules, that gives tranquility and guarantees to investors and savers and certainty to credit institutions. These are the objectives to which the Government is tending, and we, as Parliament, are trying to make a contribution to this as far as possible. When we talk about the reform of the banking system, we cannot ignore the fact that this is not just an Italian issue, but a European one and the basic issue is that of the European Banking Union. We know that everything comes from the 2007 crisis, which revealed the need to harmonise across the European Union, but above all in the euro area, the regulation of banking activities and the supervision of banking activities, because there was a belief that a misassessment of risks by the banking sector itself could have undermined the financial stability of the Member States. So it comes to June 2012, when there is a change of perspective and the European Council decides to break the vicious circle that exists between banks and sovereign debt. To do this, the Banking Union instrument is used, which is basically based on three pillars. The first is the single supervisory mechanism, which takes off immediately; the second is the single resolution mechanism, which has become operational since 1 January 2016, and the third is that of the single resolution fund, which instead, in the perspectives that are outlined, will have to enter into force in 2023. The meaning of the work that we are trying to do, that wants to have an organic vision, is to address also the third topic in the ascending phase, precisely because we realize that it is closely connected to the other two and has significant repercussions, especially after the entry into force of the transposition of the Bank recovery and resolution directive (BRRD), also on the Italian system. On the one hand, we are doing this to show our attention to the ascending phase and on the other hand to follow up, in real terms, the role that national parliaments are called to play in the process of building European legislation. I want to highlight this because this contrasts exactly with the statement that you are proceeding to commercials or to bits and bits. There is, therefore, a much broader picture. I remain for the whole of the considerations to the report illustrated by Senator Moscardelli and to what Senator Fornaro said, when he specified that it is not the three measures - which are the three mentioned and which have seen us excluded, as the Senate, as Senator Carraro rightly recalled - but that there is a strategic vision of the whole and we are not limited to the sum of so many small acts. I would therefore like to recall what was claimed last year with reference to Decree-Law No 83 of 2015, because, in retracing the overall picture, we cannot lose sight of the background that characterizes the action of the Government and also the contribution offered by Parliament. By enumerating the measures taken in the field of credit by the Government and the majority that support it, today as then I am convinced that the actions directed to banks and financial intermediaries are a fundamental instrument of economic policy, with significant repercussions for the real economy - in particular for the aggregates families and enterprises - but also for the public finances. As regards financial intermediaries, it is not - let me say this, but I have heard this refrain in various interventions - a question of favoring the banks. This is an absolutely reductive and misleading reading: instead, it is a matter of intervening on a nerve sector of the economy, all the more so in a situation of recovery, that is, at a time when the additional resources provided by credit are absolutely strategic for the future. A year ago I thought that in the completely changed context of the Banking Union, negative rates, quantitative easing, the sovereign debt crisis and the weak global recovery, politics had the task of identifying the most important problem junctions, so that credit intermediation would reactivate on the side of households and businesses, increasing the provision of credit. It is never nice to quote, but I have to say that just then we placed a great responsibility on the Italian banks. In fact, I stated that it is now up to all Italian bankers to deserve the effort and promptness of the legislator, in order to support, with innovation and imagination, entrepreneurial risk and challenge of the future, the recovery of the economy. I supported this because we denounced and stressed that, in contrast to what would have been desirable, some Italian banks had used the resources at very low cost of the targeted long term refinancing operation (T-LTRO), to return the previously absorbed financing lines to the ECB at a cost higher than those of the LTROs. It went from 0.25 to 0.05 but the ratio was always 1 to 5. And we pointed out those limitations of the system by saying that, now that we had created the conditions for this to no longer happen, and therefore calling the banks to their responsibilities, they wanted there to be a contribution to that recovery that we find absolutely fundamental for the work we are doing. At the same time, I acknowledged that the Government had passed the Hercules columns of a narrow self-referential basin, such as that of the banking sector, with the reform of the popular banks. But to this innovation is added today the new structure of the cooperative credit galaxy. I am personally satisfied with the text accepted by the House of Deputies, as the Federcasse project has been confirmed. Alternatives to membership of the BCC group are guaranteed, but without distorting the principles of cooperation. Why am I saying I'm happy? Let me remind you with a little pride that the reform project has been followed by the Finance Committee from the outset. It was the subject of a seminar held here in the Senate with the approval of the Chamber Commission and presents content of general interest. Moreover, it was precisely the cooperative credit banks that (within the cognitive survey on the banking system that allowed to have a positive picture of what was, and is, the banking system in Italy), mindful of what had happened, on the one hand to the popular banks, repeatedly urged to self-form with a solicitation, falling into thin air, that went from the Bank of Italy to the Government, and also of the system used by the foundations, which instead had identified, together with the Ministry of Economy, a way to find a meaningful protocol of understanding, had triggered a process of self-form and had decided to discuss this process with the Parliament. The fundamental elements that emerged in that seminar are absolutely all found in the Decree-Law presented to our attention. Cooperative credit is an element of particularity and there has been talk, especially in the debate in the Commission, of financial biodiversity, which needs to be supported at a time of rapid change. It is not done with public resources, but through a legal scaffolding that responds to the need for systemic supervision and safeguards the individual economic realities close to the territory, puts services and experiences into common factor and is a strong response of the political system. The perspective is changed but it is certainly an answer to the times we live. It is the best answer to some of the criticisms I have heard here. But I want to use not my words, but what Maurizio Gardini, President of Confcooperative, said yesterday: "We could not accept" - he explained - "the possibility of transforming the cooperatives into SpA by freeing up the reserves and distributing them: this was in fact prevented. The famous way out that is granted to BCCs who do not want to join the single group will be to leave the reserves indivisible in the parent company, and confer the banking activity in a spa upon payment of a tax. According to Gardini, this saves the principles, and offers the possibility to those who do not want to be in the single group to find a new solution; but I think that there will be very few BCCs that will not join the single group, because the times are difficult and require a single group that acts as an umbrella and give protection. He thus expresses an absolutely positive view of the work that has been done. The debate on popular banks and cooperative credit certainly raises concerns about the fate of Italian companies, about the entry of foreign investors or otherwise unrelated to Italian natural logics and economic interests. In a static condition of satisfactory inheritance, such insistence would not have been justified. On the contrary, after the recession, the whole banking and financial system has reoriented and is reorganizing to varying rules but with heavy budgets and private capital increases that, overall, amount to about 50 billion. The junction of these years is therefore truly crucial. The Government considered it important to overcome legal constraints through which a certain type of credit activity had taken shape and developed. This will not be the case in the future: it is now up to the banker to return to his job, knowing that market players are stronger, that systemic supervision is in the field and that the protection of savings no longer comes to cover with public finances the totality of investors but only depositaries. The normative innovations of the decree in question are inserted in a conjuncture that therefore marks an improvement of the banking activity thanks to the overcoming of the technical condition of the long recession and thanks to the confirmation, although between difficulties of mainly international origin, of a context of increase of the gross domestic product evidenced from the data supplied yesterday from the ISTAT. In 2015, in fact, there were signs of recovery in Italy and for the banks the development of new loans was particularly lively in the mortgage sector, where there was a substantial doubling of overall flows to households (with just over 30% of surrogate operations), and it was also promising in the business sector, where new jobs increased by 11.6 percent on an annual basis. Thanks to the continuation of these dynamics in the course of most of the past year, towards the end of 2015 the total stock of loans outstanding to the economy (including the public administration) has stopped contracting and has recorded slightly positive values: these are facts. We all know, however, that the relative systemic weight of the deteriorated loans and provisions made by the banks puts in doubt the capacity to strengthen economic growth, as also denounced in the country report on Italy, made by the European Union. It is in the light of such considerations that we must come back to all the measures put in place, because only in this way can we realize the type of action that is taking place with this latter brick (as I had previously defined): the sale of the shares of Banca d'Italia, the reform of the popular banks, the rules on capital requirements, the scaffolding of the European supervision, the self-reform of the system of cooperative banks, the system of deductibility of losses on loans, the measures of acceleration of the recovery of the credits and, last, the programs of financing of the ECB and the interventions of purchase of public securities, even held by banks, of the same authority of Frankfurt. Last year's decree-law drastically reduced the period of deductibility of credit losses. 11:08 a.m. (Marino Mauro Maria follows). On the other hand, the issue of non-performing loans is addressed after a long European comparison of compatibility with the State aid framework on instruments in the field. The members of the Commission, who followed the whole issue through a cognitive survey, observed the path with particular attention. It has recently been authoritatively argued that such a comparison could be conducted more decisively; at the same time, it is clear to everyone that the relative weight of the stock and the flow of impaired loans to banks cannot be dealt with by ordinary and long-term instruments. In December 2015, the outstanding loans, i.e. those not adjusted by the banks, amounted to not 202 billion but 84 billion, although it should be pointed out that in 2007, at the beginning of the crisis, they were 15 billion. The percentage of jobs today is 4.6 percent, while it was 0.8% in 2007. The decree therefore intervenes in a perspective of economic policy: the liquidity made available by the ECB does not turn into new credit; the balance sheets of banks are heavily weighed down by losses and deteriorated loans; systemic stability measures require provisions on robust loans with expensive quality capital and collateral. Hence the urgent need to activate the market for securitisation securities with underlying bank claims. On this point, the House's novelty in extending to financial intermediaries the possibility of securitisation of loans secured by the State guarantee appears relevant with a view to strengthening the market for securitisation securities. There is no doubt, therefore, that the guarantee of the State, within the limits of the decree-law (limits deriving from the negotiation with the European Union), seems to operate with effectiveness and incisiveness (perhaps not that desired but still significant), and is an additional instrument to the market. I think that some of the new elements of recent months still require a little more thought. Investors quickly abandoned their positions on listed banks by imagining new structural weaknesses and systemic fragility, which did not appear justified, especially in the light of the photograph we had taken on the Italian banking system. At a totally different level, i.e. that of Italian customers and savers, the same distrust has spread in banks and financial institutions, after the crisis of the four banks - and the partial application of the internal rescue mechanism - also because of journalistic information too often superficial if not terrorist. Let me say, with a clear voice, that things are not as they are painted: we have a healthy Italian banking system with some critical issues and we are following with particular attention, especially in the conversation with the European Union, all the issues that are directly reverberating and that we do not passively accept as dropped from above. We must work to achieve a different relationship, even a different focus on European issues, first of all by paying attention to the upward phase in order to try to follow the processes and not suffer them with recriminating logics that are of no use. I conclude with a literary quotation, which is almost a duty not to expire in mere technicalism. The most appropriate quotation seems to me to be the one of the farm of Orwell's animals, which may seem absolutely obvious. I then try to reaffirm the concept expressed by the well-known Indo-British writer, reformulating it and updating it in the light of the considerations I made at the beginning of my speech, conscious of my limitations and without absolutely wanting to compete with him, concluding that only an idea of Europe based on certain rights for all will allow the overcoming of a concept of Europe based on duties only for some, because in the difficult balance between rights and duties we hope that all States are equal and there is no one more equal than others. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u48	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u49	Mr President, as Mr Mauro Maria Marino has just mentioned, the debate has been wide-ranging, although it has been held in the short time available. What we find are actually critical of the merit of the measure, but they do not grasp the essential element of a series of interventions that strengthen the entire banking system; interventions like this of the BCCs that incorporates the guidelines elaborated by the world of cooperative credit banks and that moves within the two fundamental coordinates: the strengthening of the system, on the one hand overcoming fragmentation, fragmentation and therefore structural weakness; on the other hand, maintaining the aims of cooperative credit. So I repeat that, precisely to ensure the important role of the BCC in financing the real economy due to their proximity to small and medium-sized enterprises (numbers have been mentioned), this change is necessary. I believe, therefore, that from this point of view, today we are taking another important step on a topic such as that of the banking system which - I remember - is the only channel that feeds our economy, our business system. Let us mark a further step forward in order to be able to better address the issues that we are still facing, namely the match of deteriorated loans, which today can be seen and addressed in a framework that is certainly more stable and stronger, also taking into account the current difficulty of finding capital in a very difficult market environment. From this point of view, the capitalisation and use of private and non-public resources to strengthen the system is another element in favour. That is why I very much welcome the measure we are about to adopt.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u50	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u51	Mr President, first of all I would like to make a comment on the method, namely the choice of proceeding in this matter by decree-law. Of course, it was an objectionable choice - of course - and it is not surprising that it was a choice that was subject to numerous critical assessments during this debate too. I would simply like to try to say that it was not, however, a non-reasonable choice that has some rational basis. AIROLA (M5S). Some rational foundation, holy words! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, be good. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I wonder why it's necessary to ruin the attempts to argue seriously. It must be a disease. AIROLA (M5S). Because there is no more debate in this Parliament! Because you put one trust behind the other! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u52	Senator Airola, please, we're in response and the government has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u53	Please, Deputy Minister Morando. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I was saying that the rational basis of this choice lies in the fact that, in my opinion, all three fundamental rules that make up this decree (the reform of cooperative credit banks, the state guarantee on securitisation that have as underlying deteriorated loans and sufferings and finally - nobody has mentioned it but it is an absolutely important rule - tax rules on contributions received as a liberality by subjects in competition procedure) and that constitute its hinges are the result of a very long work (someone said, in my opinion, with some basis, too long work) of preparation both at national (reform of cooperative credit banks) and at European level (the other two fundamental choices). Thus, as soon as the agreements on each of these points have been defined, both with the parties we will call of an economic and social nature and with the institutional entities (especially the Community bodies), it has chosen to adopt the solutions defined by decree-law in order to speed up the process of entry into force of this set of rules of particular importance. In fact, there was an urgent need to strengthen the system of cooperative credit banks, also in order to promote the capital consolidation of the banks themselves and, in particular, of those in difficulty. I listened to a speech in which it was said that there are only twenty people in difficulty. Assuming it's true, "only twenty"? "Only"? I'm amazed! In my opinion, the number of cooperative credit banks which have serious difficulties is lower but in any case there is a strong need for consolidation and strengthening to which the solution contained in the decree seeks to give an answer. Just as it had become urgent, after almost a year of comparison and negotiation in Europe, the solution to put a state guarantee on securitisations that have as underlying banking suffering and deteriorated loans, without incurring - this has been the node - in an infringement procedure for improper state aid. As soon as we have defined the European solution, we have chosen to act by decree-law, because we must immediately start the process that will allow a significant share of these sufferings to be placed on the market on more attractive conditions. We must know, I repeat, that there is a reason for particular weakness. Our banking system has the profiles and characteristics that have been recalled here. It is not true that this is the weakest banking system in Europe, but the opposite is tending to be true. We didn't have to put taxpayers' money into strengthening the system. These are all unfounded statements. However, we are a country in which we have experienced a very long recession over time, so we lost between 2008 and 2014, 9 points of gross domestic product and 10 points of average income per capita. It is quite clear that companies working for the internal market have had to deal with a market which has been dramatically narrowing. So those companies that turned to the banks for funding, in particular to these banks and those that we discussed most on the ground, got into trouble because of the crisis. Suffering has literally exploded (data have now been mentioned by the rapporteur and President of the 6th Commission Mauro Maria Marino). It is clear then that if we want to ensure that the European Central Bank's ultra-expanding monetary policy stance is passed on to the real economy, producing more investment and more jobs, we must try to tackle the issue of suffering. The issue of banking suffering is addressed through many initiatives, but one of them is the construction, even in Italy, of a market of banking suffering that is not there. The State guarantee can provide a stimulus for a segment of this market to be born and formed. To do what? To solve the problems of the banks because we are abstractly children of the interests of the banks? Those who want to support this thesis do so, but the opposite is evident. We need to relaunch the Italian economy and get out of credit crunch. In order to get out of the credit crunch we must reduce the suffering in such a way that the banks have the necessary resources to return to do their job, that is to return to credit to the enterprises, because without credit there is no economic recovery. That is why we have urgently adopted by decree-law the provision relating to guarantees. During the discussion at the Senate of this bill I said from the beginning on behalf of the Government that our orientation - which I confirmed and confirmed - about this decree was to obtain from the Senate the necessary consent to confirm the text that came out of the House, not only because doing the opposite and making necessary a third reading would put at risk the definitive conversion of this decree (and there is really no need for it), how much and especially because we consider that the solutions adopted to the House positively resolve the two fundamental questions that in a critical sense have been proposed on the original text of the decree. In other words, we consider that the corrections made by the House of Deputies on these two points are satisfactory. The two points that had been raised critically are the so-called way out (it can also be said in Italian) for cooperative credit banks that do not intend to join a cooperative national banking group and a weakness in the recognition of territorial peculiarities, experience and nature of cooperative credit banks. These were the two fundamental defects in the text of the decree-law. Before arriving, and concluding quickly, let me make a general observation to these two points. Certainly on the way out there has been a great debate and Parliament has intervened radically amending the original text of the decree, but it is a mistake in my view to concentrate so obsessively on the way out, making the sense - excuse the pun - of the way in, that is, the solution represented by the constitution of the large banking group or the large cooperative banking groups. This is the solution through which individual cooperative credit banks confirm their nature as banks inspired by the principle of mutuality, confirm their nature as banks particularly rooted in specific portions of territory, but connect and aggregate nationally to address problems, starting from capital endowments, which can be addressed in a key of greater aggregation. Now, I am talking about national cooperative banking groups, not necessarily as a group, because those who know the size of the net assets of the cooperative credit banks movement know that the limit we set does not necessarily describe the legal obligation to set up a single group. Of course, it is clear that other things are tending towards the widest possible aggregation. I confirm that the orientation of the Government, consistent in this sense with that of Federcasse and the movement of cooperative credit banks, is in favour of the wider aggregation, with the objective of a single aggregation, but of course in a context in which this constraint cannot be imposed by law. If we could, for once, discuss among ourselves without necessarily saying that those who do not share our opinion are characterized by ignorance and do not know what they are doing, perhaps we would take a step in the right direction. I do not say that the critics do not know what they say; they know what they say and they make criticisms that deserve to be discussed. However, we have raised this specific problem: if we place (as we have done) a high minimum threshold for the establishment of the large cooperative group (let's call it so), with the horizon in the political options (but not in the legal constraint) that constitutes even one, can we ban and remove a way out or condition it exclusively to the total devolution of the reserves of cooperative credit banks through what is necessary by the law on cooperation (not on cooperative credit banks)? The cooperative that melts is that subject that must by law devolve all the reserves to the mutual fund. We then thought that the solution of the single group by law, that is, imposed by the bond of the law, was an impossible solution. For this reason we have tended to keep the thresholds very high, in particular the threshold of the billion, in a context in which it was necessary to find a way out. I recognise that the way out that the Government had identified in the original text was a wrong solution; we recognized it openly. Perhaps this element should be considered, because it was not so wrong with specific reference to cooperative credit banks, but it was a solution that called into question a fundamental principle of the cooperative movement as a whole: the cooperative can dissolve it, if you want, and you can turn it into a SpA, but, please, the reserves that are partly significant are the result of the tax concessions that the State recognizes sacrosanctly, in application of the Constitution, to cooperatives devote it to the mutual fund. 11:30 a.m. (Following Morando). The risk that this precedent of cooperative credit banks, which had its own justification, would attract the whole movement of cooperation has led us to consider other solutions. The solution we have presented in this regard, discussed in the House and approved, is satisfactory in our view, because it does not eliminate the freeing of reserves. The cooperative remains cooperative and holds its reserves until it decides to dissolve; at that point, the reserves will be donated to the mutual fund. If it does not intend to join the large cooperative group and has the size provided by the norm (200 million euros of equity) this cooperative can choose, remaining cooperative (then we will see what it will have to do to remain so, and this in order to respond to the topic posed by Senator Mucchetti), the transfer of branch of company to a SpA that exists or that it is specially built in a very limited period of time (because it must be constituted the large group of cooperative credit and we cannot give much time for this decision). This solution provides for the maintenance of a deposit - as it has been called in the text - of 20% not of the reserves or of the capital (as has been said), but of the net worth. Why have we maintained this rule? It is an objectionable choice, of course, but it is a choice which, on the one hand, tends to favor the process of broad aggregation. I hope I do not have to insist much on the subject: there is no insipience, in my opinion; there is simply an assessment, because the broad aggregation is in the prevailing interest, so let us try to push in this direction. On the other hand, at the same time, we are making an operation of effective possibilities to go the way out, allowing the banking institution to remain cooperative. And since the institute, in order to accumulate those reserves, had tax advantages, when it makes a transfer of business branch to a SpA something has to return that advantage. That's why it's a deposit and not a general tax. Of course the number could be discussed (20 or 15 percent): this is even obvious. I do not know whether it will be one or two or all fourteen cooperative credit banks that will choose this path. In any case, there are at most fourteen cooperative credit banks that can make this choice, possibly each of them dragging some of the others. I foresee, as many have said, that there will be few, but this way out was absolutely necessary to ensure that, on the one hand, there was all the public intervention, all the regulation favorable to an orientation of aggregation at the highest level, without denying, on the other hand, that, even if paying an important price, it was possible to pursue some alternative solution. From this point of view, in my view, the solution we have found, therefore, has its own logic. And it has its own logic - I want to tell Senator Molinari - also the hypothesis of the deposit of 20% of the net worth. I finish on the second point and on the second criticality. In the original rule there was not sufficient recognition of the territorial peculiarities of the cooperative credit banks movement. There was no such recognition for that component of the cooperative credit banks movement that has the most extraordinary peculiarities: Bolzano and, in some respects not identical, Trento. We have, therefore, first of all - I want to say clearly - recognized that this peculiarity had to be reintroduced in the norm and we have fully affirmed that the cooperative credit banks of the Province of Bolzano (the Raiffeisen) and those of the Province of Trento had to be able to contribute to the achievement of the general objectives of this decree-law, but according to their peculiarities: autonomy of the solution, therefore, for the Province of Bolzano and for the Province of Trento. On the latter, however, I would like to add one thing: if the cooperative credit banks of the Province of Trento decide to use what this norm provides, then they will have to make a detachment operation of those cooperative credit banks that do not operate in the Province of Trento, otherwise they will have to make other choices: they will be able to make a subgroup or other things, but certainly not use the norm as it is, which makes explicit reference to the banks that have headquarters and operate in the Province in question. For Bolzano it is so, for Trento today it is not so. Of course, there was the problem of going further. Bolzano and Trento have peculiarities, but they are present, even if not so marked, also in other realities. Here we have adopted a solution which, in my opinion, is painful to underestimate. We have established that cooperative credit banks of a certain territorial entity that consider it, may form a sub-group in the form of public limited liability companies in the Region such or such other, for example, or in the portion of such or such a country, and as a sub-group (i.e. as a public limited liability company) join the national group. This is not a minor, secondary innovation to be underestimated and not to talk about, as has been done here. This is a solution that, while recognizing that in the rest of the country there are no specificities of Raiffeisen and the banks of cooperative credit Trentino, contemplates the existence of peculiarities that deserve to be recognized (and in fact they are recognized). It is for this reason that the Government, with absolute tranquility, has been oriented towards defending in the Senate a text which, in our opinion, Parliament has radically changed on points that were critical and that today are, at least, a little less so. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u54	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students, the students and the teachers of the "Platen" Gymnasium in Ansbach, Germany, and those of the Technical Institute "G.B. Carducci-G. Galilei of Fermo, who are following our works from the stands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u55	He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so. [[Ironic applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] AIROLA (M5S). The Minister for Relations with Banks!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of trust in the adoption of the single article of bill No 2298 of conversion of Decree-Law No 18 of 14 February 2016 in the text approved by the House of Deputies. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u57	The Presidency takes note of the issue of trust. I therefore call on the Conference of Group Leaders to organise the debate and suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.38 a.m. and resumed at 12.06 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u58	The session is resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders has organised work on the question of trust raised by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law for the reform of cooperative credit banks, in the text approved by the House of Deputies. In order to allow the call to begin at 5 p.m., it was decided that today's sitting will be unique. The discussion on confidence, for which an hour and ten minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups, will begin at 2 p.m. The explanations of vote will follow. At the end of the vote of confidence, the Conference of Leaders shall be convened. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.07 a.m. and resumed at 4 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 5 April 2016 Madam President, I inform you that the President of the Republic, with his own decree adopted today on my proposal, has accepted the resignation resigned by Dr Federica GUIDI from the post of Minister of Economic Development. By the same decree, the President of the Republic gave me the task of managing the aforementioned Dicastery as an interim measure. F. to Matteo Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u60	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u61	Madam President, speaking of confidence in a measure, there is no doubt that we must ask ourselves whether this Government still deserves confidence or not. We, colleagues in this House, seem almost ridiculous to have to talk about confidence in a partial and sectoral measure, when we know that there are two motions of mistrust about the government in general and that, if those were passed, it would no longer make sense to talk about confidence in a measure. Having to talk about the measure, however, we should also ask ourselves where this government is taking us. We don't have any members of the government in this House right now. I am not sorry at all, Madam President. Some colleagues might give up speaking until some members of the government were willing to listen. But, just as I will say, the lack of seriousness of the President of the Council and of the Ministers who make up the Government is apparent in this absence. The trouble is that the whole country is experiencing this discomfort and neckline, with a government that seemed to have given confidence and want to try new ways. Our country's largest daily newspaper, the evening Corriere, believed in this government and believed in Renzi. In today's edition, Galli della Loggia's editorial begins with these words: There was a Renzi we liked. We might not even read everything else, because there was a Renzi we liked.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u62	I'd like to interrupt you, Senator Divine. It seemed like the government was there, but since it's not there, I'd like to check it out and then give it back to you. That is not necessary, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I know you said that, but to be fair, I'd like to check it out. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 2.30 p.m. and resumed at 2.04 p.m.) Now that the government is present, I give you back the word, Senator Divine, and we start again from the beginning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u63	Madam President, thank you, but, as I repeat, it was not a matter of absolute importance. In the text, which is quite punctual, of the editorial of the "Corriere della sera" today, perhaps the most important question is what Galli della Loggia asks: was it left? Yes - he replies - it was. I'll stop, or else I'll do what the reporters should do in the morning, I'll read the news. "It was left-wing" means that it carried forward themes, perspectives and solutions that the left felt as almost exclusive. If I have to think about the key word that defines the left in history, it is participation. Between centralism, man alone in command and the participatory democratic system, the left has always planted stakes: the left means widening the audience of decisions, making them more acceptable, creating the system that did, then, emerge what was called the common good, that everyone must go to seek, compose, recompose and fix it. Well, Renzi gets to the government and it seems that "participation" word no longer exists. We have little interest in the fact that there are bodies, more or less representative, which extend the audience of participation, but we cannot ignore institutional participation. In the institutional reform Renzi has substantially removed the legislative power of the Regions: there is no longer the shared legislative power. Of that of our Regions, those with special statutes, which cannot touch because we have a little more pregnant safeguard - we have allowed ourselves to go to remove bricks, small pieces even if it is clear that there is a much more strenuous defense by the Autonomous Provinces and the Regions with special Statute. But, on the way back to Parliament, Parliament does not count for anything anymore. If we think about what will happen with the next electoral reform, this Parliament and, in particular, the Senate are wiped out. The Senate will no longer participate, will no longer give confidence, will no longer give political direction, will no longer vote on the state budget. An elected Parliament is no longer called upon to speak at the hands of a Government whose President of the Council is not even an elected one. Here you can open scenarios for lawyers and lovers of the political narrative of this country: is it possible for an unelected government to check out and - at this point - off-game an elected Parliament (for good or bad, with good law or bad law)? Why do I say that? Because in trust the numbers are important and when a government comes and says: "I trust you" means: I'm not interested in knowing your opinion. I am not interested in your participation in the packaging of the legislation and the measure that is being discussed. Take it or leave it. In a historical moment that leaves dark areas and in which there are no alternatives to this Government, since the left has only one leader and does not come to the head of it, and the center-right has never been so frayed, to ask the question of trust knows only of blackmail: because you will not be able to do anything else and to govern without me, let us not break the soul here, let me vote this confidence otherwise each of you - man or woman who is - is lost, because, if you send me home, I, Matteo Renzi, party secretary, will decide who will come back here and who will not, because I have already promoted the adoption of a law that will not allow voters to choose their representatives. I will be the one to choose them and the party secretariat will impose who to vote, because two thirds of the members of the Chamber of Deputies will not be elected or chosen, but already predetermined. I now turn to the numbers, which are no small matter. I remember when the parliamentarians of the left literally stood on the benches because the Berlusconi Government raised the question of confidence in some measures. Trust in certain matters is the power and prerogative of every Executive. Well, out of a total of more than 270 measures brought to the House, the Berlusconi Government has put confidence in 16%. As for the Renzi Government, the data available to me change from month to month, so the February figure could be different from that of March and tomorrow would change again, but out of a total of 130 measures, the percentage of those on which he placed the trust varies between 31 and 34 percent. This means that the Government has put confidence in one out of three measures, thus preventing dialogue and not substantially allowing discussion. There is more, because as many as 47 of the measures on which the Renzi Government put trust are of government initiative and the bill of parliamentary initiative are almost irrelevant. The government has the arrogance to adopt a temporary executive decree, to come to the Chamber, to trust and say: I don't want to waste so much time, so take it or leave it. If we go back to the previous governments, the Letta Government put the question of trust on only ten draft laws of government initiative and the much-distracted Monti, who asked for confidence, never put the trust on draft laws of government initiative. We are witnessing a frightening escalation of concentration of powers. At a delicate stage in the country, you could also decide to recognize the full powers of the government, but the government should come to the Chamber to ask for them and get them legitimately. It would be a sort of suspension of the Constitution. It could be said that the political and economic moment, the crisis and the situation of international security put the Government in front of choices such as to impose the momentary provision of the democratic system and the recognition to the Executive of the totality of the powers, until it comes out of the emergency. Mussolini asked for full powers and the Parliament then granted them, and I believe that this House is well aware of the history of Italy and that it must not be repeated. But getting full powers without ever asking for them is of absolute gravity. Renzi asked for confidence, so no one could interfere, on Italicum, on the jobs act, that is, on the reform of the work that the left has tried to hinder, on the reform of the public administration and also on the law of stability of 2015, of which I think some marachella has emerged in these days, regarding relatives or not relatives that, with some amendments, have obtained benefits. But we're not here to be a scandal. If we think that the Regions have taken them out of the way, the Senate will no longer count because of the reform of the Senate - which will have to be approved but, at this point, it is an orpellar and final phase - and the House will be in the hands only of a party, which will express a single-colored Government, which will then express, by cascade, all the high offices of control and government, including the President of the Republic, we have understood that cul de sac we have entered. Now he doesn't get out of this with the smart guys. I am referring to the EUR 80, given before an election with the captatio benevolentiae of that sector which earns less than a certain amount, which is also good, but given at a certain time have only a populistic and propagandistic flavor as well as the EUR 500 given to those who turn the years this year. And who made them last year or will make them another year, since it's a one-off, what's his fault? We understand very well that this is an electoral year for which we think of some maneuver, but we cannot go on smart and, above all, we cannot leave all these things in the hands of a government. The greats of history had coined a modus operandi that was then scratched, as some writer reported well. You can be smart, but things don't last forever; you can fool a few people for a long time or you can fool a lot of people for a short time, but you can't fool a lot of people for a long time. Today the Corriere of the evening decrees it, but I think this Assembly can decree it too: this government, in our opinion, has arrived at the end of the race. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u66	AIROLA (M5S). President. - The next item is the report (Doc. It should have been a very short sitting because, among other things, the government has not yet set the date. I know 11 should be the last date, but why don't we just turn them off? Otherwise, let's face it, it's useless to be here!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u67	You're absolutely right. We immediately inform you that all the Commissions are offended, as set out in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. SCIBONA (M5S). There are joint Chamber and Senate hearings. [[Senator Cuomo's comments.]] I understand, but the moment there is trust, the senator is right to say that the Commissions must be disconcerted. He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u68	Madam President, the explanation of vote on the urgent measures concerning the reform of cooperative credit banks, the guarantee of the securitisation of suffering, the tax regime relating to crisis procedures and the collective management of savings will be made by my colleague Eva Longo. It will be you, because you are an authoritative member of the 6th Commission and Vice President, who will explain our vote better than I, who will obviously be in favour of converting this decree-law into law. I would like to draw your attention, Madam President, to an issue which I believe is both merit and substance, concerning the issue of trust, an issue which has already emerged at the Conference of the Leaders. Having been present, Madam President, you will recall that the motions of mistrust presented by certain political groups should also have been scheduled at the Conference of the Leaders. Well, it was not possible to decide the date because, according to some group leaders (in particular I remember Senator Mario Ferrara, president of the LAG Group), the question of trust on the measure under consideration was not possible to plan a vote of distrust in the next few days until the outcome of the vote of confidence that will take place today on the measure that, as I said, we share and believe necessary. The same statements on the order of business of some Members in this House show the need for this branch of Parliament to work on the measures to bring them to an end and for the Commissions to work, while we know that every time the question of trust or a motion of mistrust is discussed, the work of this branch of Parliament is blocked, it is not going ahead and we are not able to produce what is necessary, in the right time. Today communications no longer travel with horse-drawn carriages, but through computer tools and you have to be ready enough. Europe does not ask for this, also because Europe would like to keep us in Serie B or in the amateur group, as it has always tried to do for twenty years and more to this side, when it has contributed to those media-judicial coups, which have gradually replaced legitimate governments with other governments, founded on demagogy and false populism. As I said, Madam President, Senator Mario Ferrara's speech at the Conference of Leaders reminded me that according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Senate today the vote of confidence cancels any possibility for the Senate to intervene again on a motion of distrust, because if today is given confidence, everything that has been delivered before today and that tends to distrust the Government cannot be examined, because the Government cannot ask for 200 trusts. If anything, after this vote of confidence, the groups that considered it necessary will have to re-submit their motions of distrust, because it is not possible to promote confidence or preventative defiance. Parliament will speak today and decide whether this Government should go home or whether it is legitimate because we are going to vote for this Government today or not. It is therefore not possible, as was decided at the Conference of Leaders, to reconvene the Conference at the end of a vote of confidence, in order to identify the time and the day on which to vote again on trust: it seems to me ridiculous and contrary to the Constitution and our Regulations. For this reason, our Group believes that with this vote of confidence or distrust the Government will be legitimized or not legitimized, on the basis of Article 94 of the Constitution. Madam President, I wanted to speak on the question of trust, because on the merits of the decree-law it will be Mrs Eva Longo who will express the reasons for our vote, which will already be announced in favour of the conversion of the decree-law, because, as I said, we need to move forward. But I would like the matter that I raised, Madam President, to be brought to the attention of the President of the Senate. We, as a group, are aware and aware of the fact that the productivity of this branch of Parliament and our duty to participate in the work of the House and the Commission, that we cannot continue to block the work for a game of tennis between trust and mistrust. The trusts that are placed are a record, but they are an extraordinary record also the challenges that are asked: for statistics, I believe that we are now at 14, between individual and governmental challenges, between Chamber and Senate. We believe it is necessary to work and continue to carry on the agenda, the programme. We have important laws in the Commission that must come to this House and we cannot see the work of an institution that, at this moment, with bicameralism, is important continuously blocked. Our Group believes that constitutional reform is necessary, that bicameralism must now be overcome and that a single House is needed that, of course, has the opportunity to legislate instantly, ready, adapted to the times and to be competitive with Europe and the globalised economic world. We have reduced our powers, if God wills, at least on health, since today Canton tells us that it is precisely in that sector that particular and corrupt situations are being perpetrated. We therefore consider it positive to be able to remove these competences from the Regions and bring them back to the central level, reducing the power of the Regions which is what has increased public debt and bad politics in Italy. Perhaps it was better to close the Regions and leave the Provinces. Perhaps it would have been healthier and more correct. The other countries in Europe are also reducing their regions and their Länder, even by halving them, while it is incomprehensible how in Italy there are regions with 300,000 inhabitants and regions with 11,000. The disproportion is before everyone's eyes. There's no balance. These are political considerations. As long as this is the Constitution we respect it and cannot continue to hear that there is a President of the Council who is not legitimate. The Constitution legitimizes it: once it has been appointed by the President of the Republic and trusted by the two branches of Parliament, it is the President of the Council, who must respond to the two Chambers and certainly not to a politicized judiciary. As we know, according to Article 101 of our Constitution, magistrates are subject only to the law and laws that Parliament does and know and see that simple civil servants, salaried, allow themselves to interface and interact with those who are not investigated, makes some sense. There is no point in the National Association of Judges defending itself with a bolt, throwing the ball in the gallery. Only in Italy does a judge hear or hear a minister, it does not happen anywhere else in the world. On the other hand, Madam President, in Italy we also had Presidents of the Republic who were not parliamentarians and despite this represented the unity of the nation and presided over the MSC. In short, we must understand ourselves: we cannot respect or flag the Constitution every other day. Consistently, we believe it to be valid until the confirmed referendum, until, that is, after the House of Deputies has approved, at the last reading, the constitutional changes, the sovereign people have modified this Constitution or not. Until this happens, this is the Constitution that our constituent Fathers handed down to us, the Constitution that we want to respect and that we ask you - and of course President Grasso - to be respected. With today's vote of confidence any other confidence is closed, because this is a Parliament that must work and still work, not play ping pong or tennis, throwing the ball once of confidence and the other of distrust. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u69	Senator Berger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u70	Madam President, I take note of the reality that the question of trust in the cooperative credit decree-law is being raised. I share this, Mr Vice-Minister, because that of the banking system and cooperative credit is a subject that is particularly dear to the citizens, businesses and our social and economic fabric. Above all, it is now, in the great phase of transformation that we are going through, in which there is great attention so that the Italian one is a stable system, that is, able to guarantee fully the currentists and the investors and to stimulate and support in a smart way the world of the enterprises. I come from a land where cooperative credit has always been a valuable tool at the service of the population, the economy, the territory and its growth. However, this decree-law, at least in its original version, risked losing this function. For this reason, I would like to thank the Government which has been able to take proper account of our demands, with the aim of protecting a system that has its own specificity but which above all works, carrying out a valuable task, also of a social nature. It is important to proceed with the reforms, with the modernization of the Italy system, but in doing so it is always necessary to have great care in order to avoid that what works can be dismantled, maintaining systems and structures consolidated and winning. I can only welcome the words that Deputy Minister Morando spent in this House this morning in his reply, speaking of Bolzano and Trento, stressing, on the one hand, that the original rule lacked sufficient recognition of the specific features of the Bozen cooperative credit banks movement; on the other hand, the fact that the Raiffeisen are called to contribute to the general objectives, but through an autonomous and full protection of their particularity. The cooperative system of our territory has its roots in history and has been present for more than one hundred and thirty years. It is a model more similar to the Anglo-Saxon model than to the equally important tradition of Italian cooperative credit. In 107 of the 116 municipalities of the Province of Bolzano we find the branches of the Raiffeisen at the service of the citizen, with 47 banks, 62,000 associates and with a market share of 48 percent on the territory of South Tyrol and 7 percent on the national territory. But above all it is a system with a very strong territorial roots, which also plays a social role and which has allowed our economic and social system, starting with the agricultural sector, to grow, develop and overcome many times of difficulty. In general, our territory is historically linked and also characterized by the principle of cooperation that has represented a basis and a pillar for the management of crisis situations in the last century. Full adherence to mutual values and principles has represented the compass that has always guided the choices of the South Tyrolean cooperative credit movement and in this there are also similarities with that of Trento, as the Deputy Minister rightly pointed out. During the general discussion, Senator Panizza well illustrated the characteristics of our system, its numbers and the way it interacts with the entire economic and social fabric. However, I would like to point out two more elements: the first is the extraordinary support function that it has performed especially in the hardest years of the economic crisis, because without cooperative credit many companies, perhaps, would no longer exist. The second is that, with its roots, even in the smallest mountain realities, cooperative credit plays a role as a territorial garrison, ensuring fundamental services to prevent depopulation and impoverishment of the territories. Let us think only of the additional function that will be required in the future to carry out in the face of the closure of several post offices. In short, if many of our demands had not been transposed, a negative spiral would have been created that would have affected the social fabric as well. I believe that this story and the values that animate it cannot be erased, but deserve instead to be revived. It is good that we do not make the mistake of deleting things that are working and with the measure that we approve today, with the intervention and the help of the Government, we maintain a functioning system, which I thank for.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u71	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vacciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u72	Madam President, I did not speak on the substance of this measure at the time of the debate because it was clear from the very rapid arrival in the Commission and from the discussion that we have been able to reserve for him that his history was already written, as Mr Morando himself confirmed during the brief work. I shall now confine myself to a few very quick comments on the content, on the three main issues that I think characterize this measure. With regard to the BCCs, also appreciating the fact that at least this time, contrary to what had happened with the reform of the popular banks, the stakeholders were involved and could at least express and see partially accepted their idea of self-form, I believe this is a further step towards the standardisation of the banking ecosystem. As I said also at the time of the measure on popular banks, I believe that the loss of the variety of an ecosystem is never a positive thing, because this variety, intrinsically, helps the ecosystem itself to face the various crises that can arise. It is therefore clear what the will is: to converge, in fact, towards a model of bank SpA, a bank too big to fail, as they say, but I come to say too big to save. This will make the entire credit system, in my opinion, less resilient and less able to respond to possible future systemic shocks. I also appreciated Senator Collina's speech yesterday, in the first phase of the debate, in which the senator gave us a good reading on the new European rules and the bail in which, though, if he can have some relevance to the second question that deals with this measure, in my opinion the reform of the BCC has little to do with it. If in the same speech it is said first that the Italian banking system - which, among other things, has been repeated to us a thousand times also in the Commission - has been better able to cope with the crisis by requiring less use of public resources in the previous phase of the reforms (so before the reform of the popular banks), and then it is argued that the system is not good and it must be changed, then I have reason to think that on one occasion you did not tell us the truth. In my opinion, it would have been more useful for the whole banking system to find a method to make better work on those who have to watch over it, and also on cooperative credit banks. It would have been more useful to have the courage to get rid of those people who should never have started banking. In my opinion if the concept is to create a large organism, because in it small tumors are not seen, I say that small tumors will eventually contaminate the whole big organism. But this is another speech. Then there is the issue of the securitisation of deteriorated loans. In my opinion, it is clear that if we succeed in making something attractive of those games that the banks, even though they have played - and I hope that they have done so, otherwise I would be very concerned about their activity - every possible attempt to recover damaged credits, then they have had to downgrade by force of garbage things, first, second or third choice - and we will see this - will be exclusively due to the public guarantee, with all that will result, namely a drugged market, with securitisations that we hope never end by sideways in the hands of those who are not able to understand what they are buying. But recent events would say that they are a little more cautious on this subject. As I said in the Commission, I repeat here that I can believe by faith that water becomes wine, but I cannot believe that by decree-laws garbage becomes gold. The last question is anatocism. I say that in this respect you really had the opportunity to close the issue cleanly and in favour of the citizens and - in my opinion - it has been wasted, with a solution that perhaps improves the absolute chaos we have been facing until recently - I also say that it was difficult to do worse than the previous situation - but that is technically partial, imprecise, not oriented to the full protection of the citizen and I consider it a source of further litigation. Here, however, we must have a debate on trust and, therefore, I return to the demand for trust. I would like to say a few words on this subject, to justify the reason why I do not believe that the government can be trusted. This is the third measure on banking issues that begins its iter to the House and comes to us in the Senate for a substantial ratification without any possibility of corrective intervention, because the Government considers its full right to defend a choice of which it is convinced also with the imposition of confidence. Let us remember that we have previously voted with confidence the reform of the popular banks and then the rescue banks, which was not a decree in itself but merged into the last law of stability. Why can't we trust the government? Perhaps we should take this into account in the work that has taken place in this institution, which still exists, and in particular in the Finance Commission. What has the Finance Committee been doing for the last two years? Meanwhile for two years we have carried out a cognitive survey on the banking system, during which all the critical aspects of the system have been discussed: from the excessive amount of deteriorated credits, dealt with in part in this measure, up to the possibility of adopting an Italian Glass-Steagall Act, which we then know is still a topic at the heart of the debate in Europe. In addition, we held a seminar on the subject of the reform of cooperative credit, which saw all the parties involved intervene in a timely manner: the Ministry, the stakeholders and also us, who were waiting for this reform because it had been announced beforehand by the same cooperative credit during the hearings. Then the Commission held a series of targeted hearings on the issue of bail in, the deposit guarantee system, the banking union, the single supervision: in short, on all those issues affecting the banking world. I think that the level of deepening we have achieved can be recognised without major problems, and I say this as a person of the opposition who recognises the merits in general of the work done in the Commission, in a very serious and in-depth manner, and which has led to the adoption of many operational proposals made by individuals or audit bodies. In all this, what is the result? At the moment of putting into practice, the Senate - as my fellow Senator Carraro would say - has not touched the ball and will not be able to do so. I understand that this can happen once, because there is a balance in the activity of the Chambers and can't do the whole Senate when it comes to banks. If it happens a second time, I consider it an unpleasant accident. But the third time it expresses the clear desire to exclude the branch of Parliament that has more in-depthed the banking issues from being able to contribute to the improvement of the measures on these issues. Perhaps those who have examined a subject with a certain level of depth are better silent, not to disturb the maneuvers. What is this? Is it the overcoming of bicameralism? The previous speaker spoke of constitutional reform: all very interesting, but the system is still bicameral at present and above all, if someone is doing such a thorough work on a particular subject, perhaps he would have the right to say his own, and not only to listen to his own voice, but also to be able to see some of the demands that rightly come from the outside world that is experiencing these problems and, in this case, from the external world of credit. I believe that this degrades the activities of all Members of this Parliament, and not just those of the opposition. I honestly hope that the behaviour of the Government does not express a judgment on the level of reliability towards those who work in the Commissions of merit, because in this case, since we are talking about this, I can only say that mistrust would be mutual. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with yet another government measure on the banking front in just over a year. This is a situation that makes me think of the famous Latin phrase gutta cavat stonem: just like the drop that imperterrita acts on the same point of the rock, this government has demonstrated a certain hyperactivism on the banking theme, characterized by various interventions aimed at modifying the system for its own use and consumption. Of course, Palazzo Chigi insists on talking about reforms, but in reality I would define these measures as a true climb to the power of the banking system, to the detriment of savers; in short, an attempt to pluralize the famous phrase "we have a bank" in "we have many banks." But it is known that the owners of the new company think bigger than the old managers. From Fassino to Renzi the PD continues with the control of Italian finance. You started with the decree-law on the governance of popular banks, transforming into public limited companies those that had an asset of more than 8 billion. And you have continued with the now sadly known decree saves banks, which has reduced to ruin as many as 10,500 bondholders, cheated for a sum of 340 million euros, to which it has been promised a compensation of only 100 million, less than a third of the value of the scam, and whose terms have expired already for a week without you having done anything. These are measures that I cannot call reforms, because of the questionable nature and the smoky motivation; measures, therefore, whose benefits are still all to be verified, unlike, however, the negative effects, which, on the other hand, remain and continue with consequences for the entire country. In fact, just two days ago, ISTAT declared a rise in the tax burden of 0.2 percent, due to the above-mentioned decree-law saves banks. That's a great result! The governments of the left that have followed have been able to increase the taxes to the Italians from 42.5 percent of the last Executive of President Berlusconi to 43.5 percent of the sole administrator Renzi. I am sure that the Italians can read this data well. Proof of this is that, since the last polls, the center-right is a relative majority in the country and has surpassed the left-wing power. I wonder, therefore, if the majority are really convinced to give confidence, once again, on a measure of the same nature and on a sector that employs 135 billion euros, composed of 364 banks, 4,400 branches (equivalent to 15% of the total of Italian bank branches), 1,250 million members and 36,500 employees. Already only the mere listing of these data can give an idea of how cooperative credit banks play a fundamental role for the economy and are a reality strongly and historically linked to the territory. It is precisely from these subjects that little more than 22% of the loans granted to Italian craftsmen and small enterprises are derived. And in Italy, where small and medium-sized enterprises are the strength and backbone of the national economy, having banks that really know the territory and entrepreneurs is a decisive factor in the development and growth of our country. In fact, it was the banks of proximity (the popular and the cooperatives, in fact), far from international speculation and aggressive trading, that allowed the Italian financial system to resist during the most difficult years of our crisis. I am absolutely convinced that the cooperative banking system needed improvements to ensure its survival in today's financial market, but it is certainly not the way and the time required by the government to allow this. It is not explained, in fact, the urgency that required the use of the decree-law, considering that cooperative credit banks are solid, with a capitalization index higher than the average, and only about twenty of them are considered at risk. It is not explained, in fact, the creation of the cooperative banking group, a holding company of cooperative credit banks of which the net worth of a billion is defined as the sole requirement, and nothing, on the other hand, is said about the powers and tasks of this entity, whose definition is referred to the statute. Indeed, the so-called way out threshold of EUR 200 million is not explained, a limit set without any justification, which very much recalls the 8 billion threshold laid down in the measure on popular banks. It is an incomprehensible and unattractive clause, because in case of use it requires cooperative credit banks to pay 20% of the capital: an unfair leap, useful only to the state to make cash. Finally, I wonder what the confusion created with the anomalous content of Article 17 of the measure has to do with the reform of cooperative credit banks, with which there is an uneven variety of issues. It is normal in the matter of anatocism, assigning to the Interministerial Committee for Credit and Savings the task of establishing the modalities and criteria for the production of interest, continuing with the regression for the failure to pay a bank cheque and - to conclude - providing interpretation to the rules on payments other than cash. In short, it is a real confusion, but it is known that it is the practice with which this Government acts: it is its best ally and the instrument that allows it to pursue its own interests. I should like to conclude by reminding this House that Article 45 of our Constitution recognises the social function of mutual cooperation and without the purpose of private speculation, but above all prescribes that the law promotes and promotes the increase by the most appropriate means and ensures, with the appropriate controls, its character and its aims................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Well, this measure does not respect any of the features expressly provided for in our Constitution, but the problematic relationship between the Executive and our Constitutional Charter is well known and the question of trust has become the tool with which it is mocked. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u74	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u75	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and students of the Institute of Higher Education "Giustino Fortunato" in Pisticci, in the province of Matera, who are following our work from the forums and whom I thank for the visit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u76	We proceed to the vote on the single article of bill No. 2298 of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 18 of 14 February 2016, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u79	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, the decree-law that we are about to convert has taken on board most of the proposals which, after months of work, the cooperative credit has developed and which, even before last summer, had delivered to the competent authorities - Government and Bank of Italy - with the ambition of designing a new model of network integration not borrowed from other European homologous realities. In fact, elsewhere in Europe, those organisational models had perfected over years, perhaps decades, and on the reforms of those organisational models, such as Crédit Agricole or the Raiffeisen, already mentioned, no government would ever have dreamed of resorting to the urgent decree and - worse still - to ask the question of trust. It should be remembered that everything was born in January 2015, as my colleagues Galimberti, who preceded me, and - even better - Vacciano, noting that on three major economic decrees-laws, all with great financial implications, the Government proceeded by sending the text to the Chamber of Deputies and leaving it there many, but many days, so that the Senate did not have the opportunity to amend it, work it, share it or oppose it. However, it should be remembered that in January 2015 the Government, passing the famous decree on the wrong reform of the popular banks, tried to include also the provision on cooperative banks. That decree-law, if it had been converted into the original version, would have radically changed the face of mutual credit cooperation and placed the premises for an unstoppable decline of their role on the territory. Here is the real point: their role on the territory, close to the economies, the real ones, and to the families that have seen their economic capacity lost in recent years, which has often resulted in banking suffering. Madam President, I will then come back to the subject of banking suffering because it risks going into the background, both in the economic and political debate, an issue that will mark the social life of people, families and businesses in the coming years. As I said, despite this, the banks of the territory have managed to contain and to embank that dramatic crisis. This morning Deputy Minister Morando recalled: 10 points of GDP lost in a few years, burned by a finance, which is not the finance of the BCC or cooperative banks. It is worth remembering that the smallest banks have 17 billion of those sufferings, the average ones have 39 and the first 5 have 133. These are the real numbers, and 17 are the billions of suffering against a credit paid by small and medium-sized banks that stands at around 170 billion euros: 170 billion is the money they give and 17 billion is the suffering. This was the great Italian anomaly that you wanted to correct. In correcting it, however - perhaps others have corrected it better than us - we risk to blow up an entire system that has accompanied the only real great growth of our country that took place since the post-war period until a few years ago. It is confirmed that the extraordinary role of cooperatives, cooperation alongside small enterprises and irreplaceable instruments of economic and social development is still played between the prevailing mutuality and the non-predominant mutuality. It confirms the dramatic error made by the Government with the decree last year that fixed - it has remembered well my colleague Galimberti before - the dimensional threshold of 8 billion assets for the maintenance of the status of cooperative bank, that translated meant: who own can not do without to use the instrument of solidarity and cooperation, must stop to 8 billion assets, because the market is made only for those of solidarity and cooperation can also not be interested. In this regard, I have accepted as an active and possible repentance the willingness of Deputy Minister Morando to listen to the proposals contained in amendments and agendas that we have assessed in the Commission and I hope that the Government will quickly remedy a macroscopic error, considering also the fact that it has succeeded in violating all the possible breachable, from Article 41 to Article 45 of the Constitution - Senator Galimberti also recalled them first - but also at the same time that threshold indicated by the ECB, with European legislation or, at least, that of supervision, which sets at 30 billion assets the ceiling within which cooperatives that credit must be able to stand consistently. Madam President, we Conservatives and Reformists have long said that we are concerned about the government's trend, because they are all hasty interventions: first the popular banks - waiting for the Constitutional Court not to remedy all this - and now the cooperative credit system. We have the impression that we are guided by specific needs - let me define them at least this way - perhaps regional realities, such as those of Tuscany, rather than an overall vision. In our view, there has been a bad speech on the issue of deteriorated credits, as I said at the beginning of my speech. We have underestimated the timing and the way in which we move to the bail in and this tragic mistake is still looming over us. There is a disarticulated and, therefore, dangerous way of proceeding. The danger will arise when families and businesses deal with the management of these sufferings that, entrusted to other financial companies that buy them for very little, will collect them by charging the highest and salty price, once again, to the saver and investor. The results show, however, that you have been and are wrong. Even the Minister of Economy and Finance today is forced to admit it: nothing you have done brings relief to the economy. And then you languish around the numbers of banking cooperation, inserting a very dangerous vulnus. I hope and hope, with all of you, that 51% in the holding company will be the perennial guarantee - not only for today, but forever - of the link and territorial pact, of the cohesion that the cooperative credit banks (BCC) have been able to interpret, offering the Italian authorities a courageous self-form, which we appreciate and want to accompany to the best. Of course, it is also necessary to protect them from the distortions, the svaryons and the lightness - at least - that have brought the entire cooperative credit, from the popular banks to the BCC, to be possible prey to that great finance that evidently does not arouse any concern to you, while to us yes. We know, in fact, that the origin of that economic crisis, against which we are all still fighting, is exactly in that finance made up of cards and not of economy and people. For all this we strongly deny you the vote of confidence, to support instead, convincedly, the courageous and virtuous process of the BCC, that we want to accompany towards an economy that can bring the person back to the center of economic activity, also because in those territories, together with the BCC, the enterprises and the families we live, we work and we are here to represent. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u82	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are dealing with yet another decree-law and yet another question of trust posed by the Government. It is a well-established practice to approve measures in the banking field and not only: first the reform of popular banks, then the measure saves banks and saves savers, today the reform of cooperative credit banks. The Senate is once again excluded from the work of amendment. Its prerogative to influence the legislative process is disregarded and rendered in vain. Time was there, but fear prevailed; the fear of the government, which is aware that it no longer has the numbers in the country and in Parliament, being Verdini dependent, holds together a fake majority in the Senate, only with the vote of confidence and the fear of many parliamentarians to go home, not being more representative of the citizens, but only and exclusively of themselves. Although we do not share the government's choices, we have participated with our amendments both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate and, therefore, we have not limited ourselves to purely critical action. In the Finance and Treasure Committee, the Government has accepted some of our agendas, obviously too little to change all our perplexities and opposition over the whole measure. The seriousness and competence of Deputy Minister Morando are not sufficient reasons to change the North League's clearly negative assessment of the government action of this Executive. The basic questions we asked ourselves in examining this measure and others in banking matters were very simple: will citizens' savings be safer? Do the Government's choices protect or penalise savers? Will businesses - especially small businesses and artisans - and families have easier access to credit? We are convinced that we are not and I say, unfortunately, that we are convinced that this will not be the case. Nobody wants the worst: the situation is too serious to be able to do so. We are convinced that the fragility of the banking system is partly due to the poor management of those who sat and sit on some boards of directors, but to a large extent it is the fault of the choices of Italian politics. We did not want and do not want to understand that in crisis it is not the banking system, but the country system: the crisis and difficulties of the banks are only a consequence. The deterioration of the credits is not the fault of families or businesses, but it is the fault of the State, with the choice of the euro and of tying hands and feet to a European system that has imposed a path that has plunged our economy and our competitiveness; with the choice to impose on families and businesses a taxation that has caused them to fail en masse. These are the real problems behind everything. The insolvency of businesses and the crisis of the banking system were the natural consequence of these bad choices, the choices of a state that does not want to change. The state's public spending policies have failed our economy. You, with your reforms, do not attack the real causes of the crisis that the country and its citizens are experiencing every day on their own. You're doing something else. You believe and believe that you can adapt the Italian system to the European system, to the dominant system, to the German system. In doing so, however, you are not reforming him, but you are killing him. There is no system of micro and small enterprises like ours in Europe. What was your answer? This model needs to be modified, it's anachronistic. In doing so, micro-enterprises, which have made our country's fortune, are dying to thousands. In Europe, the banking system is based on a few large groups. What was your answer? The Italian model is out of date, let's start the aggregations. We kill the rich, complex and competitive system of Italy because so at the European high level they say it must be done. But who, in these years of deep crisis, has made more credit to our production system? Who tried to keep him alive? Just popular banks and cooperative credit banks. You recognize him, too. That's what Banca d'Italia says. But you say it like they made a mistake. They've done too much credit to families and businesses. This is your absurd accusation. But what else should banks do to support development and employment? Selling financial products? Is this your bank model? The truth is that, with your reforms of popular banks and cooperative credit banks, we have no certainty that the system will be more robust. We have the only certainty that we will lose an all-Italian model, built in more than a hundred years of history. Today there is a very serious blow in this House to the mutual and cooperative system of Italian credit. You take on a very serious responsibility. The final result will be less credit and more failures, less development, less employment, and loss of credit contact with the territory. The larger banks model equals more solid banks is all to be demonstrated. Monte dei Paschi teaches, and so the Banca Popolare di Vicenza. Many savers are desperate, in the total indifference of the Government. We are being asked for a Commission of Inquiry. Are we going to set it up? When? What are we waiting for? The end of the legislature? In this provision you have also codified by law anatocism. You have established when it can be applied and when it is not possible to do so. You have established the minimum amount of anatocism applicable by the banks. I don't think that was the right choice to make. You encoded it, and you didn't delete it. This reform is also spoiled by your government's usual attempt to favor someone and not to make the same rules for everyone. The way out rule (or escape route) is yet another example. You made a decision, but you didn't take it to the end. Do you want to create a single holding company of all cooperative credit banks because you feel they will be more competitive? But at least do not give in to the usual temptation to do favors to friends of the "magic lily" or the President of the Council. What is the meaning of the way out rule for cooperative credit banks with a net worth of more than 200 million? You haven't explained it yet, and maybe out of modesty. You've explained so many other aspects, but not this. You raised the legitimate doubt that you wanted to favor some banks. Which ones? The Tuscan ones, the ones from Cambiano, the Renziani ones? Dad Boschi, Dad Lotti, Verdini: are these the bankers of reference for the choices of the Government? You are always moralists with the trials of others, never with those who are interested in your political part; always denouncing the conflict of interest, but in reality you see always and only the straw in the eye of others and never the beam in yours. It is a government full of children of bankers and former bankers, who promotes ad hoc measures to favor their partners, but always with the nerve to indignant you if someone allows you to notice it. The Red Tempa case teaches. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But you know, you're allowed to do anything. Rather, think of compensating savers who have lost the money of a lifetime with your decree saves banks. This is a priority you are neglecting. You were moving, because not only do you no longer have the confidence of the citizens, but you are now causing an increasingly widespread anger. More and more are those who are no longer willing to be mocked by the Council President's chatter. We have no confidence that these choices will benefit Italian families and businesses. We have no confidence in this Government and especially in the President-in-Office of the Council. We don't want to be your accomplices. The North League will vote against this measure and yet another request for confidence from the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u85	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed with regret that today we are once again addressing the issue of the banking sector, having to be forced - and I stress - to do so in the context of a matter of trust raised by the Government; a confidence which stands to break down at the base any reasoning and any capacity or possibility of parliamentary mediation with respect to a sector which, on the other hand, is of absolute importance, indeed fundamental to the life of the country, which annoys the majority of Italian citizens and harasses most Italian families. Instead of addressing the issue in a broad way, it will also be free from the constraints that often arise from belonging to a majority or minority group, to one part or another of the House - it is a fundamental matter, it is living flesh in society and in the economy of our country - we are forced to say a yes or a no to the confidence placed by the Government, thereby limiting the freedom not of the opposition but of the majority. When the government gets bogged down with confidence, it is not an action of confidence that Parliament - our Senate in this case - has asked - but it is clearly an indication of distrust of its own parliamentarians. Majority parliamentarians today are called upon to once again give a blank card to what has been done in part in the other branch of Parliament and in part - I must say this and I apologize if the adjective that I use may seem heavy - in the closed rooms of the Government. I have to say, Madam President, that in banking matters, as many as four decree-laws in the last four months have all the flavor, meaning, unpleasant feeling that the decisions taken by the government were not exactly the free determination of a line to be taken, nor the free determination of a right or wrong choice, taken on the basis of their own elements and assessments, but were always decisions to chase at least states of urgent crisis. The answers to these four measures have always and constantly been absolutely inadequate from the point of view of the immediate response, dear President. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]] In order to protect the swindled saver, there is an absolutely insufficient amount of refreshment, but it is not given either because the stepmother Europe would prevent us from doing so. Then, by chance, Margrethe Vestager, our Commissioner for Competition, intervenes, to say that it is absolutely permissible to make arbitrations at the state level, at the level of each nation, in order to be able to restore the damage suffered. And despite the intervention of the other hateful Commissioner Vestager, we do not intervene. And then this Europe, when it suits us, is bad, and when it doesn't suit us, it isn't. This is a government that intervenes by decree from time to time, which intervenes from time to time to ask for confidence in the measures without making the implementing decrees in relation to decisions previously taken and without showing Parliament an organic plan. Premier Renzi was also self-harmful in the statements he made: he assumed responsibilities that in truth, if he had had some courage, he would not even have had to assume. And to say that he is good at unloading and, but in this case he did not, in order to save - hear, hear - the strong. Strong with the weak and weak with the strong. One could not touch the Bank of Italy, beware: that is a temple. The Bank of Italy, in the last twenty years, has done nothing but try to save the system. Shall we see him for a second? Forgive me for bringing into the House of the Italian Parliament problems relating to the Bank of Italy. Well: in the last twenty years, every time a crisis bag was manifested, every time a bank emerged, indeed, not a bank but the management group of a bank that had at least mismanaged creating lacks and conditions for the default of that same bank, instead of intervening by fulfilling its role of control by healing the system instead of fixing it, cleaning the dirty rooms instead of hiding the dust under the carpets, what was done? He took the marching bank and saved it by having it bought from a so-called good bank. What have we achieved? Very often the contagion effect: the small rotten apple could rot the entire apple basket, and we hid the problems. With this lack of vigilance and unwillingness to make clear decisions, we felt that we had saved the system. Instead, we just covered it up. Once again we are faced with a similar situation and we do not see what the Italian family needs, that is, easy access to credit and to be protected in its savings. You've seen this, gentlemen of the government, that people are running away, they're running to recover their savings because they're afraid or no longer trusted in the system of managing their own funds by banks. Do you see what's happening? Once again choose to be on the side of the strongest. Once again, the level of debts to be acquired is 17 percent. There is a European average that is 25% and you set a limit for the benefit not of banks but of finance (which is quite different). You are friends of finance, you are not friends of banks because banks, when they do their job well, in turn are friends of the economy and are friends of the family fabric of our territory. Well, help finance with this roof set not at 18, not at 15, not at 20, but at 17 percent. What about the surpluses? Because don't think, do it with a next measure, but above all try to get an idea and give an organic structure to the whole system. But why can't all the bondholders who entrusted their savings to the banking system be compensated? Why not really go and determine an action for which we can, at the same time, not only compensate but, paying back, restore confidence in the whole system? And then there's a crazy question: a government, and I want to add a left-wing government like yours, even if yours is more center-right-left... Anyway, it's a government, your government, but I mean, it's ever possible... [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u86	Go ahead, Senator, don't be distracted, and I recommend the language.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u87	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Absolutely. I was climbing in search of an adjective, I was unlucky and I apologize. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Especially unlucky. MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). I couldn't find a suitable one. But let me understand: you are the Italian Government and therefore you must be against anatocism! You must say a clear word because anatocism is not only a hateful practice, it is also a crime, it is something that does not exist in nature; it is harassment. If Dante made a round for those who lent money to usury, let alone for the anatocism that goes far beyond. Do popular banks bother you if you leave alone, manage the economy of a territory, in contact with the people who work and who produce? They become independent and the system cannot be controlled? What are we talking about? In my Province there is a popular bank that has always been one of the elements of success, maybe not controllable and not manageable. Madam President, thank you for giving me more time to speak. I thank the Government for admissions of deficiency with respect to some aspects. We cannot vote for confidence; unfortunately we will not vote for a government's choice of trust, because perhaps some parts of the measure could have voted for them, some shared and others helped to change them. But you put your trust. You ask us if we have faith in you; we answer you: we have no confidence in you, even as you have done with this provision. But since I represent a group in an explanation of vote, within which there are colleagues who have a different view, I say that, for the most part, our Group expresses no confidence in the motion put forward by the Government. [[Applause from Senators Buccarella and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u90	Longo Eva (AL-A). Madam President, we are faced with a particularly complex decree-law, which takes into account different aspects: the strengthening of the banking structures of our country with the transformation of cooperative banks, the problem of bank suffering, tax provisions relating to crisis procedures, more precise regulation of alternative investment funds, binding rules for the calculation of interest in current account or payment account relationships, a different regulation of relations with the Central Treasury and the Deposit and Loan Fund. These are problems which, as you can see, do not have the same value, but they reflect a certain crowding of issues that perhaps do not help that legislative simplification from several sides evoked. Having said that, it is good to separate and focus on the most relevant aspects. The red thread is represented by the strengthening of the Italian banking system, which today lives a troubled season. The issue is therefore that of cooperative banks and accumulated banking suffering, for which the relevant securitisation is expected to be assisted by State guarantees. A subject, the latter, which has caused a great deal of debate, especially in the Community, where the danger of state aid has been overshadowed several times, forgetting what happened only a few years ago, when many European banks were rescued thanks to the State's direct intervention on the share capital of the latter. The ratio of the measure aims to strengthen the system architecture: inescapable choice. Financial structures, not only Italian, are under increasing pressure. A first problem is possible symmetrical shocks, which are the product of the globalization of markets. It was clearly seen with the failure of the Lehman Brothers. The shock wave of that crisis has hit many European countries: England and Germany, not to mention Spain and Ireland. In Italy we were deluded that our banks, because they did not speak English (as was said then) were exempt from it: it was a mistake. The Government did not intervene in the wake of similar European interventions. In fact, Italy financed the rescue of the banks of other countries, except then to have to take note of the accumulation of suffering to which we are trying to remedy today. A second danger is asymmetric shocks. The latter are a consequence of the peculiarities of the Italian situation; they are attributable, in other words, to the particular configuration of its economic system. The crisis in the real economy in Italy has been stronger than elsewhere; this is demonstrated by the strong drop in income, those 9 points of difference that still distinguish us from the European average, a gap that we will recover only slowly. From a territorial point of view, the crisis is not uniform: many companies, especially in the North, have been converted, while others unfortunately, and are in greater numbers, are struggling. Their crisis is reflected in the state of health of the smaller banks, when the latter are too linked to those territories. Hence the need to strengthen their assets. Think about what happens in Veneto, where the People of Vicenza and Veneto Banca live today a deep crisis. The problem of the popular banks, which are too small and too much linked to the individual territories, must therefore be addressed at the root, providing for forms of aggregation that allow, on the one hand, not to disperse the specific knowledge of the environment in which they operate and, on the other hand, to ensure their solid assets, merging into a more solid organization. This is the basic choice of the decree-law at our examination. In fact, it is expected that a banking group will be created, to which the individual people must merge, or that they will be transformed into public limited companies, when their capital has a minimum size, which is indicated in 200 million. This faculty is limited in time (sixty days), precisely to give certainty to the entire system. The limit of EUR 200 million seems to be sufficient, given that the cooperative credit banks, according to the latest Mediobanca survey, are more than 300, many of which have a capital stock and a number of branches of all respect. (15.32) (LONGO Eva followed). Their possible transformation into a public limited company will lead to a tax penalty (20% of the net worth), as a refreshment of the tax facilities obtained in the past, as well as all cooperative companies. It is therefore understandable that their legal transformation also entails a tax realignment, in the presumption that part of the net worth possessed was also the reflection of the lower taxes paid in the past. We will therefore have a more robust banking system in the new legal regime. This passage can be made even more effective if at the same time, as is the case in the decree, the problem of banking suffering will arise. This is a general problem that does not only concern cooperative credit banks, even if the deteriorated loans of the latter, always according to the data of Mediobanca (2014), amounted to 12.4% of the total credit to customers, compared to 10.5% of the other banks. Why is it so important to solve this problem? First of all, for a contingent reason. Their presence on the balance sheets of individual banks is likely to frustrate the European Central Bank's policy and Mario Draghi's efforts to combat deflation. The banks, in fact, cannot lend credit to the productive structures until their capital ratios are affected by the presence of this burden, which is not so modest, given that we are talking about 200 or 80 billion euros, depending on whether we consider gross or net. Cleaning up the balance sheets of individual banks therefore becomes essential to enable them to provide credit, while respecting the constraints of sound and prudent management. In the Italian case, the phenomenon is even more important because of the more general contradictions of economic policy imposed mainly by Brussels. The conflict is between a monetary policy that aims at a 2% inflation target and a fiscal policy that is bound to respect the fiscal compact. In the first case, in fact, attempts are being made to combat deflation by unconventional measures. In the second, orthodoxy prevails and a grip that denies, at the root, the attempt to create inflation, instead feeding a situation tending to deflationary. Credit institutions are at the heart of this contradiction. They have ease of provision, at least thanks to the European Central Bank, but do not have a claim for credit due to the stagnation of domestic demand. They are, therefore, tightened in a vise. Possible margins of mediation are narrowed. The final result is, inevitably, the lack of exercise profits or the growth of suffering, due to the crisis of the real economy. The decree-law at our examination seeks, as far as possible, to take charge of this contradiction, giving oxygen to the credit institutions, allowing them to get rid, with the securitisation assisted by a state guarantee, of the sufferings on the budget. But it is clear that the physiological solution is elsewhere. In other words, it is necessary to reconcile budgetary policy and monetary policy in order to direct both of them towards a single objective. As long as this does not happen, it will be difficult for the problem to find a definitive solution. For the reasons set out above, the AL-A Group voted in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u93	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, the reform of cooperative credit banks intends to continue the work of restructuring and innovation of the Italian credit system, already undertaken with the reform of popular banks. As you know, the exercise of banking activity in the form of cooperative credit in the future is only allowed to cooperative banking companies that are part of a cooperative banking group. For cooperative credit banks which do not belong to this group, a way out mechanism is envisaged which is faithful to the cooperative model. The requirements introduced by this reform favour access to the capital market as well as the capitalization of the parent company and the participating institutions. This determines the conditions for their competitiveness and efficiency. Therefore, innovative rules are introduced in the management of savings that allow to favor the credit to the enterprises and to prevent or better manage eventual situations of crisis. This happens with attention to the virtuous realities present in the cooperative credit system and to their relationship with the territory, thus safeguarding also their mutual aims. In the context of the reform, the decisive point for us self-employed was undoubtedly the recognition of the right to set up an autonomous holding company based in the province of Bolzano, provided that the participating banks and the leading bank operate exclusively in the provincial territory and have headquarters in the same territory. Similar rules and possibilities are provided for the Autonomous Province of Trento. The agreement reached through a proposal for a change, which we have defined with the Government and with the majority, thus safeguards the autonomy of the South Tyrolean rural coffers. The particularity of the Raiffeisen system, now in force, has therefore been recognized. The Raiffeisen coffers already play a very important role in the local economy. Moreover these coffers have anticipated the national system with the creation of the Central Cassa, a group leader in the form of SpA that operates for many years in our Province and that coordinates and strengthens the individual coffers adherents. This successful model, whose solidity has also been recognized and appreciated by the Bank of Italy, is thus safeguarded. Now it will be up to the Bank of Italy to define the requirements relating to the equity of the parent company and the size of the group, obviously taking into account the limited territorial demarcation. This derogation, introduced during the conversion of the decree-law, removes from the reform constraints and parameters that would have prevented the Raiffeisen system from continuing to operate and safeguard also the legislative and statutory competences of the Trentino-Alto Adige Region in relation to the world of cooperation. Therefore, this is a solution that does not penalise, but - on the contrary - rewards the criteria of prudent management and effective organization of credit, which are - also these - the objectives of the reform at national level. We are also very pleased that it has been possible to improve the text of the reform in relation to what was planned at the beginning of its parliamentary process. Government and majority showed great attention and sensitivity to the problems posed. In this respect, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Deputy Minister Morando for his excellent and laborious work, which has contributed greatly to a very broad convergence of the text under consideration. The Autonomous Group shares the structural objectives of the reform and, in particular, the objective of reducing situations of fragility in cooperative credit and increasing guarantees for savers. For these reasons, the Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE will vote in favour of the question of trust posed by the Government. [[Senator Fravezzi's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u96	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, we have already expressed our very strong reservations about this measure, both for the instrument that has been chosen to use, namely the decree-law, and because, as always, the measure has an annex: the imposition of trust. We are now moving forward with a cliché that constantly humiliates this House and the whole of Parliament. I believe that an organic reform of the cooperative credit banks system implemented by decree-law is certainly not the best way to tackle such a complex problem. As for the humiliation of this House, I would like to say one thing very clearly. Last Sunday, the President of the Council Renzi was interviewed by Lucia Annunziata in the program "In 1/2h". Speaking of the motions of distrust presented to the Senate, he - I don't know if it was a wish - let himself go to judgment on the senators, saying that the presentation of the motion of distrust would be motivated by the idea of revenge for constitutional reform. The President-in-Office even hoped that the senators would no longer be able to return to this House even for guided visits. These are serious but absolutely revealing statements of what this Government has in mind, including with regard to the function of Parliament. Today's explanations of vote on the issue of trust, made in this half-desert Chamber, are perhaps proof of the degree of relationship between the legislative function and the executive function. Our vote on the question of trust will obviously be against, but we would have voted against the measure even without the imposition of confidence, so on the substance of the issues dealt with by the decree-law in question. There are a lot of reasons for this. First of all - we repeat - we consider the non-accession clause (the so-called way out) absolutely unbalanced, since only cooperative credit banks with at least €200 million of capital reserves are left to choose (a considerable amount if it is thought that, until the adoption of the measure, €2 million was sufficient to set up a new bank). Small ones, or those who do not feel they have to merge with other institutions, are forced, willing or not, to undergo a monitoring umbrella or a holding company established by law. Moreover, for those same BCCs who decide to exercise the way out, it is foreseen the forced transformation into public limited companies and the payment of a share, as a tax, of 20% of the net worth, with the serious risk of exposing an entire system and a heritage built by generations of members to opportunist temptations by those who could dispose without those same constraints that have determined the provision over time. This possibility will obviously make it convenient for members to transform by making it available to members, becoming shareholders, large sums previously indivisible, allowing them to make huge gains. At the end of this road we do not believe that there is a stronger cooperative credit; there is a cooperative credit demolished in favour of a private capital system such as that of public limited companies. The credit will no longer be paid according to the cooperative rules, i.e. favouring its members for at least 51%; the SpA can be sold, and therefore also penalising the territories in which they are established, and will open to the entry of groups of a private nature. The rules should also be the same for everyone: if one recognizes the right to become a SpA in order not to undergo a constraint, even a heavy one, of internal supervision, which can even reach the Commissariat, it should be recognized to all institutions. It is not clear why, in the light of the reform, the transition from cooperative credit banks, i.e. from a cooperative bank to the prevailing mutuality, to ordinary commercial companies, with relative possibility of freeing them, should be allowed, and should instead be excluded if the resulting society is constituted in the form of a popular bank, a bank always cooperative, but with non-predominant mutuality. The way in which BCCs can form the holding company's capital is still unclear because it does not specify whether it should be capitalised on cash or through asset transfer. The forecast that allows the holding company to commission the levels of government of individual BCCs no longer in justified and exceptional cases, as originally provided for in the text presented by the Government, but simply on the basis of a motivation, does not provide as a counterweight that the cohesion contract guarantees to the banks belonging to the group an elastic degree of autonomy related to the ability of each of them to maintain solid their financial situation and profitable, their current activity, thereby making them lose progressively autonomy by transforming the BCC members of the cooperative group into branches of a single bank or, worse, by starting a bank that can become property also of foreign funds and that can freely commissary all the underlying banks. Thus, a hybrid model is created which, in addition to failing to replicate the models present in other European nations due to obvious dimensional disparities, loses all those peculiarities of cooperation in the credit sector, aimed at enhancing the local, cultural and socio-economic specificities of the different Italian territories. In essence, a system is created with which it facilitates the commissioning of the BCC members of the group by the holding company, they push small BCCs to merge with the big ones in order to exercise the way out; they allow the big BCCs to derogate from that prevailing mutuality that up to now has favored the credit to SMEs and families. This reform sets in motion a mechanism that has nothing virtuous. While it is said that it wants to make a single holding company to protect cooperative credit and, therefore, also its future perspective, a law will actually be launched that should be called in a completely different way, because its only effect is to push cooperative credit banks to aggregate, to reach the minimum level of equity and to become a SpA. Further serious and dangerous criticality is the fact that the decree-law is built around the basic approach of the ECB that says it wants to pursue the stability of the banking system in order to promote economic recovery, but that in fact in recent years it has moved in exactly the opposite direction. This approach reverberates in the forecast contained in the provision according to which the MEF has reserved the possibility to change the law, with own decree, modifying the share ownership percentage of the new great cooperative group, that the decree-law today previews to 51 percent in the hands of the individual BCCs that compose it. This 51% is a minimum basis for offering a guarantee of autonomy to the cooperative banks that make up the holding company and thus constitutes a barrier to the distortion of cooperative aims. The possibility entrusted to the MEF to modify by decree this percentage, lowering it to 40, to 30 or even to 10 percent, objectively opens the way to the concrete possibility of privatization of the group including all the Italian BCCs, that could thus become SpA in the hands of other banks of greater size or, worse still, of foreign funds. What reverberates in this aspect of the decree-law is the European fear and obsession of an Italy that can infect other countries of the Union with its presumed instability. The Government offers on time a solution of passive acquiescence in this sense, without minimally protecting the interest of the country and our economy, which bases its foundations on a widespread and robust network of small and medium-sized enterprises, which finds and has found, in a large part of the territory, an effective and fundamental shore in the fabric of cooperative credit and that in fact this decree-law sets itself the objective of unexpressed, indeed deliberately disguised, to dismantle. For this reason, the Italian Left will vote against the trust and the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u99	MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, I have considered whether or not to make this explanation of vote, because a rule is introduced in this decree-law which I consider to be wrong and which can constitute a serious precedent for Italian cooperation. If the legislative process had started in the Senate, that rule would probably have been further reduced, if not even cassata. When the Senate is reduced to say only a "yes" or a "no" it not only reduces the legislative function, but it makes the democracy mediocre. With the same intellectual honesty I recognize that the establishment of the decree-law, in its various titles and with the important changes and the equally important integrations that took place in the Finance Committee in the Chamber of Deputies - also thanks to the work of Deputy Minister Morando, whom I thank - is convincing and useful for the country. We are not a Group led by an ideology, we are not a Manichaean Group or a Demagogy Group and therefore we do not believe that the crisis has only one responsibility. The crisis that has crossed the country has parents scattered across all sectors of the economy and institutions. Therefore, the banks are not free from criticism at all, but they are still essential intermediaries for us to support economic recovery. We therefore trust that the judiciary, the Bank of Italy and the statutory bodies of the same banks will pursue, in compliance with the law, the dishonest directors and those unable of the credit institutions, some even important, in serious crisis or gone into default. However, we recognize that in the last seven years the Italian banking system first faced a financial crisis, which came from overseas, then a sovereign debt crisis and finally a crisis of the real economy, without downloading the costs to the Italian taxpayers. Public measures to support the financial sector were around 4% of GDP for the European average, 0.1% in Italy and around 8% in Germany (not to mention Ireland and Greece). The many cases of insolvency have resulted in a considerable increase in the amount of credit that has deteriorated, and since Italy needs strong financial intermediaries on the asset side, thus able to give credit, i.e. breath, to companies and families, the intervention of the Government becomes - and has been - important and necessary. As he recalled in his reasoned and convincing reply the Deputy Minister Morando, the decree-law moves in the right direction both when reforming the cooperative credit and when building a market of banking sufferings with the granting of the guarantees of the State to senior tranches of the securitisation is also when it intervenes in tax matters with the tax package. It has been said that the reform of cooperative credit banks breaks down the only truly localistic and participatory presence in the world of bank credit. If that were the case, I would first invite the Senate to vote against the government. Let's reason: the BCCs in Italy are 360 and were born one hundred and thirty years ago. At the beginning of the twentieth century there were 2,600. In 1945, 835; in 1961 there were 731. Then a continuous descent, until you reach 360 and beyond today. The BCCs go through three centuries with three reforms, including this one. They are born to meet the needs of rural populations against usurers. In 1937 they open to the artisan world and in 1993 they open to all categories, with a retail practice, doing retail. Even with the important reforms of 1937 and 1993 it was said that cooperative credit banks, then rural banks, would become something else. Economic democracy and participation would end in them and be swept away by competition. They would have been approved by the other banks. Yet, as the number of BCCs drops, these reforms expand the presence on the territory, so as to cover 2,700 municipalities, and in the last twenty years the members rise exponentially. Thanks to the consistent application of the rules of good cooperation, the capitalization of the BCC has been greater than the rest of the system: more than 20 percent, equal to 20.5 billion of these times. But BCCs, like cooperatives, are not from another world. In a constantly evolving market with increased competition, cooperatives must be able to shape themselves to market logics. The problem is that they do not lose the soul: without selling the soul. In some sectors of traditional cooperative settlement, such as agriculture, consumption and credit, the time of solitary cooperatives, atomic cooperatives, which are not integrated into a cooperative group or consortium or cooperative chain is over. The prolonged economic crisis exposes cooperative credit banks that do retail, and exposes them by a lot. The partners physical persons in the past have come together to make a cooperative, to make a BCC against the usurers. Today, cooperatives must also come together and cooperate between cooperatives, in order to defend the values of economic democracy, of participation from below, of defending the weakest in the economy and, above all, to carry out their mission to the full. And not just us, but also the world of credit in Europe. In Germany, with the union between DZ Bank and WGZ Bank; in France, with the union between Crédit mutual and Crédit agricole; in Spain and Holland itself, which was the reference point with a group already integrated around Rabobank and which is even more integrated today. There are and will be profound changes in cooperative credit worldwide. If the Italian credit cooperatives remained as they are, the decline would begin and some signs would begin, some creaks already feel today. Therefore, the reform that we are voting on today will favour the birth of a banking group with a solid parent company, whose majority capital is in the hands of the BCCs; a group based on the protagonism of the single cooperative credit bank, which remains the owner of the banking licence and where the practice of mutuality and cooperative participation remains intact. In contrast to what is happening in Europe, the gradation of the powers of the parent company has been introduced in relation to the degree of merit of the single BCC. The powers of the parent will be proportionate to the riskiness of the participating banks. That is why this is a great reform. The Federcasse must be acknowledged to have self-formed, to have proposed a project, and to acknowledge that the Government has in fact validated this reform. Therefore, to the concerns that this decree-law takes the path of forced approval of cooperative credit to banking giantism our answer is no: this is a true, authentic, democratic reform. The Senate, therefore, today writes a historical page, a page of strengthening, growth and development of the world of cooperative credit banks, without these banks losing their souls. However, on this page, Madam President, there is a small black spot. A stain that the House has tried to reduce, but that there is, is visible and is a bearer of problems. The introduction of a way out, the so-called way out, responds to the particular need - let's face it - of some neighborhood co-workers; it is likely to affect the strategic design by breaking the system; it introduces a virus into cooperative practice and principles. The way out is not an invention of today. I would like to remind most of the groups who have spoken in this debate and who have criticized the way out, that both in the centre-right and the centre-left governments have attempted this very way out, which is what we are introducing today in this reform. On the other hand, the idea of today's way out is also that of yesterday (on the other hand, chameleons change colors, but not the head). To those who say that the way out responds to the constitutional dictation of Article 41 of the Constitution, to respect, that is, the entrepreneurial activity, I reply, however, that the same observation was not taken into account when they were transformed in a forced way - even with my convinced vote - the popular banks in SpA. The way out will generate genetically modified cooperatives, cooperative GMOs, cooperatives that are stripped of their mission and their history and that the next day they will be looking - always with those same chameleons - for an exit from the blockade of indivisible reserves and the unwillingness of the assets to transform the co-operatives into shareholders. In conclusion, does the stain or project weigh more? It undoubtedly weighs more on the construction of a structural project for the finance of the country and for the banks of cooperative credit. For this reason I declare the vote in favour of the conversion into law of the decree-law and the confidence of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u102	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, I would like to address Matteo Renzi directly - and I am sorry he is not here today - to greet and welcome the new entry by a majority, namely the Verdini/AL-A Parliamentary Group. [[Applause from Senator Paglini.]] However, I am sure that his faithful will be glad to report it to him. As I said yesterday, we are talking here today about banks, and today you and your government have also put your trust. Of course you have a lot of courage. No one can deny that. You and your government are involved in several scandals and investigations, and you keep saying that everything is fine. We are not surprised at his attitude, but we are surprised at the behaviour of Members of Parliament who support his Government without knowing what will make him vote from time to time. As a rule, in this maxi amendment no new brands should arise for his friends because it is already very clear. You, with all your government, represent only the interests of the lobbyists, a small circle of people who own, alone, almost all the wealth of the planet and continue to want more and more to the detriment of the citizens who work or who would like to work dignifiedly. I would like to remind you that although you have never received the support of the Italian people for your position, you should represent and defend the interests of Italian citizens. It is even clear the message that the life-senator Mario Monti has sent to this House. It seemed to mean: be careful how you behave, you're in the crosshairs, don't denigrate Europe too much because it could be fatal, metaphorically speaking. In fact, you have received the message and you have gone straight to the shelter: a measure in favour of the large banks to arrive, after monetary union, at the European banking union with the aim of a European Ministry of Finance that will monitor and manage the economy of the European Union. Senator Napolitano will be very happy: the new world order is about to be completed. This maneuver, with all the others you are presenting and raving on TV or in the living rooms will bring no benefit to people and the real economy. It is not true that these reforms will allow banks to give credit to small businesses or families in difficulty. It's a lie. The Italian banking system needs healthy administrators and real controls. We have to divide the business banks from the commercial banks. We need to establish rules and sanctions for those who cheat savers, not help them escape and get away with it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The banks give money to those who already have them, or to those who boast friendships that matter. This is proof of the banking suffering that must be attributed to the large industrial groups or to the manufacturers that have made the wrong investments that the result of which has already been known. But favors to friends bring votes, votes bring power, and power brings money. When will you make a decree-law to establish the polythometer? When will citizens be able to know whether a politician, after years of career, has increased his fortune in a way that is disproportionate? I forgot, his goal is not the welfare of his fellow citizens. He'll leave only the crumbs of this country to them while he's trying to buy them today with 80 euros a month. Shame on you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But let's go back to the banking system: what have you done in these two years? The reform of Bankitalia, trying to raise the balance sheets of banks that after the stress tests were in economic difficulty. You gave him seven and a half billion. As for the reform of the popular banks, you forced them to transform into SpA, according to your personal division between large and small banks, which is not reflected in any Italian or European regulations. But it was so convenient for someone: you see speculation that happened. Then new securitisation, i.e. creative and speculative finance on deteriorated and hard-to-receipt loans, with the possibility for banks to deduct losses on loans in a single year and no longer in eighteen. Then we have the entry into force of the bail in, where savers, those who have a bank account and have not made any investment, could be called to account for bank losses. And what about the so-called decree-law saves banks, passed into the law of stability because you were afraid to bring it to the Chamber? Then we come to the legislative decree where we establish that the lender (usually the bank) can enter directly into possession of the property placed under warranty without the verification of a third-party judge. I certainly forgot about other measures. Today, however, with this decree-law reinserted the banking anatocism: the maturation of interest on the interests, as do the usurers, and new securitisation covered by the State, with the money that was intended to guarantee the debts that the public administration has not yet paid to its creditors. Is this always for the real economy? And are these measures for the benefit of citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises in favour of the economy? You are making this country a slave: precarious workers with precarious homes. It's good for you to govern people who are always under blackmail out of hunger. Use the blackmail of jobs also for the referendum campaign of April 17 against drills, without taking into account the damage you are causing to the environment and people, with considerable costs for health and reclamation. Shame. I don't know how many of you know people with salaries of EUR 800-1,000 a month, with whom they have to pay rent or mortgage, feed the family, send their children to compulsory school; not to mention high school and university. In two years of your government, all the citizens and I have never seen a measure in our favor. There is also a lack of guarantee and assistance for those attending compulsory school. But nobody cares about that. For you better a slave and ignorant country. Shame. [[Applause from Senators Nugnes and Paglini.]] Families with more children each year have to buy new schoolbooks even for compulsory school. Study is not only mandatory, but it is a right enshrined in our Constitution. Shame. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would be curious to see each of you living in the same conditions for just a week; feel the pain of having to tell your son: I can't buy you a popsicle because I don't have the money. We citizens need concrete measures to enable us to live peacefully and dignifiedly, as with the income of citizenship, which has been stationary in the Commission for months and months. [[Applause from Senators Buccarella and Paglini]] ), of which you do not even want to talk; or you read as the class action to defend us from the abuses of the powerful, already approved in the House, but stopped in the Senate. You have a vision of the world and of Italy like horses when they have blind eyes. You can only go forward without realizing what's going on around you. The country needs a different government, it needs honest people and with free hands. And, until there is a 5 Star Government, we will continue to scream our indignation and our conviction that these infamous measures are not to the detriment of the good name of Italy and the well-being of the citizens. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind everyone that we have tabled a motion of no confidence to this Government and that we are waiting for it to be scheduled as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u105	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law deals with the regulation of cooperative credit banks, largely modifying the single text on banking and credit matters. It also specifies other issues concerning the guarantee on the securitisation of suffering, the tax regime on crisis procedures and collective management of savings. Preliminarily, it must be emphasized that, despite Federcasse (the federation that groups the former rural and artisan coffers) has shared this reform, there are still many doubts and fears expressed by the many realities of territorial credit, which feel threatened their autonomy. In fact, many of these small realities see mined the foundation and essence of the small credit institutions, which, born on the initiative of the reference territories, work almost exclusively to support these realities, creating with this intervention a damage to the Italian credit system. The transformation into new players of cooperative credit banks will not lead to a strengthening of the banking sector, nor will it ensure that the available liquidity turns into credit to households and businesses, thus favouring the availability of better services at lower prices. On the contrary, even that portion of credit so far devoted to the territory could be relegated to the strictest parameters of the allocation of credit, followed by large banks or large banking groups, with standardized criteria throughout the national territory. The provision clearly clashes with the constitutional principles of freedom of enterprise, providing for the transformation into joint-stock cooperative companies that will be able to carry out banking activities only if they belong to a cooperative banking group. If we consider the credit data in our country, the cooperative credit banks as a whole have seen an increase in credit to customers. On the contrary, banks with the nature of joint stock companies have reduced the amount of loans and even the large foreign banking groups present in our country have recorded a negative sign in the transaction. Most of the credit claims of cooperative credit banks were decided in favour of very small, small and medium-sized enterprises. If there had not been this large mass of credit, many companies would have gone into crisis, thus certainly leading to an increase in the number of people without a job. I would also like to point out that, despite suffering, small territorial banks have managed to maintain a high level of capitalization. In this respect, it should be considered that the index of equity capitalisation (CET1) of cooperative credit banks in 2014 was 16.1 per cent, compared with 12.3 per cent of other Italian banks and an average CET1 of 11.4 per cent of the largest European banks. The BCCs have a consolidated assets of 20.2 billion euros and represent the third Italian banking company. But at the same time the BCCs, present with 371 institutes, have a significant presence of proximity, with 4,450 branches in 2,697 Italian municipalities. In particular, the BCC allocated 96 percent of the funding, amounting to 92 billion in 2014, to businesses and households. They have given one in five families access to a home-purchase loan and have allowed micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are the backbone of our production system to invest in their own business, safeguarding - as I said before - jobs. The credit boost is demonstrated by the acceptance of 84.8% of the required funding, compared with 75.3% of the other banks. It should also be borne in mind that proximity and knowledge of the territory usually reduce the risk of the loan itself and in particular that the BCCs have suffered in loans to enterprises of 21.6 percent, compared to 33.7% of other banks. The BCCs, as proximity banks, have followed their creditors to the end and have not abandoned them to their own destiny, as the large banks have often done. They were also protected from low exposure to the volatility of wholesale collection and from the limited weight of financial investment. In short, they have continued to care for their elected clients, as I have already said, smaller businesses and families, having the advantage of having information, also qualitative, that have made credit policies more effective. The consequences of the decline in the supply of credit by major banks have been partly mitigated by the economic system. Precisely in the period of crisis, the banks of the territory, while struggling to safeguard their stability in the face of the pressing demand that comes from the communities of reference, have acted as real shock absorbers of economic shocks. It should also be stressed that cooperative credit banks contain in themselves the nature of mutuality, wherever provided for in their statutes, protected by the Constitution. The character of mutuality is referred to, first of all in the assessment of the credit quality that cooperative credit banks carry out vis-à-vis 1,230,308 members, customers and the reference territory. There is mutuality in favour of the members, but above all a mutuality aimed at the local economies served by the bank, as evidenced by the statutory clauses of all cooperative credit banks. It is worth remembering that there are 755 million micro-credits from cooperative credit banks, to a very large extent intended to combat situations of economic and social fragility. To confirm the value of cooperative credit banks there is the circumstance that every year 7% of the profits are allocated from cooperative credit to communities for activities of support of the territory, compared to 2.38% of the other banks. This testifies to the purely mutual character of the cooperative corporate structures of these banks vis-à-vis the territories. One aspect on which I would like to make a reflection, also raised by Federcasse, is that this decree-law would undermine the Constitutional Charter in Article 41, because it risks imposing a limit on the free development of the cooperative form in the banking sector. This measure is a tight intervention on cooperative credit, also undermining the principles that encourage and protect savings, where territorial banks will be essentially forced to converge in the single central banking group. It should be noted once again that, again in this case, the territorial proximity of the banks amounts to greater control by the accountants and the consequent greater protection of the integrity of the savings itself. The decree-law contains other rules that see us strongly opposed that concern the provisions for the securitisation and management of suffering, on which my colleagues of Forza Italia have spoken in general debate and that therefore here I just want to remember as a title. For this reason, I declare the contrary vote of the Forza Italia Group because this measure mortifies those realities of the country that are actually reacting to the crisis; but in addition it demonstrates, once again, the lack of strategy of this Government and the inability to respond to the real problems of the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u108	Rossi Gianluca (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister Morando, the speeches by the rapporteur and colleagues of the Fornaro and Marino Democratic Party facilitate this explanation of vote and I shall therefore confine myself to general political considerations. Among other things, the Deputy Minister has already explained, in addition to the issues of merit, also the questions of method for which the Government has chosen the way of the decree-law. The cooperative credit banks, as has been said, have always represented a great heritage in our country; just think that at the end of the nineteenth century there were more than 900 rural banks in Italy and in the different constitutional and legislative passages of the twentieth century have always maintained the foundation of mutuality, founded on the principle of reciprocity in a long-term and intergenerational vision. In the long years of the crisis, Italian GDP lost 9%, gross fixed capital formation decreased by about 30%, industrial production fell by 25% and the credit system fell sharply, with an increase in suffering, credit losses and negative effects on the profitability of the sector, with inevitable effects on the production system, particularly on small and very small enterprises. In this context, cooperative credit banks have played a key role in addressing entire productive sectors in difficulty, particularly those facing the internal market. The long recession has been a watershed for the Western economy and the European banking system in particular. The crisis has led to the completion of the European Banking Union, accompanied by new and more stringent rules on governance and credit delivery. In this new context, some countries have considered to intervene directly with large injections of liquidity to support the system; others, like Italy, have chosen to use another lever, such as that of systemic legislative interventions without committing public resources. If we had done as Germany, France and Spain, we would have had to invest 130 billion euros, which is impossible for our country. All this leads the entire Italian and European regulation to push towards a strengthening of the banking system's assets, in order to increase the ability to respond, with the system of cooperative credit banks particularly exposed, but it continues to express a great vitality due mainly to the wide and widespread territorial articulation, as has been said by several colleagues. It is, therefore, a necessary reform, because it seems almost impossible to make bank of proximity and mutualism in solitude (I would allow myself to say in atomic order) and because the organization and processes within the system of cooperative credit banks (the third Italian reality in size) had to be adapted, beyond the polemics and resistances. However, that reform process could not do without the protagonism, dialogue and confrontation with the recipients of the reform itself, as we have repeatedly said and as it was reiterated a year ago in the reform of the popular banks. That's how it was. The first challenge came from here and the first challenge won was this: a wide internal debate, concrete proposals, verification of compliance with the increasingly homologating norms of the Banking Union and international accounting standards, close political and technical confrontation with the Bank of Italy and the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The Federcasse National Council should be given credit for having approved the reform scheme in less than five months. From these preliminary considerations we could summarize some specific points on which the self-reform has been built: freedom of enterprise based on capacity and responsibility; self-help; mutuality; subsidiarity; participation and protagonism of communities and territories; democratic control by members. The essential facility had already been accepted in the decree-law issued by the Government on 10 February, then enriched and made more balanced by the political and parliamentary debate, transposed by the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies with the important changes made regarding the new way out, the indivisible reserves and, in particular, the securitisation. Today it can be said that those points of self-reform have all been substantially accepted. I do not say this, but the self-reform actors themselves support it and those who are not conditioned by political exploitation, and that is what interests us. The result is a legal model that is inspired by a very precise cultural approach, summarized in those points mentioned above, which will see the birth of a new reality in many respects: a cooperative banking group led by a parent company (a bank that will have the form of joint stock companies) at the service of its shareholders, the cooperative banks with prevailing mutuality. This is an innovative form of banking group that will regulate relations with individual cooperative credit banks on the basis of a cohesion agreement. Each cooperative credit bank will remain a cooperative with a dominant mutuality (i.e. it will erode credit mainly to its members), with its own banking license and its own board of directors elected by the shareholders' meeting. At least 70 percent of the profits will have to go to reserve indivisible. 95 percent of the total credits will be paid to families and businesses in the territory and the savings of the community will be reinvested in the community itself. Each cooperative credit bank will be linked to the group through a system of so-called cross-guarantees (form of solidarity that combines with the concepts of responsibility and sharing). It will retain its graduated autonomy on the basis of its capacity. The less risky it will be, according to objectively measurable parameters, and the greater the spaces of autonomy in the planning and management of the specific mission in the territory. In short, it is a form of integrated cohesion, entirely original, in the Italian business world and, probably, also in the European one that makes this reform a fundamental and indispensable virtuous step in the reform process of our country. In conclusion, the solution sought is the ability of the whole system to develop a strong market orientation, a transparent practice of competition and a precise strategic strengthening. In this sense, the challenge is first of all business, i.e. vision and management, customer satisfaction and innovation in services. These objectives can be achieved if companies remain sound and capitalised, a necessary and indispensable condition for a good investment policy. Colleagues, for these reasons the PD Group will renew its confidence in the Government by strongly supporting this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, since the Conference of Leaders has agreed that it will start at 5 p.m., I will suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 4.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u110	I refer to the vote on the single article of bill No. 2298 of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 18 of 14 February 2016, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Stefani is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Stefani. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amato, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Auricchio Barani, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Broglia, Pubblic, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Anna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giacomo, Filippini, Diringo, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Stefano Fabbri, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Fevero, Fevero, Fedeli, Ferrara, Elcino, Fevero, Feveri, Feveri, Fia There are no senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Aracri, Arrigoni, Augello Barozzino, Bellot, Bernini, Bertacco, Bignami, Bisinella, Blundo, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Caridi, Casaletto, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolilino, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagna, Consiglio, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pietro, De Pinio, De Siano, De Siano, Giovanardi, Giuro, Divina, Donno Fasano, Fasano, Fazzone, Ferrara Mario, Floris Gaetti, Galimberti, Gasparri, Giarrusso, Gibino, Giovanardino, Giovanardino, Giovani, Giovani, Giovani, Giovani, Giovani, Giovani, Giovani, Giovanardi, Giovani, Giovani, Giovani, Giovani, Giovani, Gio, Giovanardi, Giori, Giori, Giori, Giorelli, Giorelli. The Senator abstains: Mastrangeli. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2298, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 18 of 14 February 2016, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 278 Senators voting 277 Majority 139 Favourites 171 Contrars 105 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 18. I suspend the sitting until the end of the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups, which has already been convened. (The sitting was suspended at 5.48 p.m. and resumed at 18.41 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u111	The Conference of Leaders decided by a majority that on Tuesday 19 April, at 4.30 p.m., motions of no confidence will be discussed in the Government no. 551 and 554, presented respectively by the 5 Star Movement Groups, Forza Italia, Lega Nord, Conservatori e Riformisti. In accordance with practice, the timing of the debate will be those normally reserved for motions and for each motion of no confidence there will be an independent vote by roll call. The topics already foreseen in the timetable of the work remain firm.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u114	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, as I mentioned at the Conference of the Leaders, yesterday the 5 Star Movement tabled a motion of distrust against the Government regarding the trivellopoli scandal: a scandal that forced the Minister of Economic Development Guidi to resign; a scandal that was widely anticipated on 18 December 2014 in this Chamber by Senator Cioffi, when he denounced the inclusion, within the maxi amendment, of an amendment of the Government that was going to favor the interests of Total. A scandal widely denounced by all the press that reports the interceptions involving this Government and the PD in the issue Red Tempa and in the ENI scandal. I remember, among other things, among the six arrested for the ENI scandal is a former mayor of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Minister of Defence, a scandal involving the entire Government, is also of interest, as the amendment tabled by Minister Boschi has clearly been incorporated in the maxi amendment tabled in this House by former Minister Guidi and his comrade Gemelli. A scandal clearly linked to the oil interests of this Government, a scandal that concerns everything that is happening, like the environmental disasters that this fossil policy has caused in our territories, that this fossil policy, this policy of interests, this business committee has caused the health of the citizens. I invite you, if you do not know and do not know them, to visit all Italian citizens and families who are currently suffering from environmental damage caused by these companies and your business committee. The Government, with its ministers, should behave with good repute, should travel along its path with honor, respecting the Italian citizens and the Italian territory. So, if you really have nothing to fear, it is absurd that the majority want to move the debate to 19. It's a good time. The calendarization of the motions can take place immediately from Saturday, already Monday, already from Tuesday. Therefore, the 5 Star Movement absolutely does not accept the will of this Government to postpone the problem and not to come and answer in this House to the Italian Parliament, but above all not to come and answer in this House to the citizens of Basilicata, to the citizens of Sicily and to all the citizens who at this moment, in Italy, suffer and die and whose children are born with malformations! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We therefore call for the Government to come immediately to respond and clarify what has happened so that each of us can say what he thinks of this Government, namely that he must go home immediately because here the interests of the citizens are the last thing we are concerned with. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u115	Excuse me, Senator Catalfo, but I didn't understand what your proposal to change the calendar would be.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u116	CATALFO (M5S). I have already made my proposal at the Conference of the Leaders, and I have repeated it in this House. The deadline laid down in the Rules of Procedure is three days after the presentation: the discussion of motions could take place on Friday afternoon. You say Saturday, and then you schedule for Saturday or, if it is not possible on this day, you schedule Monday, immediately. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u119	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, as we said at the Conference of the Leaders, we ask that the motions of mistrust presented by Forza Italia, Lega, Conservatori e Riformisti and Movimento 5 Stars be scheduled and dealt with at the beginning of next week's work, i.e. Tuesday. Also because we had asked, President, when the problem came up, a few days ago, just before the Minister resigned, the resignation of the internal government seen and considering that it is the worst business committee appeared in politics in the history of the Italian Republic [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is a government of people who should resign at the speed of light, not only Minister Guidi but the President of the Council. We advised Mr. Renzi to resign immediately, together with all the Ministers, and to go immediately to a President of the Republic once again strangely silent on the important issues of this country. The problem, Mr President, is that once again Mr Renzi has shown that he cares about the institutions, that he cares about everything that the country asks for. Today, 54 percent of Italian citizens, according to the latest poll, are in favour of the resignation of President Renzi. The Italian State and Italian citizens are asking President Renzi to resign. Alas, Renzi does not do so, and as a result we are forced to request resignation with a motion of distrust from this Government. Mr President, given the importance of this subject, given that we know very well that on 17 April there will be a referendum on the subject of what we are dealing with, we are asking that motions of mistrust be voted on next Tuesday, so as to show the Italian citizens who is on the one hand and who, as usual, is on the other and supports this Government as always; a government which would not have the numbers, but which, as usual, is supported by the usual elected people in the ranks of those who are on this side and which, for a choice of "cadrega" is once again on the other side. We need to be clear about this, so that the Senators and Members of the Democratic Party stop going on television and saying that Mr Verdini is not supporting them. Even today they went on television and around saying: Greens doesn't support us. Explain, PD senators, thanks to who you are in these classrooms. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u122	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, someone accuses us of a serial excess of a request for mistrust. The problem is not this, but the fact that there is a serial excess of trust demands from the majority on government measures. ( [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] What is irrational in this House is the sequence of requests for a vote of confidence on the measures that the majority should be able to approve on its own, being a strong majority, and not having to theoretically need every time a vote of confidence. The request for a vote of no confidence that we have made is the classic and typical parliamentary instrument for deepening a particular subject, which in this case is particularly complex. It is complex not because of the scandal, everything to verify, not for the government to be sent home, but because of what we read in the first, five, six, seven pages of everyday national newspapers concerning members of the Government. On these events we wait for the judiciary to take its course, but we also read the interceptions. We have always argued that we should not be able to read them when there is no news of crime in them, but when we see a Minister-in-Office (then he was still in office) who, crying, blames his fellow-citizens for acts and facts which, however, relate to his government activity, there is a set of information that relates to government activity on particularly important issues and on which - I say this to the majority - I think that a debate in this House is more appropriate to this Parliament. Or let us go to all the media to say the worst things about Italy, the country, the government, the majority, political leaders, without ever having a moment of synthesis in which these topics can be addressed with rigour, seriousness and even real and concrete deepening (because in Parliament, theoretically, lies should not be told). That is why we have written a motion of no confidence, with the League in this case, and why we have asked for this debate. I think it is in the interest of the Government and the majority that this debate should be addressed. Of course, it may have a minor bearing on the referendum of 17 April. The subject of the referendum is touched on, but in my opinion, for those - the Italian citizens - who want to vote - and you know my position on the referendum - with a yes or no, knowing what happened in one case (which is not about offshore drilling because here we are talking about onshore wells), and what the government's energy policy is (because this is also talked about and this has been talked about) can be an interesting topic, since Italian citizens find themselves having to vote - if they intend to do so - on 17 April. So we seemed to understand and make a proposal that was concrete, real and in line with the premises I made, on which I thought the majority would decide for the best; instead it wanted in any case and still postpone. The problem is not the timing of motions after April 17, but it is that from today to April 19 we will spend thirteen days reading the newspapers again to know what actually happened on very, very important issues. We will take note of what will be written in the newspapers and we will certainly read other interceptions (because I think more are coming), but we will not know what the government's position is. This motion of no confidence was an opportunity for this debate to take place here, with the rigour that is typical of this House. Sorry the majority did not want this courage. I repeat my request, which I have already made at the Conference of the Leaders, that this motion of mistrust be analysed and debated next Tuesday, at the beginning of next week, because I believe that this is an act due to respect for us, first of all, and also for the country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u125	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, as you know, already on Thursday, two hours before the resignation of Minister Guidi, we asked you to consider quickly the possibility of a debate on the very serious things that were happening. However, dear President, I am a little disconcerted by the fact that it is almost normal for a Minister to resign and that the Government should not come here, I am not saying to justify itself, but at least to address the debate in the place of his Member. However, she did not resign for personal reasons, but resigned for specific facts. I therefore find it very serious, very serious, that the majority, after the President-in-Office of the Council went to the Annunziata on Sunday and said that so much was his amendment and that they were ready to come here. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] On the other hand, you change your position when it is time to decide and quickly arrive at the timing of the motions of mistrust. This is clearly an opportunity, also for the Government, to give its explanations and to submit to a serious debate and debate. No, then no! First there were laughable excuses, according to which we had just voted for trust, as if it were new here. Here we vote for two trusts a day. In fact, you could make a change and you could ask for prior confidence in all future government acts, so we hurry. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]] They encamped a laughable apology, and then eventually simply put in place, as always, an operation that tries to move everything to later, and you come here with the proposal to schedule the motions to April 19, to bypass the referendum. It is not true that the referendum does not have anything to do with what is happening and the elements that are emerging day after day, continuously, from the inquiry and that we obviously can only read and comment in the newspapers, but not address here, in the parliamentary place. The referendum has something to do with it, because the referendum question, the one that survived, is about what I think is another gift to the usual oil companies, because keeping the concessions alive, until the end of life, means making a gift to oil companies. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]] When there is an investigation and elements of a system emerge - what do we want to call it? A system of educators? - which involves the local level and the level of the ministries, for the continuous things that are emerging, still do not want to face things here for how they are? Should citizens, before going to vote, or not, know whether this Government pursues the general interest or whether it pursues only the interests of the few? Is this a matter that deserved or did not deserve to be discussed, at the time when the last days of the election campaign are being faced - next week -? Shouldn't citizens have all the elements? If the majority has these elements and can clarify that they have worked, that strategic energy choices have been made in the interests of the citizens, come here, face the debate. Do we or do we not have the right to know why a President-in-Office of the Council, who has made the moderniser, the scraper and the innovator, who has just entered the office, happens to fall in love not with clean and renewable energy, but with oil? Why, since it is exactly the opposite of what should be done in a spirit of innovation for the future of the country? That's what we asked. I believe, Mr President, that there is a problem of the dignity of this Parliament. It has never been seen that, after what is emerging, the majority, once again, escape and try to move and delay the comparison over time. But - I say this clearly - do not think that after April 17 things will be better. On 17 April, citizens will probably know what to vote for and give you a clear and precise signal, even for everything that is emerging. We ask, Mr President, as we asked at the Conference of the Leaders, to schedule the motions of distrust for Tuesday and we also ask that the draft law, which we deposited yesterday, be drawn up for the establishment of a Commission of inquiry into the facts that are emerging, be set up so that we will have the opportunity to examine - in a serious way - why environmental monitoring has not been carried out in the land of Basilicata; why all the minimum requirements are constantly being ignored; why has it been carried out what we consider to be a real attack on that land and which, of course, you also want to continue in all our seas. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u128	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, say a Latin adage: quiet, not moving. I believe that it is perhaps the dogma to which this majority wants to bend the parliamentary debate; but I also believe that reflections must be made and the House should pay a little more attention to what is happening in our country. The facts of Basilicata, in fact, are a red spy on the democratic system of the country. Now, that Rignano's little boy on the Arno tries in every way to bypass the political confrontation with those who could counter and prefer to face-to-face on a television now completely prone to the propaganda of the system there is everything. [[Applause from Senator Comaroli]] We, on the other hand, would like to tell the plutocracy that is advancing, that is, all these strong systems that continue to push under the weight of revenues; because the story of Basilicata, then, tells this. The little boy of Rignano on the Arno should know that the Basilicata has been administered for twenty-five years by his party: twenty-five years of raids on that territory. The richest land in the country with the poorest citizens in the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Crimi]] But it is not acceptable for journalists to prone to the power of that Region to give the image they are giving. In addition to the damage also the mockery. [[Comments of the PD Group.]] Mr Russo (PD). No. IN MAY (CoR). There are facts that can safely be told. Let us not shake our colleagues in the Democratic Party, because when we are given the opportunity to discuss what has happened in that territory we will tell you the stories as they are, which go far beyond what is being told today. I said we're gonna see some good ones. The dirty game that this system insists on is to keep citizens in a state of need, so the President-in-Office of the Council can go on television and say that those who are against development do not want jobs. If jobs are to be smuggled so that the citizens of our regions cannot be in a position to see the minimum trade union of their health and physical conditions guaranteed, this means continuing to steal, not only the work, but also the health of Italian citizens. On the issues of Basilicata, there is a fundamental fact that should emerge from the debate and that we will tell; but I would like to understand if it is possible to do so in due time, or we have to wait for the game that underlies this shift. What underlies the game? Get to the date of the referendum and hope that the quorum will not be reached. In the meantime, the President-in-Office of the Council, who should be quiet and not say anything, is campaigning for an instrument of democracy to be buried. It will then tell the public not only that there has not been a quorum, if this should happen (I do not hope so), but also that the referendum has cost EUR 300 million. The basic figure is therefore as follows: The dirty game that lies under the request to move the date is that, with this referendum result, the President of the Council would also like to bury the referendum next autumn. Don't worry, though, because we're gonna take that fight to the end. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , and I do not know today whether, with the things that the judiciary will discover, on the date of the next referendum he will still be President of the Council. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u129	Senator Di Maggio, your proposal to change the work is therefore aimed at anticipating the vote of the motions? IN MAY (CoR). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u132	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, in addition to stressing the scandal of seeing this House schedule the motion of no confidence on 19 April, then bypassing the referendum on drills, as has already been made clear by my fellow Members, I would like to point out to this House that a branch of Parliament is calling for the distrust of a government that next week will be able to complete constitutional reform with the final vote. This will happen without knowing whether this branch of Parliament still recognizes it as a body that can even amend the Constitution! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are talking about a government that is being called to this House to discuss a scandal that is before everyone's eyes and the deaths that it is causing by its actions in all the Italian lands. Instead, the Commission allows itself to go to the other House of Parliament - holding this House hostage until 19 April - and to bring home a constitutional reform with an enslaved majority, which everything can do except the right thing for this country. The government would come here; come and see if it still has the confidence and if it holds it in Verdini's hands, because next time it will not be a confidence placed on a measure, but a distrust of the government. If this government is being held up by Verdini, then it must go to Colle for a reshuffle, because the majorities have changed! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Constitutional reform should also bear the signature of the true constituent Fathers and not of those who are inventing themselves! You're shameful. You, President of the Senate, of the Upper House, are allowing a government that does not even know if it has confidence in this House, in the other branch of Parliament, to bring home constitutional reform. Shame on you! And you advance it, even on Sunday! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u135	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I thought that today we should discuss the timetable for the work of this House and not the Basilicata issue, because I did not prepare myself. However, I have the impression that, now repeatedly in this House, a sport of great exercise of mandibles, languages, nostrils and trumpets of Eustachio is being practiced, but that the only organ... [[Senator Crimi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u136	Senator Buemi, please come into this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u137	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yeah, I'm gonna go to the subject right now, but it's relevant. The only organ that is not used is our brain system because we do absolutely without it. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I explain why: about an hour ago we trusted this Government with a number of certainly significant votes on an important issue and of great importance for the economic and financial system of our country [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Ridiculous, Buemi! BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Now, these fellow Members are proposing that we return to the debate on general confidence. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I believe that proposing to further discuss confidence in this Government is absolutely legitimate, however, since we have the deadline of 17 April for a referendum on specific and specific issues, I would ask that next week's plenary work be suspended, because I want to discuss the subject of the referendum with the Italian citizens. [[Comments of Senator Crimes]] It is necessary to lift that veil of hypocrisy and fog on these issues. Therefore, I do not believe that we should come and train our jaws, our tongues and nostrils and our Eustachian trumpets in this House; rather, we must confront our brains with Italian citizens. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u140	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I've just heard from the senator before me that those who filed a motion of distrust are not using their brains. I appeal to the Presidency not to be interrupted: Senator Buemi continues to say that it is not necessary to use the language, the trumpets of Eustachio and those who have any more, but, when Senator Buemi insults the senators who presented the motions of distrust saying that they do not use the brain, I advise Senator Buemi to use the language to speak and do nothing else. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]] CRIMI (M5S). But what was Buemi's proposal?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u142	You have the right to do so. Say your amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u143	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on all the proposals. Under the Rules of Procedure, each Group has ten minutes. I understand that the Conference of Leaders was represented by the Minister for Relations with the Boschi Parliament. But why does Minister Boschi not have the face to come here and say that we are debating the motion of no confidence on 19 March instead of next Tuesday? Why don't you come and say it? Why don't you assume the responsibilities of representing the government in this choice? Instead, forward the thugs and this is not a responsible attitude.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u144	Senator Candiani, you cannot speak in this way about fellow senators. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Make your own political assessments, but let us avoid exasperating and further exploiting this type of exchange. SANTANGELO (M5S). Get Senator Buemi back! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There was reciprocity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u145	Once again it is shown that the debate is odd because someone is allowed to speak, while others are not. We have all noticed that this motion of distrust, which is characterizing the Government, is intimately linked to the referendum of 17 March. And it is equally clear that the government does not want the debate to take place first because it is afraid that the elements that spoil the party to the maneuverer, who, in the meantime, has put in place a series of diversionary maneuvers that are not escaping us. The exit of the 80 euros to pensioners made now, could have done it one or two years ago. If EUR 3 billion of debt can be made now, it could have been done earlier, except that he does not want to relieve deprived pensioners from their poverty situation, but interests exclusively put a diversion on the table to divert the attention of the public opinion. This is the stature of the statesman who governs us! Senator Di Maggio said well, calling him Rignano's boy. These are not statesman attitudes. To chat with their fans, as you did yesterday at Palazzo Chigi, what attitude of respect does it show towards Parliament? Rather, come here, in this Chamber, to answer for the work of your Government and for what your Ministers have done behind the backs of the citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] Don't start acting like a keyboard lion, because we realized that public opinion is manipulated by tweets. Let us come to this House and take up our responsibilities and do so today, without waiting for the newspapers, in the meantime, to put everything under control. That's what he's gonna do. Well, Mr President, the debate in the country is beyond maturity and I am very concerned about today's clashes in Naples, because it has been a long time since the squares were inflamed when the President of the Council of Ministers arrives. Today this happened in Naples too. It's your responsibility then. [[Comments from the PD Group]] that we do not want to discuss matters in Parliament, making them extra-parliamentary issues. It is a serious responsibility that you take on, avoiding the parliamentary debate, to please a President of the Council of Ministers who sends the Minister for relations with Parliament on television to compare the debate on mistrust to a football match. I wonder if that is the seriousness that distinguishes the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That's not how you behave! I repeat: we come here, in this Chamber, and we respond. Mr President, these very hours of Panama-related issues are emerging, and there are Heads of State, I think of Cameron in Great Britain, who are very embarrassed that one of their first-degree associates is involved in these events. Mr Albano (PD). Even Le Pen! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). They are even in such an embarrassing situation that they question their political viability. Here we have a government that has made family business a state affair! Borioli (PD). Your ally Le Pen family! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). That's what he's doing! The Boschi family, the Renzi family, the Guidi family and the Lotti family: there is one that is not involved in a scandal. We heard it again this morning from President Cucchetti. The confidence that you have proposed to this House today serves to once again favour a relative of yours in the government. This is not a serious way of governing, but it is a way of deceiving citizens. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Remember how his ministry, President Renzi, began by stabbing behind those who preceded him and be serene, because citizens do not forget these things. Shame! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u148	CIOFFI (M5S). I move quickly to ask for a different calendarization of the motion of no confidence. Since you have given us the 'package' of the amendment and the 'double package' to have the motion of no confidence discussed two days after the referendum, I would ask you to make a 'counterpack' and discuss it two days before, that is, Friday. I am asking because not only for what has happened with regard to the amendment that we have talked about for a long time, on Tempa Rossa, but also for other events that have taken place. Let us think about what has happened with regard to the procurement code, which we are debating, in which, by chance, everything about oil is excluded from tendering procedures. Another thing happened when a vote on which confidence was requested was signed by Minister Boschi. In that case, we intervened in this House by denouncing the false in an act and I would like to quote the shorthand report of the sitting, Mr President, very briefly. In article 5, paragraph 4 of the decree-law 12 September 2014, n.133, the so-called decree unblocks Italy, it was read that the agreements of two motorway concessionaires were approved. In the premises of such convention schemes, however, it was written that such schemes were approved by Decree-Law No 133 of 12 September 2014. You wrote, then, that the convention schemes were approved and, in the convention schemes, there was written the date of the act by which they would be approved. This is another of Mr Boschi's feats, which has brought us into this House a false act. So, since these acts are repeated, maybe the government really should go home. And so, with more force and more reason, we are calling for the motion of no confidence to be discussed. It's not just an episode. They're repeated facts. So, the government, knowingly, not only favors the lobby of oil producers, but also the lobby of motorway dealers, old and famous lobby of this country. Perhaps, since the government and the majority continue not to do the interests of the citizens, they really have to go home. Therefore, I ask you to discuss the motion of no confidence two days before the referendum, instead of two days later. Let us see if they have the strength and courage to come and debate in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u151	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, with the latest news, the government has been objectively in trouble. Correctly the oppositions are asking for a moment of political clarification that is due to us: it is due to us as oppositions and it is due to the Italian people to clarify the ideas. Now the link between these facts, which are at the origin of the difficulties of the government, and the referendum of 17, which the President of the Council is trying to hinder in all ways (many of which are unqualifiable), is necessary and evident. Therefore, for the Government, where it has good reasons and good arguments to put forward, it would be convenient to come to the Chamber and defend itself head-on in the face of the opposition. It is useful, indeed necessary, for Italians to understand who governs them, how he governs them, and to understand why he proposes not to go and vote in an absolutely noble act such as that of the accomplishment of direct democracy on a topic that interests them. For this reason, I believe it is appropriate to vote so that on an extraordinary day such as Monday 11 April we can discuss the motion of distrust presented by the oppositions and thus give the Government the opportunity to defend itself in the place of parliament. This is so that in this Senate, which is still a constitutional body and is still the Upper House of this country, we can deal with politics, make political accusations and defend ourselves politically: here in the Senate, here in Parliament, and not on television, where journalists forget to ask the famous second question, the one that checks the quality of the answer given by the interviewee.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u153	Senator Barozzino, you may, but take into account the Group's interventions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u154	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I am always very short, and you know it. I come from Basilicata and several times in this House I have brought the problems of that land: wonderful, among other things. I agree with Senator Di Maggio that it is being painted in another way, but we will have the opportunity to clarify this definitively. Therefore, I am very impressed that this Parliament and all the senators and senators are taking what is happening in my land under control. I am truly sorry, because here we are talking about the right to health that all of us should have at heart. The motion of censure must therefore be brought to the debate in this House as soon as possible, for example on Wednesday, as it takes some time to discuss these issues. I would also like to bring a question to the attention of this House. Why are you pretending you don't understand? I'm not surprised at what's coming up in the papers. I am telling you, Mr President, that I can be very careful about these problems. I have repeatedly denounced that in so many Commissions - fortunately not in all - we are not really discussing what is being proposed; the amendments are being debated elsewhere. I have said this several times, so I am not surprised that some of the amendments are being debated by telephone. However, I would like this House to be careful and to understand what is really going on, because that is the real problem of politics today. Colleagues, I who come from that land tell you that the people of Lucano are very serious and very attentive to what is happening and will defend their land with their nails and teeth. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups and the Senators De Pin and Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u157	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I believe that we are setting a very bad example for the Italian people, who are well aware of what examples to follow and what not. Above all, we are discouraging an entire nation from seeing its rights and democracy protected within these classrooms. In discussing the proposed change in the calendar, I would like to bring back to you, President, a 1972 speech given at the Military Academy in Modena by Eugenio Cefis, who was vice president and then president of the ENI since 1967. To the cadet students on that occasion he uttered terrible words. I quote some excerpts because they really are topical and tell us what we are losing, day after day, year after year, in terms of sovereignty and how strong the powers had already decided to reduce popular sovereignty: the betrayal of Article 1 of the Constitution. On page 8 of that text we read: Even in investment decisions, firms have attached secondary importance to national boundaries, choosing for new plants the location that could appear most profitable, regardless of whether it was located in either State. He adds: "The same scholars predict that in 2000 - 28 years later - more than two thirds of the world's industrial production will be in the hands of the 200/300 largest multinational companies." On page 11: "Until our continent is fragmented in different states, as long as multinationality can be identified with one or two countries of origin, that is with the countries of the parent companies, the initiatives of the subsidiaries of the multinational will always have to fight a certain climate of mistrust." And again: "on the limit can sometimes happen that some government proceeds to the nationalization of individual production units belonging to the multinational. But it is difficult for such a government to withstand the political pressure that multinationals can exert. On page 13, it is said: "It is very difficult for a country that is still poor and backward to be able to take political initiatives that discourage foreign investment. The royalties that are paid to the host country, - there was still no talk of bribes - the currency derived from exports, the wages with which the local labour is paid, are economic facts of such importance that the problems of autonomy and political prestige are secondary. On page 15: "We are increasingly moving towards the identification of policy with economic policy." And again: if state controls create excessive constraints on investment and operations in a country, the multinational company can still act by strengthening its activities in other geographical areas and disinvesting from the country where it feels too opposed. CARDINALI (PD). What's the proposal? ENDRIZZI (M5S). We heard earlier about a referendum that would threaten 11,000 jobs. These are the blackmails that we are constantly subject to on the media level. And we've had from the judiciary in these days, what are the blackmails and the co-interests between politics and government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, in the face of this situation, in the face of the collapse of the government's hypocrisy screen, we cannot go home. I ask that the timetable be changed and no longer move from this House until the Renzi Government has been able to discuss the motion of distrust, otherwise we are teasing the Italians, we are following a script already written decades ago, we are following a manfrina that completely emptys these classrooms of meaning, we are losing the sense of our presence here. I hope, Mr President, that you are proud of the meaning of yours. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u158	As there are no other requests for changes to the timetable, we shall proceed to the vote. I would ask colleagues to reach their seats and I would ask the Secretary Senators to check if there are any cards left in the seats of absent senators. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Senators Buemi and Airola indicate some cards included in the voting devices that do not correspond to the senator's presence.]] Thanks for the report. [[Brusio]] Quiet, please. No one has the floor right now. Collaborate, so let's do it first, thank you. (Senator Candiani points out some cards included in the voting arrangements that do not correspond to the senator's presence.) Senator Candiani, we know that there are the tiles of the Secretaries inserted. They'll take them off and then put them back in. (Senator Ciampolillo indicates a card inserted in the voting device that does not correspond to the senator's presence.) Please cooperate. The card's been removed. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u161	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to keep an attitude in line with the role you are playing. [[Protests from PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u162	You can't teach me that attitude to maintain. You have to keep an attitude that suits you. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] I'm proceeding to check the cards. I've asked for your cooperation and I'm asking you, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u163	There are tiles in there even though the senators are absent. Any workplace would be sanctioned. Only the Senate doesn't, and you control this. Do your job!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u164	Thank you for your cooperation, Senator Santangelo. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable of the Assembly's proceedings to anticipate the discussion of motions of mistrust to the Government. It's not approved. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Honesty! Honesty! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No choirs, please! I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to schedule the discussion of a draft law for the establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the events in Basilicata. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to suspend work for the whole of next week. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for the work adopted by the Conference of the Leaders and which I have communicated to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u167	RICHIUTI (PD). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to announce to you and to the House that I have written, together with my fellow Members, Mr Guerra, Mr Albano, Mr Migliavacca, Mr Rossi, Mr Cuomo and Mr Puppatoto, to the President of the RAI Supervisory Committee, Mr Fico, a letter of protest against Bruno Vespa. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The transmission "Porta a Porta" has always been the home of the trash, but today we have passed the sign: today we are at the TV lounge where the mafia is at home. In August 2015 Bruno Vespa hosted Casamonica and their lawyers; a controversy followed and the hearing of director Leone in the Anti-Mafia Investigation Commission. I asked for disciplinary proceedings against Bruno Vespa. Evidently nothing happened, so Vespa was allowed to invite Riina. If he could, he would also invite Matteo Messina Money; a pity that Messina Money can't go there otherwise he should get out of his 23-year-old fugitive. Let me therefore send the Senate a message of solidarity and fraternal closeness to Mary Falcone. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups]] and Misto-MovX), who this morning rightly complained about yet another RAI scandal. I remember Giovanni Falcone, Paolo Borsellino, all the agents of their stocks, and all the victims of the mob who are the best Italy that Vespa does not know, because he does not understand it. Vespa does not help viewers to know the logic and mentality of the Mafia; he is the ceremonier of the Mafia living room. (at 19.37) (Follow-up). Director Campo Dall'Orto has all the powers to cancel the airing of the interview, but from the latest news we learn that RAI will air the broadcast, promising that soon there will be a transmission on the anti-mafia. Mr President, RAI certifies that there is a state and an anti-state. Mr President, this has never been the case. I request the resignation of the entire management group of the RAI and the doughnuts Vespa [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , powerful enough to silence the innocent victims of the mafias, their families... [[Comments of Senator Paglini]] Hen, shut up! [[Protests from the M5S Group..]] the Forces of Order and all the Italians who fight every day with their lives against the Mafia.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u168	Senator, there's a limit to your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u171	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, although it is not easy in this House to practice calmness, I remember historically that our colleague Sergio Zavoli, who is a great journalist, interviewed terrorist Moretti, the murderer of Aldo Moro, a terrorist who has never regretted and has never dissociated himself from the armed struggle. I also remember Santoro interrogating Ciancimino about the mob. I believe dangerous and misleading, although I can agree on some evaluations, the preventive complaints, when no one has yet seen tonight's broadcast and no one has heard what Bruno Vespa will say by interviewing this gentleman. So speaking of negationism, as Mr Bindi did, compared to something that has not yet been seen, would be like accusing Sergio Zavoli of collusion with the Red Brigades, because he interviewed the brigadeist Moretti, who has always been the killer of Aldo Moro. Having said that, I also said today that I am uncomfortable in front of this broadcast and that, from my point of view, I would also avoid advertising the book and not so much the son of Totò Riina, one who in turn served the prison for mafia activity. But having said that, colleagues, tones like these of aggression against a journalist and preventive censorship are good in totalitarian countries, but they are not good in democratic countries. So I invite everyone to composure and maybe to give a judgment on what happened when we were given the opportunity, for those who want to do it tonight, to see how the interview that Bruno Vespa will do to the young Riina was set up.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u174	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, today in the Bureau of the RAI Supervisory Committee, we have discussed this matter, which we all find to be very, very serious. Firstly, because we have the precedent of Casamonica, in which there has been no journalistic work, but rather a work of aestheticization of the mafia, which we find also in the event of tonight. Not only that, we have a felon tonight, who served eight years as a mob association, who wrote a book about his father, a mob boss currently in prison, and who goes to promote his book in a public space and with public money. This is a very serious matter. I am referring precisely to the book that is going to be promoted this evening. Unfortunately, we cannot act in advance in the RAI Supervisory Committee, but we can only act a posteriori. So all you can do is ask - and this is what the Supervisory Committee will do - for the RAI 1 director to be called in next week's RAI supervision. Let them be warned that tonight, on the basis of how this transmission will go, we will demand the resignation first of all of Vespa, who must stop doing these things (we are all tired), and then we will also see to establishing the other responsibilities. We, as the 5 Star Movement, invite Italian citizens not to look at it tonight, because Vespa's operation is shamefully a share operation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I also want to thank President Grasso, who said today that he will not look at her. I therefore call on all Italian citizens to do the same. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u177	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, the subject rightly raised in this House seems very pertinent to me. I would not do battles and I would not associate myself with what Mr Giovanardi said, because the attempt is not to muzzle journalists. The scandalous aspect of what will happen tonight at Porta a Porta is that, in order to be able to perform such shows (now everything is show), these things are done with my money and taxpayers. The fundamental aspect of all this is the obscene fact that to do this you have to pay a fee. I therefore announce to the Presidency that I will present a draft law to abolish the fee and that the RAI can finally be on the market, if it has the capacity to do so, by transmitting services that it can obviously transmit at this time because of the gratuitousness that comes from public funding, which is practically money that is being taken away from Italian taxpayers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u180	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I would like to join, since I have signed it, in what Mrs Ricchiuti said and also in the reasoning put forward by my colleagues Airola and Di Maggio, also taking advantage of her role as members of the Supervisory Committee on the Radio and Television Service. It is true that the Commission does not have the power to block transmission, but it is also true... (The Senators) Questors intervene to settle an altercation between the Senators Ricchiuti and Paglini). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You continue, Senator. There are senators. The quaestors they're providing. Continue your intervention. CUOMO (PD). I stopped because I saw that there were riots. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There are the Quaestors and the assistants. Don't worry, there's no danger to her. CUOMO (PD). Perfect. As I said, taking advantage of the fact that you are a member of the RAI Supervisory Committee, we certainly do not have the power to block a transmission, but there is certainly an issue that you, as President of this sitting but also as Commissioner, like me and others, will have to address. The issue is that RAI supervision is a steering and control committee, and in this case, unfortunately, we must say that the editorial address, once again, has not been in line with the idea of the public service that the Supervisory Committee has approved to humanity several times, while an editorial plan or a journalistic service cannot ignore the address given by that Commission, at least as long as there is. I believe that this is a very serious matter, which should be stigmatized, not only by you, as President of this House at the moment, but also by the RAI Supervisory Committee. Unfortunately, once again, this evening we will have the proven evidence that we are trying to pass on to citizens the idea that there are two states: that there is not only the one issuing the sentences and that it recognizes the mobsters according to the judgments of the judges, up to the third degree, and that because, thinking of playing on the mediaticity of the news, we try to spread the idea that there is also another state, an anti-state, and we cannot accept this thing, neither as parliamentarians, nor as citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u183	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I rise to commemorate the anniversary of the 2009 L'Aquila earthquake. I am also doing so because I was unable to intervene this morning, because my group was represented by the group leader, Senator De Petris, without me, who was the first signatory to the bill to set up a committee of parliamentary inquiry into the reconstruction of the areas affected by that earthquake, being warned of this. I join those who have spoken this morning to recall the 309 deaths and 1,500 wounded, and I reaffirm Italy's commitment to the values in order to insist on the establishment of a committee of parliamentary inquiry to clarify the post-an earthquake reconstruction. L'Aquila certainly does not need controversy, but concrete measures, which guarantee transparency and respect of legality in reconstruction, for a territory that has been hit by this tragedy. To us in Italy of Values interests this; the polemics I leave them willingly to others. Contrary to what I heard yesterday in this House, politicians must get their hands dirty, but in a good way: they must do, they must not be afraid, they must not have personal interests, but they must work to find a solution that is the good of the population, without ulterior motives and without personal interests. This is equivalent to getting your hands dirty and even putting your face on it. But we must not speculate on this tragedy either, because we know that all this and the request of a parliamentary committee of inquiry are used to investigate, verify and evaluate. Yesterday another balcony collapsed. There are 37 warranty notices for scam, aggravated scam, manslaughter and false collapse. In the territory of Eagle there is a social crisis and an increase in unemployment, certainly because behind the reconstruction has hidden the evil. We must then commit ourselves, once and for all, to ensure that the money that has been allocated again for the reconstruction of L'Aquila this time goes to the reconstruction of the city, without further starving that territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u186	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like you not to be silent about the fact that this morning's celebration was supposed to be a celebration of commemoration and emotion, while it was an occasion for a series of very heavy appreciations. For example, my colleague, Mrs Pezzopane, called it a 'deportation' to give people the opportunity to have new homes in record time, when it is known that people in Italy have remained in the barracks for ten, twenty and thirty years after the earthquakes the historians. SANTINI (PD). In Friuli after a year! GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Friuli was an exception. If you come to the Province of Modena, you can see that there are still barracks three years after the earthquake. Indeed, Friuli was a positive example and we must take note of it. Then, this morning, we heard terrible appreciations about Bertolaso and we can't understand the relevance of these interventions to the commemoration. I only remember, in order to remain as a witness, that after the earthquake of L'Aquila there was self-denial and generosity, but there were also threatening attitudes, denunciations and perfidies; even tried to incriminate and put the bishop of L'Aquila, Monsignor D'Ercole, then fully acquitted, for a matter of envy and low shop politics. The department I was in charge of allocated 9 million euros immediately after the earthquake, which remained there. I went several times to L'Aquila to report personally the possibility of spending this money, but I was not told how it could be spent. After the emergency, a Commission with all the chrisms was set up and a ranking was drawn up and the winner, the one who had arrived first and had to receive more money than all to do nursery or old people's facilities, used the TAR, because he believed that there were few. Having lost before the TAR, he appealed to the State Council and after years and years, the money has not yet been spent, but not out of malice: there were and had been allocated. The speech made this morning by my colleague, therefore, seemed to me quite out of place, a meeting that was inserted at an inappropriate time. I also say this to the President of the Senate: from now on we distinguish. If there are moments of emotion and commemoration, there is the minute of silence, to which everyone associates, but after the minute of silence, to open a debate during which people leave and chat, in the general disinterest, also becomes unbecoming. Even worse is when a commemoration becomes a political clash, in which ingenious or biased judgments are inserted, absolutely out of place. I felt I had to intervene at the end of the sitting to say these things, so that even in L'Aquila it should be known that in the Senate, on this occasion, there was not only political controversy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u189	CARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reply to my question 4-05432 of 8 March this year to the Minister of Education, University and Research, Stefania Giannini, with whom I ask for clarification on the competition for the recruitment of teaching staff for the school of every order and grade, banned in February last year (the so-called competition). It is news of these days that the TAR of Lazio has admitted hundreds of graduates without a qualification. This measure of the administrative court will certainly follow similar measures, with the consequence that even those who are not qualified to teach will be admitted to the competition procedure, creating further confusion in an already quite far-reaching process. So, chaos over chaos. I therefore ask whether it would not be appropriate to cancel the competition, possibly proposing another competition divided into two successive stages, which clearly distinguish those who are not qualified by those who are qualified. It seems quite clear to me that this contest is a scam: you want to make it pass through an emptying of the rankings for the elimination of the precarious when instead so many precarious risks being sent home. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tell me whether this is what is taking shape is not yet another deception that this Government has prepared for those aspiring teachers who, after years of expectation and sacrifice, perhaps deserve a different treatment from what Renzi and Mrs Giannini are giving them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u190	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-604.ana.u191	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday, April 7, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.
