ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 3 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1917, already approved by the House of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Cirielli and others. Durants and others; Carnations and others; Artines and others.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u9	Mr President, I would like to clarify to my colleagues why I propose the deletion of Rule 19. The contents of this article were discussed in the Committees on Foreign Affairs and Defence gathered and fully transposed into the last decree-law on international missions, which was then converted into law. At this point, it is considered useful not to make an unnecessary reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u10	The remaining amendments are set out. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for deletion S19.1. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) I see President Casini's card is missing. At this point, since we have a moment of temporal reflection, we withdraw all the cards that do not correspond to the presence of a senator. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Secretary Senators are young and helpful and will lend themselves immediately. [[Secretary Senators go to the desks to collect the cards]] ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). It's not working. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The system's not working. It happens: he's a certain age. The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1917 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the proposal to delete S 19.1, tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Latorre. It's approved. As a result of the adoption of the proposal for deletion S19.1 referred to in Article 19, the provisions contained therein will be incorporated into an autonomous bill which will be immediately referred to the relevant parliamentary committees. The amendments tabled in Article 19 are therefore not included.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u13	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I need a clarification from Senator Latorre. We did this excerpt because he claims that in the decree-law on missions there was an equivalent article that had already been transposed. If I recall correctly, the financing of that article had also been included in the Stability Act, which referred to a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers that should have arrived at the Copasir. I would like to know from what this article is based: by the law of stability and, therefore, by its financing or by the decree missions? I would like to clarify this, because the issue is not very clear to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u16	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the problem of cards must not become anguish. The advance I intend to put to the Conference of Leaders, because this is a system that cannot work. It is not acceptable that a senator who goes for a coffee or pasta or has to take a tour for personal reasons after there has been a vote and while waiting for speeches or illustrations, is obliged to take back the card every time, otherwise he is accused of being an abuser of this House. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I'm not taking advantage of anything. This solution is not good, because there are no abusers or people in this House who want to take advantage of it. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] I put the problem to the Group Leader and the Group Leader will have to decide differently from what has been decided. It is no longer possible to go on like this! [[Live comments from the M5S Group. Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u17	Colleagues, I am not going to open a debate on pastries, coffee and other things. The President read his interpretation and earlier interpretations of the Rules of Procedure Board. The competent seat is not the Conference of the Leaders, but it will be the Council for the Rules of Procedure, or the Presidency Council, which may decide differently. As long as there is that statement by the President I intend to apply it to cum grano salis. We now come to the examination of amendment 19.0.550 (text 2), which seeks to include an additional article, which I would ask the presenter to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u18	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 19.0.550 (text 2) to say that, at last, after a debate that lasted a long time, we shared the opportunity to use this circumstance in order to be able to remedy a vulnus that had been determined within the Copasir, because, by virtue of the political movements of these months, the party of Forza Italia no longer had a representative within this body. This, of course, being Forza Italia, not only a highly-represented political force in Parliament, but also a party that has run for election and elected its own parliamentary representatives, seemed to me absolutely correct to heal this vulnus. We have imagined that we will do so through this amendment, which I hope will also be shared unanimously by the whole of this House, partly because this is a debate that we have held several times in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u19	The Government returns to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u20	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 19.0.550 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u23	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, although the Committee agrees in principle with the fact that all political forces are represented at the Copasir, it has in fact a conformation which is given by five senators of the majority and five of the opposition. The parties are not represented individually, but the majority and the opposition are represented. A snapshot is taken at the beginning of the legislature (in accordance with Law No. 124 of 2007), in compliance with which the majority in Parliament has its own representatives within the Committee and the same applies to the minority, both in the Chamber and in the Senate. The Committee does not vote and therefore does not need to have a representation or proportionality of the parliamentary groups, because if that were the case, the Mixed Group and all the other groups would also be entitled to vote. In principle, I accept that the minority should be strengthened within the Copasir (and therefore we will abstain on this amendment), but I do not think it right that this way of legislation be chosen for a fixed time, until the end of the legislature, in order to give the possibility to a single Group, which could also have new changes next week and therefore demand a further place, to have its own representative, or any other minority group, for example Democrats, to request another representation. Therefore, I find it absolutely irrational and illegitimate to resort to this type of escamotage to alter the composition of such an important and delicate Committee. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u26	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u27	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) I put to the vote Amendment 19.0.550 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Latorre. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u30	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, the vote of the Conservatives and Reformists, as already took place in the Commission, is certainly in favour of the measure, because at last it is clear after the thousand decrees to which it has had to attend and that it has had to vote, often with urgency, without fixed rules and certainties for our military engaged abroad. Finally, there is a clear regulatory framework, which defines roles and competences at all levels and, above all, guarantees our military in the action they carry out, for the good of the communities in which they are sent, as in Lebanon, Afghanistan or Iraq, where we have always distinguished ourselves, above all for our strong position of humanity. Our Group will, with satisfaction, vote in favour of this measure. At the same time, however, we point out that perhaps it would have been appropriate to vote on it after the events that could follow, in the next few days, if not in the next few hours: then we will hear, in this regard, the communications of Minister Gentiloni. There is, however, a real fact that remains unanswered and that, however, is a more technical fact, which we have also highlighted at the hearing of the generals present in Lebanon: I am referring to the problem of the rules of engagement, which are often not clear at all and put our military in the least suitable conditions to deal with the dangers, as has often been the case with UN forces. We often see massacres, but the rules of engagement provide that no action can be taken. The rules of engagement must be clear, also in the light of what can happen in the coming months and I hope that this will be done as soon as possible. I say this above all to the Government and the State Secretary for Defence, Gioacchino Alfano, because it may seem a secondary act, but it is a decisive and important act. The act of presence and humanitarian, alone, can serve little: without precise and clear rules of engagement, like those that have other countries, we could find ourselves witnessing massacres, without being able to intervene and often without being able to defend our own military, who are well represented everywhere they operate. This is the real fact: we are moving towards a completely different era, unfortunately marked by further and continuous tensions, in the Mediterranean and in other scenarios. This is the world scene that opens up before us: pretending not to see it, always intervening through warm cloths does not help anyone. I therefore confirm our vote, as I also explain our abstention on Article 19, which is a form of protest, which I address to the President of the Commission, Mr Latorre. By representing a group, even if small, it would have been necessary at least to warn us: this was not done and we abstained, but not against someone. The other political forces should have warned us too: that is the reason for our abstention. This is not an objection, but a reasoned abstention and in some respects resented, because it is not possible to imagine ignoring a group, which is still present in the Commission and in this House. I shall therefore end my speech by confirming our vote in favour. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u33	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, while we are expressing our support for this measure, let us be clear about the hypocrisy that has been done around our military interventions abroad. The hypocrisy on the part of the left immediately manifested itself, when the first important international mission was perhaps started, following the attack on the Twin Towers in 2001 and other attacks in the United States of America, following which the international community decided to make an important intervention in the places where international terrorism organizes itself, trains itself and manifests the maximum danger. The attack by the left was fierce, because Italy could not go to war. Times change, in 2006 there is a shift, the left goes to the Government with Romano Prodi and is in the middle of a conflict, which can only recognize and continue, but for which it is necessary, at that point, to change terminology. Since then, in fact, military interventions or international missions have no longer been called, but peace missions: this is a great hypocrisy to say that we do things, but in a different spirit. We know that an article in the Constitution prevents us from making war interventions of aggression; we can protect, defend national interests, but our appeal is to try not to become subordinate to any other world political force; "subalterni" is not a term used out of proportion, also because from the Arab Springs onwards there has been a flattening of national foreign and military policy on American foreign and military policy. We have been forced to free North Africa from dictators and to give freedom to those peoples; an important military intervention has been carried out in Libya and in fact we have given freedom to those peoples: the freedom to die of hunger. Ben Ali, Mubarak and Gaddafi were not great democrats, but they were Heads of Government who managed in any case to dominate the great instability of those areas. Our luck is that Syria was also to be in the American viewfinder, but Russian intervention prevented the disaster from being generalized. Today the Americans again ask us to govern the process of liberation of Libya (governing it personally with their direction) through the sending of 5,000 military. Well, the important thing is that the measure under consideration is approved before the Government takes any decision, before bad choices of subalternity once again towards overseas countries lead us into a conflict with a thousand aspects among the most unpredictable. We share the text of the provisions concerning Italy's participation in international missions. It provides for a new discipline for authorizing the next managements, but above all it removes an aspect that lately was intolerable, that is, the total will of the Government in the policies of international stability. The various articles of the text basically lay down the conditions for using force outside the national territory. It is stipulated that we will be able to participate in supranational missions, when established under the aegis of recognised bodies such as the UN, NATO, the OSCE and the European Union. We reiterate that we intend to respect Article 11 of the Constitution, which essentially prohibits wars of aggression, and we also technically establish such passages. In these situations, when the President of the Council of Ministers takes the decision (or there is the hypothetical possibility) of an intervention, he will have to inform the President of the Republic, who also presides over the Supreme Council of Defense that, if he thinks, he will have to be interested; after that, the Government must - and finally we rewrite it, because sometimes we forget the Constitution - give news to the Chambers. Mr. Undersecretary Alfano, you're not gonna bring any pain to what I'm saying, but the government needs to report it to the Houses and not talk shows. We have seen President Renzi announce what he intends to do in the matter of military intervention, not in the Chambers (place to decide whether to authorize or not), but even laughing and joking, between games, in the midst of an audience that is not the one to decide in such terms. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In fact, every branch of Parliament will have to decide whether to grant or refuse authorization. One good thing is what will be done with the establishment of the parliamentary session completely devoted to the progress of the missions. I would like to remind you of the amount or little that the League has done, which has contributed on this subject where, precisely to protect our soldiers, it has asked to include in Chapter IV, which regulates criminal provisions, that our soldiers are subject not to the military penal code of peace, but to the military code of war, which is a little more guaranteeing and directly protecting our military called on fronts that, while still being called missions of peace, have nothing different than real conflicts. We are pleased that the constitutional order is being restored a bit, partly because, after all the reforms that have been brought to this House, we have seen an excess of concentration of powers on the Government and the President of the Council, which are not in keeping with the dictates of a Constitution that can still be called democratic. Only one party will win the elections; only one party will rule the country; a monocolor government will be destined to govern Italy; that majority that is formed in the post-elections will choose all the high offices of the judiciary; it will have the possibility to smooth out any evolutionary process; it will have the possibility to appoint its own President of the Republic and will appoint all the leaders of the radio and television system (network directors and headphones). Control of the judiciary, control of the high offices of the state, control of the information system; we also lacked that the President of the Council could decide ad libitum, arbitrarily, whether or not to bring the Italians to war. This system was and is becoming increasingly transformed into what was the Roman system, which to console became dictatorship, but then it was justified by the moments of difficulty; in this case, instead, it is dictated by the thirst for power of a President of the Council to whose fall, as soon as he leaves, I believe that the whole country can only applaud [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u36	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, in congratulating my fellow rapporteurs, Presidents of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, Mr Casini and Mr Latorre, on their work, I would like to highlight three issues which seem to me to be fundamental. The first question is that the norm represents a step forward from the point of view of the acquisition in our country of a true culture of defence. The fact that we do not continually delegate to temporary mechanisms the authorisation of peace missions abroad is objectively a step forward for what we call the culture of defence. I hope, moreover, that this rule will be linked to those measures which allow us to reflect again in an appropriate way on the issue of investment and the costs of operating the defence system. Inevitably, in fact, you will never be ready at the right time if in time you could not plan the defence facility of our country and the defense network that must be prepared in connection with the allies both at European level and at the western level. In expressing our Group's favourable opinion, however, let me also consider the most controversial aspect of this measure, i.e. the rule which gives the Presidency of the Council the possibility to incorporate intelligence resources and those of certain special defence departments for emergency measures, where it is deemed necessary, in defence of national interests. This is a measure that by linking intelligence resources to those of our special bodies certainly makes a good service, not only to the culture of defence but also to the providential operation of our country. However, the draft law before us presents a contradiction. I would like to point out, in fact, that I continue to be convinced that the Presidency of the Council (and I am not referring to who is President of the Council today) does not seem to me the most appropriate place for the exercise of this real bridge of command for this type of operation. It is not for several reasons and first of all because the proper constitutional structure is lacking. I would like to remind you again, in this regard, that in our constitutional order there is a very precise line of command that sees the role and function of the President of the Republic linked to the Ministry of Defence. It is not because of the situation in which the Presidency of the Council is still present, which is becoming a sort of repository of all contradictions. Today, in fact, the President of the Council is asked to also define the appointment of all managers of all grades and forms, even local authorities for the connection inserted in the new constitutional structure and for the structure of our public administration. To delegate to the Presidency of the Council what is not believed to be able to frame in precise and exact terms is a method which, I repeat, is counterproductive for the clarity and transparency of the paths but also for their efficiency because, to date, the Presidency of the Council has enriched itself with so many and so many powers that it has become more than a coordinating body a real plug for the public administration. With this in mind, I would like to make one last point: that this is the wrong place is testified by the fact that the Presidency of the Council is the very source through which we have learned, thanks to the press, of a level of measure that was to remain secret, so this bottleneck does not work. So I believe, and I want it to remain in the proceedings, that in the process that will follow the adoption of this measure more than once we will be able to return to the issue because or we believe we have to change the Constitution so that it can be supported the nature of the measure itself or it is good that we return to a customary path that, while guaranteeing full organicity in the work of intelligence and special bodies, can relate to the line of command already prepared by our Constitution. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u39	Compagnon (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in declaring my Group's vote in favour of this draft law laying down the provisions on Italy's participation in international missions, I would like to highlight, from the outset, the importance of the measure. It is, in fact, a law that has been awaited for years since the legislative framework on this issue is currently established by individual decrees containing the authorization to extend missions and their financing; a not small aspect because, thanks to this bill, Italy will come out of that emergency management because of which our military have often risked to remain uncovered from the point of view of insurance and economic, even during the missions. Military operations in war zones now characterize the Italian role in international politics, mainly in the fight and prevention of terrorism. In this respect, Chapter V of the Act added here in the Senate is of considerable importance, which provides, in Article 19, for the adoption of law enforcement measures, in emergency situations abroad involving national security aspects or for the protection of Italian citizens abroad. In this regard, we must remember the attacks in Paris. The fight against terrorism, unfortunately, is not a battle that we can choose or decide not to fight. On the other hand, however, according to Article 11 of our Constitution: Italy repudiates war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of other peoples and as a means of resolving international disputes. This is why the main model of our action, a model that is recognized in the world, is that of peacekeeping. We enter into action to seek and build peace certainly not to make war. And to maintain this peace we are engaged in about thirty missions with about 4,500 men. Our country is the seventh contributor to the UN budget and our participation is particularly appreciated especially thanks to the enormous capacity for dialogue of our contingents. In this sense, the bill provides for participation in the missions of the civil peace corps, an experimental contingent made up of 500 young volunteers in the national civil service, and intends to enhance the role of women in the construction of peace at the international level. On the economic front, controversy arises spontaneously when it comes to the allocation of funds for international missions in times of crisis and economic difficulties. There are absolutely just and acceptable arguments except that, to guarantee peace at the international level and to quell conflicts in areas of the world where democracy is not carried out in addition to being ethically just action also responds to our specific interest in trying to curb in the bud the extremisms that over the years, and unfortunately still today, have threatened and threaten the western balances, from Al Qaeda to ISIS. Dramatic phenomena that put the populations of the countries of the Middle East at risk, slowing down the development of the processes of modernization that many of these States are struggling to carry forward, but also our security. So, missions that Italy must keep trying to do in the best way. And this measure traces precisely the boundaries to operate with method following the most just model. It does so by providing for a decision-making process involving the Government, the President of the Republic and the Parliament for the authorization of missions: it starts from a resolution of the Council of Ministers that is adopted, after communication to the President of the Republic, with the eventual convocation of the Supreme Council of Defense, and then transmitted to the Chambers. The Government's communications will have to be very detailed and also include the identification of the criminal discipline applicable to the individual missions. A process that will not end with the permission of the mission by Parliament, but will continue with an annual analytical report that the Government will have to submit to the Chambers every year, by 31 December. It seems to me that this also represents the proper exploitation of Parliament's role. Finally, on the economic front, it is planned to set up, in the MEF's forecast, an ad hoc fund, replacing the existing one, for missions in which resources for cooperation policies and actions to support peace processes also converge. And again: the mission allowances and the insurance treatment of the military are established, the hypothesis of imprisonment is addressed, working hours, rest, licences are foreseen and the figure of the councilman for the civil cooperation of the Italian military commander of the international contingent is established, precisely in order to strengthen this role as builders of peace and approach with the civilians that distinguishes the Italian action. It is therefore a timely and precise measure which leaves nothing to chance. A first fundamental step that removes such an important issue from the decree of urgency, seriously addressing a complex problem. Italy has always been at the forefront in the defence of democracy and peace and will continue to be so. As of today, we also have this extra weapon. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u42	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, before I go into the substance of the measure, I would like to express my disappointment at the course of this process. We started work in the Commission in June 2015 and the debate in the House began on 15 September. Yesterday, after about six months, we started voting on the amendments. I think that these issues, when we talk about national security, should lead us to vote unanimously or to the broadest consensus, precisely in order to give more strength to what we are going to vote, must have a serious legislative process. And I hope that issues of this dimension and of this importance will have a serious path. By entering into the substance of the measure in our examination, beyond any political exploitation, it is worthy of attention, precision and concreteness. We think it's time for our country to have a stable, precise and orderly general legislative instrument. In an ever-changing international situation, an organic framework law governing our intervention in international missions and cooperation interventions is not only necessary but is, indeed, indispensable to provide a unified, organic and structured regulatory framework. The result, therefore, is a more rapid act of deliberation, without prejudice to the responsibility that the Executive has before Parliament and the country. One of the most interesting aspects of the measure is that it will be up to the Council of Ministers to decide on the Italian participation in an international mission, which will then have to be communicated to the President of the Republic and then to the Chambers, in order to receive the eventual definitive authorization. This process, which by some can be seen as an excess of government power, is actually nothing more than the identification in concrete terms of those who actually deal with specific issues, within a strongly evolving geopolitical framework. I would like to stress the importance of the provisions on intelligence, which have already been discussed by this House in the last decree extending international missions (Article 7-a), which we have deleted from this process. Today we are faced with scenarios where military strategy alone is no longer enough. For a series of variables such as globalization, computer science, international finance and so on, we have moved to a real re-interpretation of the concept of security and, consequently, of the same concept of intelligence. With my amending proposals I had tried to focus on the issue of the use of biometric data by military personnel engaged in operations. I hope that the Government will consider this matter on a forthcoming occasion, because investing in intelligence means this too, i.e. working in advance with data collection. In this regard, I quote what I heard from the European Union Counter-Terrorism Coordinator Gilles de Kerchove, who stressed the commitment of the new technological frontiers, which allow us, in addition to the recognition of fingerprints, also facial recognition. The consideration of threats not only military, therefore, requires us all to deepen the concept of security, that is, the specific analysis of new geopolitical strategies. Politics is now intertwined with the economy, culture with new technological trends, security with increased communication possibilities. It is a demonstration that globalisation has greatly expanded the horizons and objectives of security policy, which is now more urgent and indispensable than ever before. No less, it is commendable the provisions which clearly lay down how to finance the interventions and by which economic treatment, legal status, social security treatment are established and what follows, for the personnel involved, both military and civil. In conclusion, Mr President, several times we are reminded that our participation in the missions is both a model from the human and military point of view: it is with this spirit and with these wishes that we in the Group for the Autonomous-PSI-MAIE vote in favour. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u45	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we are faced with a measure aimed at overcoming the practice of emergence in the very delicate field of international missions. Today our country participates in 24 missions and over the years we have participated in more than 120 missions. And we are on the eve of a military intervention in Libya, as Minister Pinotti confirmed only a few weeks ago. The final wording of the law does not convince us. We find the text a clear but insufficient compromise on a number of points: the authorisation process, the type of missions that Italy can participate in and, not least, the role of Parliament's control. We had presented in May 2013 a legislative proposal to regulate international missions, to provide for the timely indication of primary sources in order to restrict the areas of intervention of operations and missions with the aim of ensuring greater control of Parliament. This is necessary because at the international level a practice characterized by serious violations and ambiguity has been established over time, and our country has participated in missions with a high content of use of force, and has taken part, even by its own means, in bombing operations. We have also participated in missions in which the UN Security Council was not authorised for coercive actions by a regional organisation or agreement which is expected to be explicit and preventive. The text we are debating today and the wording of Article 1 in our view are unfortunately not enough to give strength to the new international law, which recognises peace as the fundamental right of people and peoples. It would have been important to indicate the type of mission: it is not a pleonastic one with respect to the reference to international legality, but on the contrary their indication would have secured even in the case of possible NATO operations, because - as we know - NATO must still act according to the United Nations Charter and so it has not always happened. For the authorisation procedure for international missions, we have supported the need to overcome the practice that has developed over the years and which has limited Parliament's role to authorising the provision of financial means alone, not allowing the ability to fully assess the coherence of the missions with the constitutional dictation of Article 11 and putting all the missions on the same level. The bill does not respond to the need for greater involvement of Parliament: Article 2 leaves the Government with the decision to participate in international missions and only subsequently provides for the passage to the Chambers for their authorisation (we say that it is already in line with the constitutional reform to be approved definitively). On 25 February last, the Supreme Defence Council met, analyzing also the military mission in Libya, with Minister Pinotti who actually announced the intervention, specifying that a military occupation intervention is absurd. Well, then, what intervention are we talking about? In fact, we must go a little back in memory, very short, and precisely in December 2015, when the decree to extend international missions was approved, in which the famous article 7-a was inserted, which introduces the adoption of law enforcement intelligence measures, in crisis situations or emergencies abroad involving national security aspects. In summary, this is the famous Latorre amendment, presented on 21 July last to the text arrived at the Senate. On 15 September, the act came into question in the Senate, but the discussion of the draft framework law was postponed. On 30 October, the Government issued Decree-Law No 174 extending international missions; the text was finally approved by the Senate on 3 December and, during the examination, the famous article 7- bis photocopy of the amendment Latorre was introduced, with respect to which we had tabled an amendment that had been deleted, taking into account the danger of that rule. In fact, this article can be used at the first opportunity to demonstrate that military use can be made in Libya without any mention of military action, but only intelligence actions; this is therefore a way of circumventing the vote of the Chambers. On the other hand, last Friday, the veil of the Supreme Defence Council confirms that, as part of a military support mission at the request of the Libyan authorities, the Italian special military bodies will be able to enter into action thanks to a law approved last November by the Parliament, which allows the elite groups to act following the chain of command of the secret services. The Government, therefore, has pervicaciously used the decree to refinance missions to circumvent Parliament's vote on military intervention in Libya and to avoid discussion on this bill. But Italian citizens - we are convinced - have the right to know the truth and to know if Italy is entering into war with its military; this will be the subject of the discussion that we will shortly be having with Minister Gentiloni. But we are asking, particularly Mrs Pinotti, if before sending our soldiers we will wait for the mandate of the UN Security Council, as planned. Above all, we have some doubts about the very words of Minister Pinotti, for example about the US raids that have started and that have already produced many civilian victims, as well as among the jihadist militiamen. Even the "Wall Street Journal" wrote a week ago that Italy had refused to allow similar raids for fear of raising huge internal polemics and feeding public opinion an opposition against the war, especially if there were to be civilian casualties. This is a very serious and serious concern for us, partly because Minister Pinotti has repeatedly said that, in the past, unilateral accelerations have not helped Libya to have a harmonious future. You are therefore constantly contradicting and mocking the Constitution, the Charter of the United Nations and the Italian people. All this only confirms that Parliament, on the basis of this measure, will not have control functions. The unified text provides for a parliamentary session through the presentation of a government report, but we have supported the need to set up a parliamentary monitoring committee that could have strong powers over missions and their adherence to the principles of international law, constitutional dictation, rules of engagement, objectives, results and acts of direction decided by the Chambers. The text instead confines itself to photographing the existing, choosing not to innovate as it would have been indispensable. This is relevant and relevant to us, because discussing the compliance of missions is a fundamental objective. Some political, military, geopolitical and geo-strategic choices made over the last few years have proved to be wrong and, indeed, completely bankrupt because, instead of stabilising some geographical areas, they have further increased the conflicts (probably also for how the missions were carried out), so much so as to lead the Minister to formulate the negative judgment on the unilateral accelerations that I mentioned before and that is a little euphemism to say that it was a complete failure. Once again the opportunity has been lost to present an international law to recognize the commitment of our country to promote the new international law, which repudiates war and regulates the use of force as elements of supranationality and for purposes other than those of war. We have missed the opportunity to demilitarise the profile of our foreign policy and to avoid the possibility that Italy will find itself participating in war missions, as happened in recent years. The vote of the Italian Left component - Left Ecology Freedom of the Mixed Group will be abstaining, because the commitments have been evaded. We were strongly convinced of the need for legislation that would really change established practice, yet, once again, participation in war actions and interventions or the use of war violence must no longer be delegated to international bodies such as NATO, by circumventing Article 11 of the Constitution. Instead, we should make humanitarian and non-war interventions a political priority for our country, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the right to peace of every individual and people, starting with the crisis managements that are open in the Mediterranean and in countries that are involved in these days by tragic events. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u48	I call on Members to limit the speaking time so that the final vote can be held before the beginning of the information provided by Minister Gentiloni, scheduled for 11 o'clock. Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and representative of the Government, the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) will vote strongly in favour of this measure, which, as the rapporteurs have pointed out, has an ambitious objective: to provide a unified regulatory framework for the sending of Italian quotas abroad, within the framework of the missions of the UN and the other organisations involved in Italy (in the foreground, NATO and the European Union). The scenarios of war ventilated for the current Libyan situation and the possible Italian intervention in the North African country make even more necessary a law that gives Parliament a key role for the discussion and the authorization of possible military initiatives, which, as the Executive reiterated, will arrive only after a balanced and lasting solution and with the approval of Parliament. The need for an organic law in this area was widely shared for a long time and recognized by all. In fact, the Italian Constitution does not contain any predictions governing the use of the military instrument abroad, with the exception of the provisions on the state of war. Neither are there any organic regulatory references, apart from some provisions of principle contained in the law on the ordering of the Armed Forces, nor does there exist any general legislation governing the profiles concerning the economic and regulatory treatment of the personnel engaged and the various administrative profiles. Therefore, to date, the legal framework for participation in missions is essentially defined by the instrument of the decree-law, which the Government regularly submits to Parliament for approval annually. This implies a temporary and uneven nature of the provisions and a great insecurity of the provisions, especially from the financial point of view, which does not benefit the operational planning needs. The draft law covers all types of missions that have been progressively defined over the last few years, from peacekeeping to peace-making, to humanitarian interventions, providing a series of tools for better planning of the same. Mr President, listening to your suggestion, I shall begin with the conclusion. Beyond the content and other provisions contained in the provision, it must be stressed that the draft law of parliamentary initiative has been approved in the Chamber of Deputies without any votes against. All this confirms that the need for new action in this area was felt by all, majority and minority. In the hope of the same cohesion of intent shown in the other branch of Parliament, I can only confirm the strong and favourable vote by the Group of the People's Area. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u51	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I begin this explanation of vote by reading paragraph 35 of the White Paper on International Security and Defence, a document drawn up by experts appointed by Minister Pinotti, which contains some of their views on the near future. I believe it is shared by the Government, as well as by the Minister. It is enlightening; it is one of the reasons why NATO is calling for more investment in armaments to be used in the so-called international peace missions, those which this bill deals with. I am going to read paragraph 35: 'Scarcity of natural resources'. Developing nations need increasing levels of energy and raw materials to support their growth. Competition for such resources could produce a higher level of international tension resulting in possible conflicts. More serious is the growing scarcity of vital resources, such as water and food, generated by demographic growth, climate change and irrational use of territories. It is the basis of migration phenomena and could lead to strong competition, even armed, for the possession of such resources. It is not just this hypothesis that has just been read that worries us. In fact, there are others and I would like to show you another passage, always taken from the White Paper. You can download it from the Defense website. It is to be read carefully because there are many extremely interesting ideas. Paragraph 211 states: The armed forces of the next twenty years will be characterized by a professional model, limited dimensions and the need to operate, often away from the country or from the parking bases, in conflict and complex environments. The need is, therefore, that of a set of young forces, numerically flexible, professionally well prepared and with a streamlined and well-proportioned staff structure between degrees, roles and specialties. This complex of forces, moreover, must have a high degree of "operational usability," that is to say, be suitable to operate in difficult environments, far from the sedentary locations also for long periods and therefore able to accept less constraints of an extra-professional nature, to be physically suitable and predisposed to personal sacrifice. This is the world you imagine and are preparing for our young people. We imagine a different future, in which we are truly prepared for peace, starting to convert our factories of war technology, creating an industry supported by adequate research and development, aimed at the realization of products for the well-being of people, for technologies that allow us to create that energy self-sufficiency or that tend to it or for an agriculture that covers our food needs and the exploitation of the immense cultural, historical and landscape richness of our beautiful territory. I would like to say a few words about what has just been said. My friend and colleague Mr Cioffi pointed out to me the other day that Germany, for example, first created the photovoltaic industry and then made a policy of incentives to plants for citizens, who bought German products. Italy, on the other hand, slightly countertrended, first encouraged photovoltaics and Italians obviously bought German products. And I'm closing the parenthesis. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Returning to us, I will be able to object that our country has no raw materials and that we depend on the rest of the planet for them. That is why we must protect energy supplies, our businesses and the means of communication to the markets, as we are a transformational economy. Here we come to another painful point: not only do you have a bad vision of the future, but you have - forgive me - also a bad management of the present. Do you not think it is correct to inform the Italian people about the real motivations of international missions? Do you not think it is right for citizens to know that our soldiers are going to war, perhaps in Libya, so that we can enjoy Libyan gas? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Would it not be appropriate to make it clear, on a case-by-case basis, what the real national interests are? It would be appropriate to make Italians express themselves on these issues. If you do not want it, at least let Parliament decide. But you do not; you want it to be the Prime Minister and you are also proud of it. You have put it in black and white: Parliament cannot even deny authorization. We believe it is necessary to inform and discuss without hypocrisy what are the objectives of every single use of our armed or security forces. Have the courage to say that, if you want to put gasoline in the car, it is possible that there are dead, maybe not Italians, maybe Nigerians or Iraqis. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Allow me to use the words of others: the desire to maintain peace or export democracy has historically been used as a rhetorical artifice to justify any kind of armed aggression. Rarely has an invader made an attack without loudly proclaiming his pacifist intent. Do you want to tell the Italians that some missions serve or will serve exclusively in order to be able to grace the foreign powers? For prestige, to be able to apply internationally at the UN and NATO tables (which we believe are bodies to be modified)? I believe it is time to put an end to the time of the "Ce" Europe asked for it, "Ce demands it by NATO" or "Ce demands it by the UN." Making a serious plan for the future, clearly setting out Italy's priorities, does not mean denying treaties or lacking loyalty; it simply means thinking of a different world and maybe this will be a way to convince other nations to do so. One last note: in the near future there will be yet another decree-law on missions and we will be engaged again on these issues. Same charade as ever: urgency, urgency, urgency. This bill could have been passed a long time ago. I don't know if you really want to approve. Mr President, I shall end by saying that our Group is abstaining, knowing that a law governing international missions is really necessary. We tried to improve it, we made our contribution and we tried to centralize Parliament's decision-making power, but you did not want to listen to us. Time Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u54	Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the final discussion of this important bill comes at a particular time that will see our country at the forefront of the Libyan crisis. This discussion comes in the days of the liberation of two of our compatriots kidnapped in Libya, a joy that does not mitigate, however, the deep bitterness for the loss of the other two and does not attenuate the shadows that accompanied these events. It is also regrettable to record the wrong note of the Premier who, while finding fifty minutes of his precious time to sit in a benevolent Sunday TV lounge, would not have found one to communicate the kindness of the mourning to the relatives of the murdered compatriots, nor relieves that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has felt this sensitivity after a few days from the tragic events. Having said that, we understand how there is a need, in this delicate geopolitical juncture, to build in Parliament a climate that gives our military, once more, the right perception of a united country, where they were never employed on an international mission led by Italy. On the other hand, it is possible to think of this eventuality because, while attempts to arrive in Libya at the mirage of a united government are appreciable, it must be borne in mind that there could be no more diplomatic results, because the more instability increases, the more ISIS is strengthened. In this scenario, we have been witnessing a spasmodic desire of our Government to assume the responsibility of command of the possible coalition, shouting to the four winds this craving, with the risk of making the country more exposed to retaliation. Of course, we are geographically the closest to that country, we must protect our borders from the risk of terrorism and our preponderant energy interests in Libya. That of the Italian Government seems, however, a desire for command, almost like an attempt to redeem from a foreign policy deficit and stuttering, contracted mostly to the allies, having become our country almost a kind of family collaborator of the United States, who decide for us if we must stay in Afghanistan, if we must send more soldiers to Iraq, if we must grant them the base of Sigonella. We have indulged them on several occasions, even on choices that already seemed to be unholy at the time, from the war in Iraq to the wretched one in Libya. If, in the meantime, they intercepted our President of the Council and still today, a few weeks after the discovery, there are no official excuses, with the Italian Government that is limited to docile words of circumstance. Perhaps, however, Mr President, they will allow us to lead the mission to Libya, to help and to stabilize that country, which we are talking about so much. Many thanks, but first we would like to better understand what will be the contribution of those countries, which are actually the main ones responsible for the current Libyan disaster. The war in Libya wanted it, first of all, the French and the British, and it brought only disasters and chaos, of which we mourn more than others the consequences. Before embarking on dangerous adventures, consider with extreme attention what, while appearing a due homage to the prestige, to the historical ties of Italy with the "bel suol d'amor" could actually be a poisoned meatball. Before making demands for command, it would be appropriate to understand what will be the share in terms of men and means of France, Great Britain and the United States, that is, those countries that, in 2011, assumed the bad decision, suffered by Italy, also due to internal pressures at the highest levels, to intervene in Libya, transforming in fact that country into a failed state. Today Libya is a serious threat to the entire Mediterranean area because of those wretched assessments and the endorsement to the renowned Arab Springs that led the Western leaders, President Obama in the lead, to ally in Egypt with the Muslim Brotherhood and Syria to sponsor, finance and arm the so-called anti-Assad rebels, among which also lurked the invaders who want to destroy our civilization. To these countries our allies would first of all have to remedy the Libyan affair, net of the prestige that would derive from Italy, if it should ever assume the leadership of the international coalition, confirmed for now only in words. We would then like to understand, in the case of war events and Italian command of operations, what will be reserved for those regions, that for geographical issues should be on the front line, as the tourist season approaches. Have they been studied, Minister, beyond the war plans, any benefits and compensation for these territories? In any case, the same frenzy in requesting the command of operations we have not seen to stop the smuggling of migrants, with its load of despair and victims. The government has continued to ride the emotional waves that have ended up wearying the Italian public opinion, driven by the risk of terrorism and uncontrolled immigration. We expect that, as soon as the possible intervention is decided, with the approval of the Libyan authorities, not a single boat will have to sail from those ports and that the reception centers will be created along the Libyan coasts. The lack of energy of the Italian Government in addressing the problem to date seriously has been one step away from complicity with the traffickers of men. You must avoid these doubts, that someone, that is, within the Government - certainly not Minister Pinotti - has an interest in maintaining this slum, for the criminal cynicism of those who benefit from the migratory phenomenon economic and political. In order to return to the subject under discussion, Mr President, our Group will be giving a broadly positive opinion on the draft law under consideration, which goes beyond the current rules on urgent decision-making, a desuitous way in which the Chambers expressed themselves with a measure almost always close to the expiry of the decrees. With these rules is defined a framework characterized by legal certainty and functional guarantees, as well as by certain economic cover of the international missions to which our country will participate. The text arrived in the Senate after the first reading of the Chamber, where Forza Italia has already made an important contribution to the adoption of a law awaited by many legislators. However, our Group will vote in favour of the particular regard that it has always placed towards the Armed Forces, especially when our military, to protect whose draft law is being launched, carry out demanding and delicate missions abroad. It is useful to remember that military missions represent a qualifying point of our foreign policy, all the more so in a time of serious and dangerous deterioration of security in the Middle East and North Africa, with a serious threat at the doorstep. The draft law in question ensures that the use of military force always takes place in compliance with the Constitution and within the framework of international bodies and commitments, from our country never failed, with a sometimes excessive zeal that should, instead, be practiced more carefully, in a way more responsive to our strategic interests. This is also due to the continuing cuts in the defence budget, which have been reduced to almost 1% of GDP, precisely when the threat of terrorism to international balances is more serious. In any case, with the provision of an annual fund included in the law of stability, the Chambers will be allowed to express a judgment on each mission through a resolution, an act of address or a law authorising the mission itself or not. In the light of the above, we therefore confirm the support of the FI-PdL Group XVII Legislation to launch one of the most important regulatory instruments for our country's foreign and defence policy. Finally, Mr President, a matter of absolute importance has taken place today, for which we must acknowledge the experienced sensitivity of the President of the Defence Commission, Senator Nicola Latorre. [[Applause from Senators Casini, Rossi Luciano and Vattuone),]] to have remedied, in this branch of Parliament, that inconceptible forced force for which the greatest parliamentary opposition force was kept outside the parliamentary body of control of the secret services; a question wearyly prolonged, delayed and postponed, no longer tolerable, especially at the time when new, just and important functions were attributed to the intelligence apparatus. This result, in addition to the commitment of Senator Latorre, has been made possible also by virtue of the activity and conscientious scrupulousness put forward by the President of the Senate, whom we thank for what has been done. We therefore hope that the House of Deputies will act as soon as possible to ratify the important bill that the Senate is about to issue today.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u55	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the mayor of the city of Ventimiglia who is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u58	VATTUONE (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to express my thanks to those who made it possible for this measure to be brought to the House after a long time. Four legislative acts have passed with several attempts, but never had it been possible to find a solution that would agree with the Government and Parliament. Firstly, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their valuable work, the government which has facilitated the work and contributed to the definition of a synthesis that will enable us to achieve a long-awaited result. Of course, thanks also go to all the colleagues in the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees for the improvements that have been introduced in the measure. The bill that the Senate is about to approve is not of those that we find on the front pages of the newspapers and that occupy the debates, but undoubtedly constitutes a point of progress for our order and for the foreign and defence policy of our country; this in the awareness that the framework of the missions has changed radically and progressively in the last few years, with repercussions already present and that will inevitably have even more on the policy of defence and on foreign policy. Valence and the effects of this measure are profound and important: firstly, as has been pointed out by many in the parliamentary debate, a regulatory framework is finally introduced that gives greater certainty and coherence to our participation in international missions, facilitating a greater deepening by Parliament on the necessary response to complex crises such as those of today and a better and more profitable interaction on the subject between the distinct prerogatives of the President of the Republic, the Government and the Chambers. In this sense is the fundamental point and, if we want, novelty regarding the unsuccessful attempts of the past and that concerns the much-discussed authorization process of the missions. A crucial aspect, where there has been a convergence and a balance between powers and prerogatives guaranteed by the Constitution to Parliament and the Government. But the importance of the text lies above all in expressing the lines of action and political culture that represent an indispensable option for Italy, the basic principles that guide and oversee our foreign and security policy, principles that we have followed for many years and come down from the second period of Article 11 of our Constitution and that are now explained in a legislative text. I am referring to our adherence to the system of relations and institutions based on the United Nations and the other organisations to which we belong in accordance with international law, and therefore to our choice for multilateral crisis management and to give stability, continuity and planning capacity to the action of the international community in favour of stability and peaceful development. International missions represent an assumption of responsibility for a country like ours, which has always been on the side of the protection of international law and boasts a very long period of commitment to human rights, for the multilateral management of crises and for the strengthening of multilateral organizations in a global scenario increasingly exposed to risks of conflict, where, among other things, we can well say that, if we want to be users of security in the interests of our country, we must courageously and, indeed, responsibility, be at the same time producers of security. Colleagues, just over a year ago, on 1 August 2014, this same Assembly finally approved the reform of international development cooperation. Even that reform has not been talked about much and this is also an extremely important reform, which articulates and defines the commitment of our country to affect the deepest causes of conflicts and in favour of stability through the affirmation of human rights and the dignity of individuals. Similarly, the implementing decrees of Law No 244 of 2012 of the reform of the military instrument and the definition of the White Paper of the defence, with the successive determinations that Parliament will have to assume, can be considered a true system reform and testify to the centrality, strategically, that the Armed Forces represent on the political agenda. I believe that these measures ennoble the work of the Government and Parliament in this parliamentary term and give a sign of the work that is being carried out of reform and evolution of our system. Colleagues, this historic phase sees an extremely complex period of crisis and our foreign policy must be able to change and adapt, also acting as a stimulus to other democracies. Participating in international missions is primarily, as mentioned, an act of responsibility; secondly, being there and expressing a contribution, among other things of considerable level, offers Italy an important political space in order to be able to influence the decision paths. It is in this context that our country has succeeded, with the Mare nostrum mission, to include in the agenda of the European Union the issue of the Mediterranean, which today led to EUNAVFOR MED, and the Libyan issue, on which our Government is working so that the political conditions finally allow the definitive launch of a solid and fully legitimate government of national unity, precisely because we have the awareness that the effectiveness of a stabilisation intervention depends on the political assumption. With regard to the Libyan issue, which has been mentioned and which will be further developed with the authority of Minister Gentiloni's intervention, there is no doubt that a concrete political strategy and a stabilisation project are indispensable, which must be part of a politically certain framework in order not to repeat the mistakes made even in the recent past. However, since the method has been recalled, I would like to remind you that our country, with the only exception of the mission in Iraq in 2003, has always moved in full adherence to international law and therefore in the context of missions authorized by the United Nations. A possible participation in an international commitment can only take place under these conditions and with the necessary institutional steps. It is enough to look at what has happened, for example, for our support for the commitment against the Daesh in Iraq, and for the interlocation between the Government and Parliament that we have followed, and we cannot fail to see that this is our practice. Now, there is no doubt that the Mediterranean and Libya are a top priority for our country. And there is no doubt that the jihadist threat in Libya (the growth of Daesh, the presence of Salafist groups that refer to al-Qaeda as Ansar al-Sharia in Benghazi and Derna, and the possible entry of other jihadist groups from neighbouring countries such as Sudan, Nigeria, Mali, Tunisia, Algeria, Egypt, Chad and Western Sahara) is worrying. So with regard to what our neighborhood is, we have specific and direct interests, but we are and will remain firmly incarnate within the organizations that have been our areas of reference for decades. The subject of international missions, therefore, is among the most delicate, calling into question sensitive issues such as freedom and human life, which require a very high sense of responsibility. The Armed Forces have become functional tools for international security and stability and I would like to further remind you that all the international missions of Italy have obtained unanimous recognition from the political and military authorities of the countries in which they have operated and that, moreover, our military have always been able to come into harmony with the populations settled in the various theaters in which they have found themselves intervening. In conclusion, I want to express gratitude to our military, without forgetting the tribute offered, also and above all in terms of human lives, by our soldiers, who was very high and who testified, in this respect too, the value of excellence that has always distinguished our presence in the context of international missions. The Group of the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this measure, which we consider a real reform, in which an understanding between Government and Parliament is strengthened and which will take us far, because we think that at the end of the parliamentary process, with this law, our country will be stronger and the Democratic Party, once again, with pride and will, is for the full international position of Italy, for international law and stability, in the awareness that this approach allows Italy that international capacity indispensable to address complex issues in the global scenario. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed with the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u61	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u62	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, awaiting the arrival of Minister Gentiloni, I suspend the sitting for a few minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 10.59 a.m. and resumed at 11.04 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u63	The next item is the government statement on the situation in Libya. I call the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's information on the country's choices in relation to the Libyan crisis is intertwined, as we all know, with the dramatic story of our compatriots kidnapped in Libya, which ended with the tragic death of Salvatore Failla and Fausto Piano. [[Applause. The Assembly stands]] We can only begin this information, therefore, with a common message of mourning and closeness to families. At the beginning of my information I will report on the elements that we have available, assuming that, after the first information that has already been made by the Undersecretary Minniti, the Copasir will be continuously updated in the coming days and weeks of the developments of a story that still presents many dark points. As is well known, the story began on July 19 at 8.45 p.m., seven kilometers from the Mellitah oil & gas complex, which is a joint venture between ENI and the Libyan National oil corporation. At that moment, a group of four compatriots composed of Salvatore Failla, Filippo Calcagno, Fausto Piano and Gino Pollicardo, employed by Bonatti, coming on board a minivan from the Libyan-Tunis border of Ras Agedir, was reached and stopped by two SUV vehicles. Armed men with their faces covered came down from the SUVs, some of whom would wear military uniforms. These kidnapped the four Italian citizens leaving the Libyan driver, who was originally from Sabrata and worked for Bonatti for about a year. There was no evidence of any link to Daesh's formations in Libya. No claim has ever come. Among the main hypotheses in progress, the most accredited is that of a pro-Islamic criminal group operating between Mellitah, Zuara and Sabrata. The Italian intelligence has promptly activated all available resources, human and technological, and of course any possible collaboration with the partners of the region and international, for central coordination and cooperation in the peripheral area. Constant was the relationship between intelligence and the Farnesina Crisis Unit. As part of the intelligence activity, information has been acquired from human sources and technical insights, but without ever being able to safely and accurately locate the possible places of detention. In the afternoon of 2 March, as part of daily land control actions conducted by the local forces under the municipality of Sabrata, a convoy composed of two or three pickups (of the type Toyota Tundra), in the area south of Sorman, was engaged in a fire conflict that caused nine victims, including unfortunately our two compatriots, who had been taken from the hideout where they were held together with the other two Italian colleagues, probably in order to move them in two different movements. In the early hours of the morning of March 4, Gino Pollicardo and Filippo Calcagno, left unattended in the place of imprisonment, managed to escape and reach the municipality of Sabrata, putting themselves in contact with families and with the Tripolin and Italian authorities. On the basis of the evidence, the four compatriots were in the hands of the same group throughout the duration of the seizure, changing, before the events mentioned, only once the place of imprisonment. For its own purposes, the group of kidnappers suggested that the hostages had been separated or handed over to other groups, which in these last few days proved not to be true. Finally, I want to make it clear that no ransom has been paid, that the release of the hostages is not imminent and that there is no evidence that passports belonging to Daesh's elements have been found in the hideout. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because the search for truth is a duty, the prosecutor of Rome and Parliament rightly demands it, but this does not mean in any way to endorse voices and insinuations that come from a context interested in any form of exploitation. It is in circumstances such as these, ladies and gentlemen, that Parliament is called upon to show the face of a cohesive Italy, which is close to the families of the victims, which salutes the fellow citizens who have saved themselves, who join the security apparatus engaged in the field, still in these hours, for the return of the bodies. A great country behaves like this, at least in these cases, leaving behind bagarre and biased oppositions. The seizure and even the painful ways of returning our fellow countrymen re-establish to our attention the criticality and danger of the situation in Libya. Five years after the fall of Gaddafi, the country is divided, fragmented, crossed by a high conflict and sees a presence of Daesh and different jihadist formations. In the face of this picture, I believe that Parliament must first of all question itself on the basis of our national interest. What is our national interest? Our national interest is to prevent the ongoing process of disintegration from continuing or even intensifying. In short, avoid the collapse of Libya; avoid a collapse that would turn that country into a powder keg, as well as accentuate an already incipient humanitarian crisis. The failed states are now more dangerous than the rogue states, said President Obama at the last UN General Assembly. Avoid collapse, then, and re-weave the web of sovereignty. We need a legitimate government, capable of reconciling Tripolitania, Cyrenaica, Fezzan and the enormous amount of militias present in Libya, to gradually regain - it will not be a few weeks' operation - the control of the territory, to drain the water in which Daesh swims, to counter the trafficking of human beings, from which the flows of illegal immigration derive, and to enhance the Libyan resources, which certainly do not lack. The objective of this Government, of a Government capable of starting this path, emerged in mid-December from the Conference organized in Rome by Italy and the United States, which then made possible, again in December, the agreements of Skhirat in Morocco and, shortly after, Resolution 2259 of the United Nations. We work with stubborn conviction to achieve this objective which, thanks to the Italian initiative, has finally become possible after a year and a half of the blocked situation of the Libyan negotiations. However, as is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, we have not yet achieved this objective. From the first moment, I certainly did not hide from Parliament the fragility of the path that started in Rome in mid-December. After all, how could a path in the region we are talking about not be fragile, crossed by a permanent and dramatic disorder? How could she not be fragile in Libya? Anyone who knows, even from afar, this country knows how complex and fragmented that reality is, certainly not attributable only to the two institutions - the House of Representatives (HoR) of Tobruk and the General National Congress (GNC) of Tripoli - on whose majorities are based the mediation and the agreement built by the United Nations. However fragile this, ladies and gentlemen, is the only basis on which to work. There is a majority in the body that, so to speak, must give confidence to the new Libyan Government: I refer to the majority of 101 Members of the HoR in Tobruk. This majority was prevented from speaking at the last meeting, which took place about ten days ago. Last Wednesday, the United Nations Security Council discussed in New York how to allow this majority, despite the boycott of extremists, to express itself in some way and we will support this attempt to finally give the go-ahead to this Government. Again, let us not be deceived: it will only be a first step. Then, other sectors and forces that are not participating in this process today need to be included, because the process needs more inclusion and solidity. Later, this government will have to be transferred to Tripoli. This is a challenge that, for weeks, the Italian general Serra has been working on behalf of the United Nations. In the meantime, Italy will have to continue its humanitarian efforts in terms of aid and - which the Government confirms - to continue to treat the wounded in the clashes in Libya. The legitimate government will make its demands and it is in this scenario that the Ministers of Defense, coordinated by Minister Pinotti and Italy, work for planning. We work to respond to any requests for security from the Libyan Government, nothing more and nothing less, in compliance with the Constitution since, as I said, there is a United Nations resolution which provides for it and, of course, we will only do so following the green light from Parliament, as the President-in-Office of the Council reminded us a few days ago. I am well aware that this obstacle course may appear too slow. I see very well the consolidation of Daesh in Libya. Paradoxically, it was precisely the recovery of 40% of the Iraqi territory occupied by Daesh by the coalition that pushed some element of Daesh's fighters towards Libya. Today, according to our analysis, there are about 5,000 Daesh fighters in Libya concentrated, as you know, in the Sirte area, from which they are able to carry out dangerous incursions both to the so-called oil crescent (I refer to Ras Lanuf and to the entire neighbouring area), and to the North-West of Libya. I remember the incidents that occurred about twenty days ago in Sabrata and the operation carried out the day before yesterday in Tunisian territory, just a few kilometers from the north-west border of Libya. On the ground, these 5,000 fighters are often opposed by Islamic militias, especially in Tripolitania. We know, however, that the danger of a macabre franchise of Daesh, that is, of local groups joining the mark of the so-called Islamic State, is an ever-present risk. Italy must defend itself against this terrorist threat and Italy will defend itself, as provided for in Article 52 of our Constitution. Moreover, that is why Parliament decided in December that, in certain cases, intelligence operations may require security conditions secured by the support of military units and such operations, Parliament will be informed through the Copasir, as provided for in Law No 124 of 2007. One thing must be clear: the fight against terrorism must be based on an extraordinary commitment to information, when necessary, on limited actions, on proportionate responses to the actual threat and agreed between allies. However, it is not from the fight against terrorism that we can expect the stabilisation of Libya. Confounding self-defense with Libya's stability does not help; on the contrary, it can cause dangerous spirals. To those who are agitating the threat of Daesh, which is real and from which we must defend ourselves, in order to invoke military interventions, we respond that military interventions are not the solution; sometimes, they can even aggravate the problem. To those who spin numbers of soldiers ready to leave, perhaps because Italians cannot escape because so fans everyone, I remember that Libya is a country that has an extension equal to six times that of Italy and that has about 200,000 armed men, between militias and armies of different flags. No, it's not exactly an easy theater for muscle performances. In short, the government is not sensitive to drum roll and will not be influenced by radiant interventionist days. The government will defend the country from the terrorist threat with proportionate actions that will be necessary. The Government will intervene, if and whenever possible, to respond to the security demands of a legitimate Government committed to gradually regaining control of the sovereignty of its territory and will do so by decision of Parliament and coordinating the Allied forces. The government will not be led into unnecessary and even dangerous adventures for our national security. We are counting on Parliament's support for a line that must combine firmness, prudence and responsibility. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE, AL-A and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u65	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Government. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u66	Minister, the 5 Star Movement Group believes that a responsible government is saying what it is and this has not happened this morning. First of all, you did not tell us why we are moving towards this war in Libya which, I remember, was the first country, for development, of the African continent, with 38% of oil produced and 11% of exports to Europe. Perhaps, Minister Gentiloni Silveri, because in 2011 an American official, a certain Blumenthal, informed by e-mail Hillary Clinton that the French franc in Libya would be replaced by a Pan-African currency. That's where the whole escalation that took us all the way here today started. You identify Libya with ISIS, but ISIS is, unfortunately, very often an entity that is used, precisely, for the use and consumption of international diplomacy. You don't tell us, for example, why in 2015 there were over 10,000 air raids against ISIS and there wasn't even a killing by terrorist forces. They have an irrelevant military power: they are the nothing that advances in nothingness, as some analysts are saying. Probably, believing that ISIS is a military danger, such a destabilising danger to the West, is like believing that a mayor who has never worked in his life can climb the first party of Italy and become President of the Council. Of course, if you believe that, you'll probably believe that one too! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But if you don't tell us what ISIS is, I'll tell you. I've set up a map of ISIS, here it is. As you can see from the map that I am showing you, dear Minister, ISIS borders in the North with the Mediterranean, but also with Great Britain and France, and a little (little) with Italy; in the North-East, instead, it borders with Russia, Iran, Syria, Iraq, Egypt and China; in the East it borders with BP, TOTAL, ENI, Repsol, Wintershall and Occidental. [[Laughter of the M5S Group]] ; South is bordered by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar and the Arab Emirates; West is bordered by the United States, of course; South-West, on the other hand, is bordered by five billion Italian investments lost, 140 billion income immediately after the war and 500 billion in the medium term; South-East, finally, borders with about three billion annual exports of Italian weapons, only of Italian weapons. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What is the future of Libya? The future of Libya is already marked, we all know that. The future of Libya is the one that shows the second map that I have prepared and that I show you. You will divide it into three parts: Tripolitania to Italy; Cyrenaica to Great Britain and Fezzan to France. This is the future of Libya. That's what she had to tell us, because it's already written. I mean that Italy has an extraordinary political irrelevance, never like in these years. There was no fine on the part of the U.S. Government for the interceptions of Berlusconi, the famous Berlusconi-gate: you were not even able to make an apology! The sending of 5,000 soldiers was the Minister who is sitting next to you who announced it first, certainly not Phillips, the U.S. state official. Renzi didn't even know that the four workers were in Libya regularly, so you don't even know what's going on at diplomatic level. Nor do you tell us why the Chinese, French, British and American ships that are operating in the Mediterranean do not collect the boats of immigrants, but we continue to collect them. Perhaps because it has already been decided - and you are already preparing to ensure it in a supine way - that Greece and Italy will manage the humanitarian crisis. I shall conclude, President, with a quote from the real Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs, namely the CEO of ENI, Claudio Descalzi. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On April 6, 2015, Descalzi said: I see oil on the horizon at $70-80 a barrel, but it serves Libya united. This is your great mirage! Well, then, I give you a tip: prepare your speeches by force of opposition and start sending your resumes to ENI and Finmeccanica, because, as for the Libyans, even for you the time available is not infinite. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u67	Colleagues, we greet students, students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education - Croce-Aleramo in Rome, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, in our view, the Minister wanted to begin this morning by recalling the dramatic events of our fellow countrymen. In the face of that dramatic affair, as parliamentarians of opposition we are honored to declare ourselves more than sensitive to the words of the Minister when he calls on the parliamentary opposition to write on this occasion pages of solidarity and composure. Let us try to do so in the context of a distinction of feelings. We feel a legitimate bitterness for the two compatriots who did not make it and we are not ashamed to feel a legitimate satisfaction for the two compatriots who did it. Having said that, today we hope that this obnoxious blackmail - I deliberately use this expression and I believe in that - will end as soon as possible on the return of the bodies of the two compatriots. This blackmail on the return of the bodies, which has been going on for a week, seems obnoxious to us. And we consider it improper that a Government willing to use, in political and diplomatic terms, the expression "ricacotto" in relation to this or that political affair, linked to Turkish President Erdogan, does not use this expression in relation to the return of the bodies of the two compatriots. As the Minister rightly said, this morning Parliament must ask itself what the national interest is and where it is in the very complicated Libyan affair. I also found your reference to that image - I think of President Obama - that failed states are now more dangerous than rogue states, that is, they themselves are rogue states. In this regard, we must be careful, because Libya is originally a failed state. President Casini will remember when in the Foreign Affairs Committee we listened to President Prodi, very prepared on the distribution and composition of the Libyan tribes, because he was then aspiring to a UN position that he did not then have: it is clear that Libya, as a state, is a failure from the outset. Gheddaphism was the projection of a very strong tribe. Minister, allow me then, from this point of view, not to share at all the views and the Italian hope of a re-establishment of a State starting from the Commission and a national state that needs to allow the majority of the 101 Members to express themselves. This is an expression of the UN Security Council and not only of Italy, but it is not so. The government is not the factor in the factors of the states. I would prefer that you have used a different expression: we do not allow a majority to be expressed and we do not allow a Parliament or a segment of Parliament to be expressed, and then we aspire to a Libyan parliamentarism, from Tobruk to Tripoli. It's his image. But this parliamentaryism, in Libyan and Middle East history, is really very precarious and very fragile. Therefore, on the fragility of a path that you yourself defined as such, that of the Rome Conference in mid-December, together with the Americans, so many expectations, so many common places and so many banalities, even onusian. From this point of view, Italy's attitude has always been a loyalty to the limits of servility towards the United Nations. But the United Nations is making more and more mistakes in this trajectory of failed states. On the passion for the numismatic possessions of the Spanish diplomat I do not want moralistically incrudeliar, but on the part of the United Nations there are only references of pacifistic banality and not real and serious politicians. Moreover, just as I hope that the opposition will manifest its composure - and we are trying to do so - it has not given any composure to the Senate's work yesterday and today, and certainly not because of you, Minister. But how do we have your information on Libya on the agenda and advance the examination of the bill on international missions? In fact, we have asked for the agenda to be reversed with the other measure under consideration. This is an insult to good taste, common sense and his majesty parliamentaryism. It seems to me that Mr Tarquinio pointed out earlier in his explanation of vote that the problem of the rules of engagement remains more open than ever before. The problem - as Senator Mauro intelligently said - is the institutional construction of the relationship between the governability of the secret services and the institutions, starting with that Supreme Council of Defense which was in some way certainly bypassed by the parliamentary procedure and, if I can make a trial to the intentions, by the political terror of the PD colleagues to open the miserable diatribe of the constitutionality of peace and war, a frankly painful story dating back to the American intervention in Iraq. Let us leave those expressions for which we are for peace without ourselves and without but to the merciful messages of the Pope. It is a disgrace to pretend to address in the parliamentary classrooms questions of constitutionalism of governments and of the relationship with Parliament without itself and without but. Our feeling was, therefore, that the procedure wanted to be bypassed, because in the current legislature there is that supreme good constituted by the unity of the Democratic Party senatorial group, which I may also consider desirable, but which cannot go to the detriment of the freedoms of other parliamentarians and the ways in which they proceed in the work. These are considerations that do not concern you, Minister, which have been struck tangentially by the matter, but rather by the presidency of the Senate. I must also say that in this sense, regardless of what happened, I can only appreciate his lexical expression that I, an old Joelian, like very much: this is not a Government of radiant interventionist days. In the country's history, the radiant days imply the most secular moment of the attack on Parliament, other than 1922. It's a dark page. We went to war without going through Parliament. Anti-Jelictism saw my loved ones united: Albertini, the director of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), sent by the squadronists of D'Annunzio; Einaudi and Salvemini. It was very wrong and, therefore, every political consideration of prudence is well accepted. However, Minister, what we cannot accept is that in the Italian foreign policy of recent years we have seen two exaggerated protagonists. One is that of the United Nations, on the basis of what I said earlier, and the other - without the scandalistic moralism of the colleague of the 5 Star Movement - is the National Hydrocarbon Authority, which plays an exaggerated role in the Farnesina.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u69	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u70	Comrade (CoR). The story of the Iranian President's visit was, from this point of view, unsmelling. And we would also have liked that in this week - or as soon as possible - you, Minister, had brought us a parliamentary clarification on the resignation (by now a week ago) of a summit of the Italian administration. Otherwise, the polemics about the secret decree or not take place in a context of anti-parliamentaryism that frankly leaves alone that call, which honors it, to avoid any mirage of radioous days. [[Applause from the CoR and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and Senator Albertini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u71	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u72	Mr Gentiloni Silveri, I listened to your speech and did not come to the House with a text that had already been prepared, because I wanted to understand from your words what the reasoning could be to be developed here and to be shared with my colleagues. I took some notes. You have spoken some words on which it is necessary to return and reflect, after having paid homage to the memory of Failla and Piano and rejoiced, as far as possible in such sad and dramatic moments, for Pollicardo and Calcagno. You said that the Copasir has been constantly updated and will also be updated in the coming weeks. This is a fact that I can confirm and that is important for the relationships that are created on such sensitive issues. You have done an exact reconstruction in this House, but it is not complete: the most important steps are still to be understood, identified and represented within a body that is called upon to deal with such sensitive issues and that does so - I want to say this to this House, because it is thanks to everyone - in a very complex and serious way. And it does this because it has also built a certain kind of relationship of trust - let us call it that - that is not that of the majority towards the Government, but it is the trust above all personal regarding the information that must be transferred and their confidentiality. It is therefore necessary that the too many shadows that remain to be clarified be clarified as soon as possible. Today we will have the hearing of Minister Pinotti and next week you will come and the director of the Agency for External Services will come. On that occasion (not in three or four months) we would like to have answers and see the shadows unravel. I would not, in fact, like the passage of time, forget the issue and - as is unfortunately happening for Regeni - we start to move from the first page, where the title is effective and the news still arouses the interest of the public, the seventh, the eighth and then the ninth pages of the newspapers. It's not the time to erase things. It must be a serious government that makes it clear that important events, regardless of their urgency, remain so. Therefore, the determination of what happened, regarding both Regeni and the situation above all of Fairy and Plan, but also of Pollicardo and Calcagno, must always be considered important, even if someone will say that it is no longer urgent. One thing is urgency and one thing is importance. You rightly pointed out the painful way in which the remains of our two poor compatriots returned. Perhaps that is another point on which to think. We are discussing with self-legitimate authorities, who have not elected anyone, who have basically worn a uniform because they have found it, and who have said "from today we are in charge." And from this comes their unreliability, especially in the areas of Sabrata and Tripoli, which is also certified by the will of their legislative Assembly - it is difficult to call it Parliament and also the term Legislative Assembly is a hyperbola - which has already made it clear that it does not want the government of national unity. Moreover, we know that the Tobruk government, which we recognize and which the international community recognizes, is a government whose present composition, resulting from the proposal put forward by the German mediator, is unlikely to give a positive opinion by having many reservations. And I'm not revealing anything new: just read the papers to figure out what the situation is in that country. This reality should make you understand how complicated and perhaps even useless it is to try to reach an agreement on the Government of National Unity and, therefore, should immediately advise you, without wasting any more time, to take a different path, on which perhaps we are discussing at European level, which we need to take. In view of the expectation of the approval of Tobruk, which is currently being carried out, there is in fact a need to reach - let's say this - an unofficial agreement, but that nevertheless allows the western community - and not only Italy - to intervene in that area. Before, Mr Compagna - and you said so yourself, Minister - recalled the interventionist days, but we are not in 1914, we are in 2016. It's been a hundred years and history has to teach us a lot. It must teach us that certain situations need to be carefully assessed and certain choices must be made knowing that, at times, it is also necessary to take actions that are perhaps not required but that are right, if they serve to secure the national community, and must be if not agreed, at least shared with the different authorities. In fact, no one wants to colonize Libya, nor do they want to impose by force, against a government recognized institutionally, military actions. Among other things, having shared the spirit of the amendment tabled to the Mission Decree-Law in November, I agree on the use of special forces in certain emergency situations abroad, because it is the only solution to be able to take prompt action to secure certain places. We have not yet done so, and I do not know when it will happen and, if so, if it is communicated to the Committee that I am chairing it, but it is a useful choice, whereas that of the use of the military is necessarily a choice that must be made not by communicating it to the Committee but by sharing it at parliamentary level. And I think we all agree on that. It is therefore necessary to understand that the situation in Libya, which is now moving towards widespread anarchy, is complex, delicate, is becoming more and more entrenched and, precisely for this reason, a certain speed of decision would be advisable. We talked before about history with reference to 1914. Let us make a little less long leap into the past and think - for example - of what happened, underestimating the presence of the first nuclei of al-Qaeda, about twenty years ago, or that of the first nuclei of the Taliban, with the consequences we know. What is happening today in Libya, with regard to Daesh, is therefore a situation that, in other ways and on other territories, we have already seen and of which we associate the final consequences in case it is not accepted but - I use a different term - tolerated for a too long period, for a dramatic long period. For this reason the response given on such occasions was very strong and hard. It is true that Daesh's presence in Libya is strong, but it is equally true that the numbers you have quoted can be addressed and defeated if we actually intervene quickly at the level of Western communities. I repeat that and I repeat it. But it must be done, because the 5,000 will probably become 10,000 in three months and in six months 20,000. And such exponential growth is also due to the situation of substantial anarchy and fear present in those territories, which risks playing against us. The invitation that I address, therefore, and which we address as the Northern League to the Government, is precisely to assess urgently the decision to be taken. We do not want to intervene at all costs because we like war. We are concerned about what could happen in our country and throughout the Western world if we do not intervene. That's the real problem. If we do not intervene, in fact, we do not say that, automatically, our country is quiet and we can exclude any terrorist acts against us. The whole West is in the crosshairs. So, it is not with not intervening that you put your conscience in place. If there is no intervention, however, ISIS is given the opportunity to grow in those areas. ISIS is given the opportunity to do human trafficking. ISIS is given the opportunity to threaten and kill many unarmed citizens, who have nothing to do with war, even if it is a different war (in fact, so many are the micro conflicts in those areas), and to make them die without even knowing the reason. It is for this reason, Minister, that we must avoid further destabilisation of Libya, which would mean that we no longer even have control of certain situations, which are still under control today, and of real authorities; a further increase in migratory flows to our country; a widespread anarchy and, above all, an open door to the Arab world towards our territory, which certainly cannot be controlled in terms of the security of the people who ask and claim to enter the European borders, whose real intentions we do not know. You must do something immediately, sharing it with Parliament. The speed of choice is crucial to achieving the best possible result. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u73	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u74	Minister, in this speech, I agree with the useful premise you put to the debut of your statement, namely the need for Parliament, on foreign policy issues, to support the Government. I am convinced of this and believe it, even, almost a sort of moral premise in the loyal collaboration between the institutions of this country. Allow me, however, to continue with specific questions. To be able to do this, it is essential for us, first of all, to understand the strategy of the Government: what the Italian Government wants and what precise international commitments it has made towards the allies. Mr Minister, you will have to allow me that it did not seem entirely usual to relate to us, to the Italian Country and to the Italian Government, used by some allies. I do not remember, I have no memory of an ally country that makes press releases to say in what terms, what and how many weapons and how many people it must deploy alongside a hypothetical military operation, a country that is fully allied. And don't tell me that you have found this completely legitimate and incontrovertibly clear also the Italian Government. Why did the secretary-general of the Farnesina resign? What is happening in the relationship between us and our allies? There are questions that deserve an answer. The Government continually refers to the need for the birth of a United Government in Libya. Forgive me, Minister, but the scenarios that are drawn not only by the allies, but also by reference points for our reflection on our culture of defence, like General Vincenzo Camporini, to date member of the International Affairs Institute and leading man of the recent history of our defence, say far from it. They paint an already tripartite Libya, where they operate, in a complex international scenario, the allies with precise references to regionalized territories, (the Tripolitania, the Cyrenaica and the Fezzan): the French come up from Mali and the Anglo-Americans in close relationship with al-Sisi and Egypt. What role do we have? What is our role? What commitments have we made? Forgive me the irony, but I would not want anyone, in the presumptuous belief of chewing English more than others, to have stayed with President Obama a few minutes more without an interpreter and to have pronounced some "Yes, of course" too [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Engili and Rizzotti]] , without understanding what commitments were required of him. Today's was supposed to be an information on our strategy, but it has become the tragic information on the consequences of a lack of strategy [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] Because the dead weigh, Minister. And it is sad to see you abandoned by this Government, only in this House, because the Minister of Defence has also promptly gone away so as not to be reminded of the essentials. But how do you speak in an interview of 5,000 men? But 5,000 what? If there are plans from our major states for our international commitments, they must not become the subject of interviews. I would like you, Minister, to understand that this Parliament wants to defend its Minister for Foreign Affairs, to stand side by side with the Government in matters relating to foreign policy. This is why we need a timely monitoring, through parliamentary activity, of what the Government considers appropriate. Of course, you are right to claim the principle of a necessary political action that removes military adventures. But precisely because we must take political action, we must have clear outlines. What do you mean, 28 brigades are fighting in Libya? What is our role? Forgive me, but since the previous government has done activities of formation of the Libyan army, leaning on those who are today in Tobruk, how can we imagine that our employment will be mainly and more localized in the area of Tripoli? Of course, you can tell me that the Government has not yet clarified anything about this, it has not yet said that it will actually be so. And for this very reason, for a Parliament that wants to help its Government, it is essential to understand - if possible, not in the living room of a soubrette - what is the strategy of its Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] And, above all, the same message must always be given. As you can say: stop everyone, with me to the government we will not wage war; and then, the next day: attention, the Governments of Tripoli and Tobruk have few days to arrive at a united government, otherwise... Or what? What does President Renzi intend to do when he says "otherwise"? What are you going to do if you don't get to the United Government? What are the commitments made yesterday at the Venice Summit with the French ally, who instead feel even more free in Libya? I believe that these subtle reminders can be useful to the Government to strengthen its position, to maintain a linear behavior in relations with Parliament, with the aim of being useful to our country, to pursue the national interest and a purpose of general peace through which we intend to fully fulfil our role as reliable allies. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u75	Senator Amoruso is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u76	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in Libya involves Italy closely. There are historical, cultural, political and economic reasons to say it and, therefore, to call our country into question. I have not mentioned - and I stress this - military reasons, simply because any intervention in this respect should be considered in every detail and, of course, in the context of the international community. Minister, we have appreciated some of your recent statements on Libya, particularly when you made it clear that before any targeted intervention, and only at the request of a legitimate Libyan Government, Libya needs to be able to bring about, not only in numbers, a united coalition capable of stabilising the country. The tragedy of instability in Libya after Gaddafi's fall has partially disintegrated Libya. We certainly need to reflect on the many mistakes made - not only in Libya - by the West during the so-called Arab Spring phase. Those who speak at this time have in the past taken extremely critical positions, also with regard to the action of a Europe that, perhaps without the necessary dose of reflection, has supported actions (political and not only) then turned out to be rash, in Libya and in other scenarios of the tormented North African and Middle East area. But recriminating the past is no use. Today we must reflect - and the dialogue between the Government and Parliament, which must be constant and continuous, is essential - on what to do to stabilise Libya in the framework of international legality. Some commentators evoked the need for a kind of re-edition of the Marshall Plan, with which to support Libya's economic and institutional rebirth, and beyond. Making generalizations is insidious and certainly the historical and political conditions of today are different from those of Europe that emerged from the war seventy years ago. However, I believe that the principle is right: to engage the Western powers in a project of support and new development in favour of absolutely strategic areas in many respects for the whole world. Of course, this would not be an easy task, nor would it be an easy one. In Libya, today, fundamentalist terrorism of the Islamic State is strongly present. Libya is also the promised land for the myriads of human traffickers. In other words, we are faced with a country on the edge of the abyss, in which more weapons are circulating than people, but with the non-secondary particular that within it there are political and military forces who have interest in this abyss being irremediable and that Libya remains in a state of chaos. There is no doubt that, in such a difficult context, we must weigh every step and not give in to the temptation of adventurism. In this sense, the AL-A Group shares what was said in an interview a few days ago by the President of the Council: a military support intervention in Libya will depend on the demands of the Libyan Government and on a United Nations resolution. This is a requirement imposed by Italy's belonging to the international community and also - let me say - by the logical observation that, when we intervene militarily, we must think about the consequences not only in the short term. Many past experiences, even recent ones, teach us that this is the line to follow. Having said that, Italy cannot remain inert in the face of the disaster that is being consumed a few hundred kilometers from its southern coasts. The prospect that opens up before us is certainly complex. The dramatic story of Italian citizens kidnapped in Libya - in this regard I would like to express here the senses of our condolences to the families of the two victims, Fausto Piano and Salvatore Failla - was the mirror of the chaos that surrounds a country now without state from the end of Gaddafi, at the mercy of militias, tribes, criminal gangs and jihadists, who fight the territory and exploit foreign hostages for ransom purposes or for political legitimacy. Just the authorities of Sabrata (city in which, last week, violent armed clashes took place between Islamists and militias), who had the Italians in custody, claim their autonomy from Tripoli and want to be considered a strong interlocutor for the future structures of Libya. Commitment to the stabilisation of this country is an arduous task that cannot be separated from a complex work of dialogue and negotiation with the different political powers that control parts of the country and with the tribal powers that, after the fall of the Gaddafi regime, have returned powerfully to the scene. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that Italy's action, thanks to its geographical position in the centre of the Mediterranean and its historical and cultural role in the region, must also develop with increasing diplomatic strength in order to have a greater and more convinced commitment to the Libyan crisis by actors, supranational and national, who are part of the geopolitical chessboard of the crisis, but who so far, above all because of strong internal instability and delicate international dynamics, have had an objectively undetermined role. I am referring first of all to the Arab League and the African Union, both international organisations to which Libya is still a member, but also to various North African and Middle Eastern countries. Europe, the United States and Russia are in the front row today and that is normal. There is a real need for strong cooperation on other fronts too - the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is very keen to highlight an aspect that is often overlooked by international news reports - which must also pay great attention to the humanitarian aspect. Libya's political and military crisis is, in fact, also of a social and health nature and, ultimately, could lead to increasing migratory flows to our coasts. As soon as the day before yesterday he spoke on this issue from Algeria, where he was visiting, the Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon, who said that "If there is no progress at political level, the humanitarian crisis in Libya will be aggravated and thus security threats, including attacks by the Islamic State" will be aggravated. Minister, the AL-A Parliamentary Group welcomes the statements and steps supported by the Government so far. Italy cannot and must not turn to the other side of what is happening in Libya. We must therefore move within the framework of the international community at the levels that will be needed. Minister, you have said well: firmness, prudence, responsibility. This is the line so far followed by the Government which, in our opinion, represents the right director for Italy's action in the Libyan chessboard. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u77	Senator Napolitano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to acknowledge the Minister for Foreign Affairs some important points he has made this morning, which I believe are necessary and, indeed, urgent, given the not slight misunderstandings that have arisen over the last few weeks regarding the situation in Libya and also the responsibilities, tasks and intentions of Italy. You, Minister Gentiloni Silveri, have rightly started from the emotional call to the horrendous event of the long and ferocious seizure to which our technicians have been subjected and, finally, the tragic death of two of them. He has given us useful information and has reserved himself to give us more, since there is still a lot to dig into in that story. Above all, as it was natural and correct, she drew inspiration from that call to tell us about the reality of the presence of Daesh, jihadists and ISIS in Libya. I believe that the story of the four confiscated and of our two tragically fallen compatriots, something from which we have unfortunately been so directly invested has imposed to our attention what is emerging in Libya, that is, a strategy of war for extension and consolidation on the Libyan territory of ISIS, as well as rampant terrorism. Now, ISIS is a very serious problem for the international community, as we know. It is a problem to be faced on many fronts - not only on the Libyan one - and on many sides, and not only on the military one. It is, however, also to be dealt with on the Libyan front and in military terms because we are faced with effective and bloody war operations. It is, in some way, superimposed this reality, which was not existing two years ago or a year ago. Two years ago we were already faced with Libyan chaos, but there was not this disruptive element that is intertwined with the collapse of all forms of state legitimacy in Libya. I am talking about the ISIS strategy, the presence and installation of ISIS in Libya and also about its possibility of consolidation and further expansion. Now, it seems essential to me to stress that the problem - which not only concerns Italy, as was said before, but the entire international community - of combating terrorism and the ISIS war offensive must be distinguished, while intertwining with it, from the framework of our specific responsibilities towards Libya. We are virtually involved in a vast coalition that is emerging against Islamic fundamentalism, its threats and also its alleged state aggregation. It will be necessary to agree with the allies to what extent Italy should participate on all fronts according to the need to counter fundamentalism, terrorism and ISIS in Libya and elsewhere. When we spoke - every day for a few weeks - of a mission in Libya under Italian leadership, a role that the Government has claimed and that has been understandably proud of having seen itself recognized by the allies, certainly there was no talk of a military mission against ISIS. There was no mention of it a year ago because there was not yet this insidious presence in Libya, very threatening directly to Italy. I believe that when you allude to an Italian-led mission, it would be grotesque to think that there can be a fight against ISIS on many fronts and in many different situations with Italian-led leadership. Under Italian leadership there can only be a mission to support institutional and political stabilisation in Libya, a mission of institution building and support to a legitimate Government capable of preserving Libya's territorial integrity and safeguarding its development potential, largely based on energy resources. However, for this mission, which may include some limited uses of special departments, as well as security services, as has been widely said and written, the Government, understandably, considers it essential that some preliminary conditions be fulfilled, such as the existence of a Libyan National Government that makes a formal request for help to Italy, an international legitimacy, an approval of our Parliament. Since we sometimes go back to talking rather in vain about NATO intervention in Libya on a UN mandate in 2011, I would like to remind you that then there was legitimacy or, indeed, the international initiative of the United Nations; and there was the approval of our Parliament at the sessions of 23 and 24 March 2011 with the approval of a very large majority - including the Democratic Party, then the opposition - of those motions. The only thing we could certainly not wait for in 2011 is that there was a request from the Libyan Government, since the UN mandate was aimed at striking precisely the Government then existing in Tripoli for the serious violations of human rights against those who demonstrated against the Gaddafi regime in the name of freedom, during the so-called Arab spring. However, today we have a great question mark which is whether, when and how a new unitary national government will be formed that requires the help of Italy. Unfortunately, many of our expectations have been disappointed. Yesterday it seems that the President-in-Office of the Council said that there is not an infinite time for the constitution of this Government, using a sentence that I think is completely understandable, even if a bit cryptic. While waiting for the necessary conditions to be fulfilled, we still do what we can, already in Libya, especially at humanitarian level. Another thing is, as Minister Gentiloni Silveri said very well, to assume our responsibilities for the security of our country, because towards ISIS, towards this armed presence and the war actions of Islamic fundamentalism in Libya we certainly have to pay close attention to direct threats for Italy and hypothetically for the Italian soil. The reference to Article 52 of the Constitution is sacrosanct, but we must also bear in mind that there is already international coverage (and it is foreseeable that there is further) on the basis of that famous Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter (which I believe very few have had, even among those who write in the newspapers, the adventure of reading). Chapter that, let us not forget, marking a radical difference with respect to the work of the Society of Nations, when there were Fascism and Nazism on the rise, provides (it is written this way, go read it) that there may be an intervention with forces of heaven, land and sea, under the command of the United Nations, to prevent or suppress violations and threats to peace and international security. Therefore, that is the framework in which the much more general question of confrontation with the threats of Islamic fundamentalism and with the war unleashed by ISIS is inscribed. Of course, all this must be done within the framework of our possibilities and a fair distribution of tasks with our allies, within - I repeat - the very vast coalition that is emerging. Of course, it happened that the representative of a great country of our ally, to whom we are bound by a thousand threads, improvised figures: the figure of the 5,000 Italian military perhaps came to mind suddenly to the ambassador of the United States thinking about what was our commitment to Afghanistan, because in Afghanistan our commitment has touched the 5,000 units, deployed on the field in very difficult conditions. I would just like to say, if I may, that I have lived, together with some colleagues who were already in Parliament in previous legislatures, the most painful moments of my experience as President of the Republic by going to Ciampino to welcome the bodies of our fallen in Afghanistan, embracing their family members and honoring their sacrifice in the great funeral ceremonies in Santa Maria degli Angeli. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE ePD]] It was my duty to do so, and it was our duty at those moments to represent the nation's unity alongside the armed forces. But these are experiences that I do not wish anyone to repeat and, therefore, before talking about thousands and thousands of our men to be sent on the ground I agree that one should think not once, but a thousand times [[Applause from the PD Group]] At the same time, I say that we cannot accept the idea that it is something contrary to our historical, ideal and cultural references to the use of arms in the cases provided for in the United Nations Statute. Generating the illusion that we will never, in our future, have the need for interventions with our Armed Forces, in a world that is teeming with conflicts, tensions and very serious threats, would really deceive public opinion, soliciting an old-fashioned pacifism, which has no reason to be in the world today and already in the world that had emerged from the Second World War. Minister, I hope that these clarifications will serve to avoid further misunderstandings and to prepare ourselves for what we must do, within our limits, with a great sense of weight and responsibility, in Libya, for the stabilisation of Libya, and in general - in Libya and elsewhere - to counter the offensive of Islamic fundamentalism. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD and Senators Albertini and Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u81	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I should like to begin by saying to the Minister that I believe it is necessary to say, clearly and forcefully, on our part, that what has happened in the last week and in the last few days is not acceptable and I really hope it will never happen again. We have talked about the Libyan crisis and the very unclear and tragic events of the hostages almost everywhere, except here in Parliament. This, Minister, seems very wrong to us. Mr Minister, we have understood that something great was moving and that the drums of war, which you yourself mentioned, had begun to roll mainly from the headlines of the international press, from the interviews and clarifications of the US ambassador and also from the television statements of our President of the Council and various Ministers, because at least until now no one has felt the obligation to bring this debate here, in its sole place, in a timely manner. This was not even done before the fact that agents of our services operate in Libyan territory and that American drones depart from the base of Sigonella to bomb the stations of Daesh in Cyrenaica, as has been mentioned; not even in the case of the dramatic page constituted by the tragedy of the hostages: not even on this last point, at least until now, the Government had felt the need to say something more precise, in the most appropriate place. I insist that this is the only place where we can start a debate like this. I am also referring to the dynamics that led to the killing of our two fellow citizens - we have heard the Minister's words in this regard - and to the liberation of the other two and also to the very sad epilogue, which saw for many days the same families as the victims unable to weep for their loved ones (in this regard, we add our Group's solidarity with them). The fact that we have not yet been able to speak fully in this House is, in our view, a serious and wrong point and we really hope that this will never happen again. Even what is happening today, that is, the Minister's communications before the Chambers, with Parliament involved in a very passive way - if I may use this expression - without being able to vote and have a definite and concrete voice on a subject like this, it seems to us, in such a complex and delicate affair, a point that, if we were in the government, we would not underestimate with such simplicity. President Renzi said a few days ago from a television lounge that if there is a military intervention, it will have to be approved by Parliament first. I would like to say clearly to the President of the Council and also to the Minister that this is not a kind concession, but that is what the Italian Constitution obliges us to do. I still insist on the method, because in this case it looks a lot like the substance: We need to look not only at things that have been done or agreements that have already been made, perhaps with the troops on the point of boarding, but Parliament needs to know everything that happens, step by step, and it must be able to make a useful impact on the choices that are being made. This is all the more true, also because of the so-called limited military operations, which, thanks to a change approved in a hurry and fury, in a very particular climate, such as the one following the tragedy in Paris, today allows the Government to have the power to decide independently, without parliamentary control and only with the obligation to inform the Copasir. All the more so, when decisions of this kind are seen as acts of war or can prepare the ground for a possible mission, I believe that it would also be very appropriate (and even necessary in my opinion) to make Parliament aware of what is happening on time. To the criticism of method, which, however - I insist - is a very serious element of political substance, I would like to add some element on the substance, some more political considerations. Minister, the Government knows that, despite the opposition, in all these months the Parliamentary Group and the party to which I belong have never had a particular problem in having, on foreign policy and more generally on the major steps that go through the democratic life of this country, an attitude more marked by the general interest than simply by that of a party. However, while recognizing to the Government, as we have done several times in all these months, that we have had an intelligently prudent attitude, even in relation to very sensitive and even dramatic issues that have crossed the political scene and have not been overwhelmed by war hysteria, we would also like to say with great clarity that we do not consider sufficient the assurances of the President-in-Office of the Council. Not only that, Minister, because we cannot fail to notice significant differences of opinion also within the same Government and we cannot fail to see that in recent months the voice of the Ministers has not been the same as in very delicate passages, but also because the same statements made by President Renzi yesterday in the margins or during the meeting with President Hollande seem to us probably slightly, but in any case different from those made in the previous days. For example, the called indispensable condition of a Libyan Unitary Government yesterday became a desirable condition. As you well understand - and I address the members of the Government - on a delicate matter such as this, words are not just important, but are obviously decisive. Therefore, even when you change an adjective or a verb, you should be very cautious and explain why you do it. Has anything changed in these twenty-four hours compared to such a decisive step in foreign policy? We think it is all too obvious that in these hours there is an intense diplomatic activity, probably a real negotiation, with the aim of giving life to an international expedition, whose guide, whose weight and responsibility would fall above all on our country. I would therefore like to say unequivocally, so that at least it remains in the proceedings of this parliamentary debate, that in our view it would be a very serious, very important mistake. Today a mission in Libya would end up having the same disastrous effects as that indefensible 2011, for which are obviously also responsible those political forces of the right who speak today, but who were at the time the Government of the country and, as he has reminded us now, also President Napolitano and the Democratic Party itself, who was instead in opposition at the time. At that juncture a general climate was built that led to that dramatic error, to that unfortunate military intervention that unfortunately only benefited the growth in all these months and years of Islamic fundamentalism and did not at all resolve the chaos of that area, aggravating an already very difficult political condition and determining the disastrous situation to which we had to report in the months and years following. We think that paying prices would, once again, be the weakest, the Libyan population already massacred by years of war by gangs. We think, however, as we have said so many times in recent weeks, that the commitment of Italy and the European Union must be directed deeply towards reaching the agreement for the establishment of a united government capable of starting a process of peace. Of course the costs of such an expedition would be very serious, as well as the risks, of course; even the migratory wave could become even unsustainable. I would therefore like to say a few things, but clear and clear, and we would like the Government to do the same, indeed without any ambiguity, in this House, in the Italian Parliament and not simply on television. The Government must, from our point of view, state with the utmost clarity that military intervention is certainly excluded, at least in the absence of a request from a Libyan unitary government, but legitimized by the electoral consensus and not a mere puppet; it must state equally clearly that any intervention, even the most limited, is not even imaginable outside the framework of an international legitimacy of the United Nations and without the characteristics of a true international mission and not of an essentially Italian commitment. Without these preliminary conditions, Mr President, we believe that any Italian commitment cannot even be taken into account. We would also like to add that, even in the presence of these possible conditions (now very distant), we believe in any case that it would be very risky and very dangerous a company whose results could be very serious and very worrying, even devastating, for the population of Libya and even more destabilising for North Africa, because the risk of causing thousands of deaths is very high. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). I'm done. I would simply like to make one last remark, because I would like us to never stop remembering it. In this case it is not simply a question of claiming a pacifist choice, which, I would like to remind you, is not the property of my parliamentary group, but of our Constitution and our Republic. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senators Campanella and Santangelo]] ). It is also necessary to operate with realism and effectiveness (all the opposite of ideology) in a complex scenario, aware of the concrete possibility of strengthening the Daesh much more than weakening it, as the vast majority of analysts and those who spent years studying the terrorist phenomenon that was being born while the West was pretending nothing and doing wars that ended with strengthening it. In short, we have already gravely wrong in 2011; well, I believe that repeating that mistake today, many years later, would really be a dramatic choice, which would have no justification. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Campanella).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u82	We greet the students, the students and the teachers of the Institute including the City of Castiglion Fiorentino, Castiglion Fiorentino, in the province of Arezzo, and the Burmese journalist Nita Yin Yin May who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u83	Mr President, I would like to say at once that the words of Mr Gentiloni Silveri, in my opinion, have been convincing; the remarks to the government are uncertain, confused, contradictory. I have not quite understood - I confess to my colleagues in the opposition - some remarks that have been made, which frankly seem to me to be lunar: the timeliness in government communications after the tragedy of our two citizens, Failla and Piano, who still, at this moment, are waiting to have back, even if they are not living, on the national territory. Sorry, what was the government supposed to do? While two other compatriots had to be recovered and rescued, perhaps even covered operations (I hope they are so), did he have to come here and dwell on the details, compromising or risking to compromise the lives of the two Italians still alive in Libya? It seems to me that this is contrary to common sense, without the need for me to waste any more words. What was the government to do about other events? Someone points out that there may perhaps be people related to the Italian intelligence services and secret services in Libyan territory. There is a cover, let's say, in terms of the device that allows the government to do this. Are we kidding each other? With what is happening in Libya, would we be more relaxed if Italy did not have some "sensors" operating in that country to understand what is happening and prevent what can happen? But I'm sorry, we're on the moon if that's what we're thinking. We have not understood anything about what is happening in the world where, as Mr Gentiloni Silveri rightly said, recalling Obama's words, worse than the rogue states there are only the dissolved states. Then we are in this situation. And then, excuse me, for I, as an opponent, in all the passages of my parliamentary life, have supported the foreign policy of different governments, even when those governments had my vote against, please do not use the hypocrisy that I have heard today from those who, after unleashing themselves in the most violent and inconsulted criticism of the Government, say that it wants to support the Government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the name of the necessary national unity. No, national unity is done with seriousness, because this is the first thing that is required, not with fictions. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio]] Today we are all engaged, in Parliament as well as in the Government, to claim a leading role for Italy in what may be the future of Libya. What does that mean? Does this coincide with the fact that we want to send thousands of men to Libya? But based on what? The leadership role is also explicit in pointing out to allies the issues that we see better than they do. The question that we see better than them is one and simple: if we want all Libyans, from the first to the last, all tribes, all ethnic components to even those politicians who in Libya attack to be considered too close to Italy immediately realize a unity against the West forgetting ISIS, we must deploy thousands of soldiers in the field. We send thousands of people to the ground and immediately realize a contrast between all the Libyans and the Western community; so we get the wonderful result that we, who would like to help them, go to Libya become the neocolonizers. Just talk to the most disparate members of the Libyan world to immediately understand this consideration. That is why I too have been affected by interventions, certainly in good faith, which, however, have had a negative effect on public opinion. My colleague Mr De Cristofaro, I want to talk about what you have just said: not in the name of an abstract principle of pacifism because with the flags of peace we do not fight terrorism. When we went to Serbia and dropped bombs, we did it in the name of peace. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] In fact, a few years later, we have pacified the Balkans and today the countries that are part of it knock on the door of the European Union and are part of our future development. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD. Comments of Senator Santangelo]] When the resistance against the Nazis was made in Italy, it was not made with the flag of peace. Read the story if you don't know! [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD. Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you. You destroyed the Constitution. What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let Senator Casini finish the surgery. You'll have a chance to talk. Senator Airola, let me finish the surgery. AIROLA (M5S). Don't quote the Resistance! Study history! Shame on you! The point I would like to highlight, and President Napolitano said it very well, is that we want to contribute to a unity around the Government. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] , and it is no coincidence that the main leaders of this country (I refer to Prodi and Berlusconi) from antithetical political positions have had the same position on Libya. Obviously, this position, as President Napolitano rightly said, is a position of reasonableness and responsibility, which we are convinced for the moment requires an obligatory interlocutor, which is the Government established under the aegis of the UN. Then, of course, that government will have to be helped. If it is to enter Tripoli, because it cannot govern from abroad, we will have to use all our energies in the way and in the form that the Government considers appropriate and that it will come to propose in Parliament. But this is the methodology, and it is not form: this is a substance of foreign policy. I would also like to explain three other points. The first concerns the tripartition of Libya. I do not believe that the tripartition of Libya has already been sanctioned, as someone, acting as informant, has come to explain us. Libya's tripartition isn't there yet. MARTON (M5S). Again. CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). But something is causing us to have a growing concern. I want to be explicit. We all know that the community of Mediterranean countries (starting from Egypt and following Italy, France and all others) supports the mediation of the UN and Kobler. We also know that Egypt has a special relationship with General Haftar. General Haftar, according to testimonials from all, is the one who, materially, is preventing the vote in the Parliament of Tobruk, whose majority has already signed a document of support to the Government, signed by more than 100 parliamentarians. Something's not right here. If Egypt were so committed to securing Libyan unity, General Haftar would probably not be in a position to move with this unscrupulousness. That there is then someone who thinks that the tripartition can be a solution, it is an eventuality, Minister Gentiloni Silveri, that you will certainly have assessed, but that is to be seen with great concern. In this regard, I have a great deal of concern, because, just as a mass military action in Libya today would be demented, without preparation, so it would be equally damaging, for the Libyan interests and ours, a tripartition. The second consideration is very fast. There has been talk of the Secretary-General of the Farnesina, linking the resignation of Ambassador Valensise with the issues we are talking about. I do not believe that these resignations have any relation to these issues, as I believe the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said. I would like to take this opportunity to say that he leaves the service of the State an ambassador of the highest quality, who has served the country with seriousness, who has dealt with Parliament with great institutional respect for the roles of each other. It is therefore right that Mr Valensise should be thanked by Parliament for his service. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]] Thanks to him and the Italian diplomatic corps, who do his duty with great intelligence and professionalism. It will be a very important appointment that Minister Gentiloni Silveri will make and I am convinced that the successor will be up to who leaves. The last consideration has nothing to do with the Libyan debate, but I must do so, Minister. The considerations of these hours and the statements that have come are still very disappointing. I publicly solicited her. Of course, since I am a man of the institutions, I think it is not up to the President of the Foreign Affairs Committee but to the Government. Therefore, let each one do his own work. You do yours, and we'll check you out. I think, however, that on the matter of the Regeni we need a very dignified and decent reaction from the Government, because they are making fun of us! [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]] I have no other expression to use except the awareness that the answers are insufficient and contradictory. Clearly, in many circumstances they coincide with the attempt to take time; it is not something on which we can transition, because behind Regens there is the decorum and dignity of a nation and the defense of human life and of our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u84	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u85	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you listen to us (fortunately you listen to us, because what has been said in some speeches is absolutely unacceptable), talking about peace bombs is a blasphemy for the Italian language and an insult to the intelligence of Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : It's something unacceptable! And that to support this thing is even Casini who has been in here for fifty years, with Napolitano who has been in here for seventy years, makes me even more impression. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is something I wanted to stress, but I am now going on the subject. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I understand that you are supinely still enslaved to these powers, but we do not and we say so forcefully. That is why I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I thank the Minister for coming today to make these communications, which we cannot even define as a debate. Consider, Minister, that we have been asking here for months both your presence and that of Minister Pinotti. Today it would have been appropriate - and some of my colleagues have pointed out this - at least to carry out some motions or to ask Parliament to express itself on strategies that concern the lives of all of us Italians. What has been said by you, Minister, is elementary and not enough at all. The information circulating in Italy comes through international media. If Parliament, if the representatives sent to Parliament by the citizens are not informed of these actions on time, how can we convey the right information? President Grasso, perhaps it was appropriate to call here the director of the "Wall Street Journal," who for weeks writes about the agreements that Italy has made with the United States of America; or, with all the respect of ministers Gentiloni Silveri and Pinotti, we could probably call the Secretary of Defense Carter, or even President Obama. Let's face it, Italy's foreign and defence policy strategy is no longer being done in Parliament, it is no longer being done by this government of puppets: it is being done by the United States of America, today more than yesterday, and this is absolutely unacceptable. The real reality is not what was described by Minister Gentiloni. Here there are economic interests that go beyond all other interests. Let's go see what this government has already decided with legislative quirks. The Prime Minister has already given the United States the power to deploy armed vehicles from Sicily: we are not talking about Africa, we are talking about Italy! In Sicily the bases of Sigonella, Birgi and Pantelleria are available to the Americans, who will be able to bomb Libya. This is a nice and good hypocrisy, because you remind me of Article 52 of the Constitution, but I remind you of Article 78 of the Constitution, where it is said that any action of war must be established, reasoned and voted in Parliament, and not by Renzi or his Government. I would remind you of Article 11 of the Constitution in all its parts, including the second. When it is said that Italy will be the head of a fantastic action in Libya, but by whom has it been decided? When you say that it will happen after the constitution of a Libyan Government, I remember that from 2011 to today there has practically never been a Government. So what are you talking about? Talk about those agreements with the Americans that you made in dark rooms and of which you kept Parliament in the dark. The division of Libya into three parts is a real fact. In the face of these things, unity on the part of Parliament is a good thing, but the latter cannot be mortified only as a ratifying body of what a government is doing that even the Italians have not wanted more. This Government is in fact supported by majorities that have not been sent here by the Italians; they are majorities that probably Giorgio Napolitano wanted, sending to power Renzi. That is the reality. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] In the face of this, until Parliament comes to the substance of the decisions that affect us all, on our part you can have only a hard and firm opposition, which is based on the facts. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u86	He is enlisted to speak Senator Romani Paolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u87	Mr President, I would like to start with the conclusion of Mr Gentiloni, who finished his speech by talking about firmness, prudence and responsibility. These are concepts which we share, but which, in our view, must be reflected in international legislation governing relations between States and the possibilities for States to intervene in areas such as Libya. Rightly, in the speeches that preceded me, someone reminded me of Article 11 of the Constitution. You, Minister, referred to Article 52, according to which it is the sacred duty of Italian citizens to defend their homeland. But we are in an international context in which UN Security Council Resolution 2259 insists, which in a passage reports urging States to quickly assist the supposed Libyan government against the ISIL (i.e. the Daesh, as it is evoked) and against other terrorist groups in Libya, in particular Ansar al-Sharia (which rightly says Resolution 2259, is linked with al-Qaeda). Someone this morning also recalled Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, which in Article 42 provides, where the economic and military blockade measures of an area were not sufficient to solve the problem, that action could be taken, with air, sea or land forces, to maintain or restore international peace and security. Those three concepts that you, Minister, have identified as the conclusion of your speech can and must then be declined also within the framework of international legislation, which in my opinion allows, also to our country and also under the leadership of our country, the Allied countries to intervene, where they should deem it appropriate, in the interest of our country and in the interest of the Western community. Minister, I must say that this morning the most disappointing part of your speech was what I would like to call Sabrata's hole. I have not understood what has actually happened and I have the impression that sufficient answers have not been given on this point. First of all, why did the four Italian technicians go by car, on the indication and authorization of Bonatti company? They should have taken a ship, landed in Mellita and approached much more easily at the workplace and instead crossed the Libyan border where they were intercepted. Why was the convoy of a group that you yourself, Minister, called not of Daesh, but of pro-Islamist criminals (this was your definition) intercepted by the Sabrata police shooting, so I guess not with the expertise that there should be in these cases, necessary and mandatory where there are hostages? Why did Sabrata or Sabrata police authorize the interception of the convoy? Why did the municipality of Sabrata kidnap the bodies of the two poor Italians and also kidnap the two surviving Italians? Why did they have to spend 24-forty-eight hours before Italians could return to Italy? Sabrata - as I will say later - is the same place where the F15 Americans, starting from Great Britain, made a bombing during which forty criminals of the Daesh, that is forty Tunisians (no Libyan) and unfortunately also two poor Serbian hostages, struck with surgical precision. So Sabrata is not an area where things take place in a recognizable and intelligible way. What role did the Government of Tripoli play? We attended a strange and disturbing press conference, where there was a silent mayor of Sabrata (assumed, but I imagine it is), who was very keen to be present, after his police killed two Italian citizens, accompanied by a Minister of Foreign Affairs presumed of the Government of Tripoli, who claimed the action that happened had led to collateral damage (imagination not foreseen) and that claimed, for his Government, the protagonism of that action. So, Minister, I have the impression that there are a lot of dark points on this issue. The agencies have just launched the news that they should arrive at Ciampino airport the bodies of Salvatore Failla and Fausto Piano. I hope that this is true and also that their bodies have not been destroyed during the autopsies that the Government of Tripoli has decided to do, I do not know with which permissions. I understand that there is confidential information on this point and that the most appropriate parliamentary forum for discussion is the Republic's Parliamentary Security Committee (I am pleased that an amendment has been adopted this morning which will also allow our Group to be present here, as it should be). However, I have the impression that due confidentiality (which, by sense of responsibility, we respect) cannot ignore the search for truth. As for the truth about what is happening in Libya, there is another dark point in this story. You speak of the presence of 5,000 Daesh militants, but the Daesh is a multifaceted creature, almost chameleontic. The Daesh is a liberation force in Iraq: militants who entered Mosul, a city of one million and 600,000 inhabitants, were welcomed as liberators. The synthesis between the Sunni tribes of Tikrit and the Daesh shows that there the Daesh is also a political, state and organizational force, which collects taxes and applies shari'a, but which certainly represents a state. In Syria, the Daesh is something else. In that country they are mainly criminals (because so they must be defined) who come from outside and have not found particular connivances with the Syrian tribes and populations. In Libya the Daesh is settled in Sirte. You, Minister, spoke of 5,000 people, but it turns out that Sirte is strongly represented by the former tribe of Gaddafi, the so-called gheddafia, which is a minority tribe in the Libyan theatre, but just as Saddam Hussein, with the Sunni tribes, for many years has guaranteed the governability of Iraq with absolutely unsympathetic criteria, that same tribe has guaranteed the governability of Libya. I remember that Italy - with right-wing and left-wing governments that we all supported - sought and made agreements with Gaddafi to prevent the boats full of hullists from leaving Libya. Returning to Sabrata, the surgery I mentioned earlier allowed - by chance - to greatly mitigate the attack of the Islamists or the Daesh (reading to be done is difficult) to the Tunisian city of Ben Guerdane, because it seemed that there were 200, 300, 400 people who had to cross the border and attack the Tunisian city, while they passed only in 60, half of whom, thanks to the sky, died, making victims in the municipal police and civilian victims. This means that the surgery of softening done by the United States (I imagine by making known to the Western governments, especially the Italian one, that this intervention would be done) has succeeded and had a positive effect. This means that there is an asymmetric war criterion that we have already experienced in Afghanistan. In fact, in Afghanistan we had a war in which special forces (including our excellent special forces, including Task Force 45) went to the scene and killed (because of this) the commanders of the Taliban forces in the villages. The village was surrounded and a stabilisation operation of the village itself opened and, thanks to the use of international and Afghan forces, police forces and forces of the Afghan army, it was liberated. This means that there is the possibility of carrying out military operations with special bodies which, as a matter of fact, are now made easier by the new legislation that we have adopted, which allows the special bodies to work in synthesis and synergy with agents and services. There is therefore a space for targeted surgery to soften and soften the defenses of these criminals. We don't talk about this. It seems that we are talking, for the first time, about military operations that I hope exist (in fact, when I hear that there are British, French and American agents and services, it is not said that the Italians are also present). What happened in Sabrata worries me because it is not a city of millions of inhabitants. It is a city with a few thousand inhabitants. I do not believe that for that criminal gang, which guaranteed, by the very words of those who were kidnapped, that it would never pass to the Daesh and that it had as its objective only a ransom, I imagine economic - in this matter - it was so difficult to identify the location and location in eight months of kidnapping. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] There is something that has not worked overall in this story and on that, dear Minister, we have not had any kind of response. Someone in the recent past, especially the 5 Star Movement Group, said something I shared: wars are won by targeted actions, like those I tried to imagine, but also by cutting the economic cordon. If the Daesh in Iraq and Syria were prevented from transporting oil illegally to Turkey and other neighbouring countries, everything would be easier. In this circumstance, we have a similar case: the Liybian investment authority (LIA) has 67 billion deposited in Britain. It is the money of the Libyan people; I do not say of governments because it is difficult to recognize one who has international legitimacy. It is 67 billion that are there, but the Libyans themselves - once the representative of the Government of Tobruk and once the representative of the Government of Tripoli - participate in assemblies of Italian companies. Among the Italian companies there is Finmeccanica. We have such a contiguity and quantity of relationships, even of an economic and important nature, which allow a Libyan representative, in this case of the Government of Tripoli, to participate in the assemblies and to determine by his vote the union college. This means that we have a primacy in the relationship with Libya and all the mechanisms, whether or not they are of this country, should put us in a condition of absolute privilege of relationship. I never hear of that. Dear Minister, I understand, I repeat and conclude: it is difficult to talk about these things if you run the risk of endangering the life of someone who is there. We understand this and will reserve ourselves in the Copasir area to better understand what is going on. However, the omission of truth that was made this morning in this House, having also derailed the government's communication to information and not even given Parliament the opportunity to vote on a motion (which, in my opinion, would have been better to give a parliamentary indication), I think it has obscured and clouded even more what has happened in these tragic days. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u88	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u89	Mr President, I too want to express on behalf of the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party our sorrow at the death of Fausto Piano and Salvatore Failla and our closeness to their family. Well done Minister Gentiloni to confirm that the Italian Government will do everything to ascertain the truth about the seizure of the four compatriots, the death of Piano and Failla, as it is doing to ascertain what happened to the horrendous killing of Giulio Regenti. We look forward with confidence to the outcome of the work of ascertaining our Services and our diplomacy seeking truth. I thank Mr Gentiloni for his information and I agree with his analysis. I agree with the basic guidelines of the Italian Government on the Libyan issue: to promote the political and social stabilisation of Libya; to contain the terrorist emergency; to operate in international law and with the consent of the Libyan authorities. The facts - and I will not repeat them - are known about the errors, delays and omissions that have led to this crisis. After years of deterioration of Libya's conditions, now vast parts of that country are reduced to a laboratory and logistic base for international terrorism and illegal emigration. Libya is already a powder keg - and it is not a prospect, Minister Gentiloni, but, unfortunately, a current reality - in the heart of the Mediterranean, 300 kilometers from Italy, with a complex and indecipherable local reality, a regional scenario dense with unknowns, where the many protagonists each play their own game, some clean and others dirty. Today, for the international community, turning its head on the other side and not understanding the urgency of the dangers would mean neglecting the continuous worsening of the instability of a country, which ISIS terrorism wants to transform into a platform, from which to start the attacks on Italy and Europe. Five years after the riots in the square, culminated with the killing of Gaddafi, despite the commitment of the United Nations and its envoys Bernardino Leon and Martin Kobler, it has not been possible so far to establish in Libya a government of national agreement, with adequate consent and representativeness. In an extremely fragmented context, where dozens and dozens of factions, militias, local potentates and tribal forces are formed and broken down - even daily, we can say - where armed ISIS units continually violate the borders with Tunisia and have control of 200 kilometers of coast and the city of Sirte, the lack of consensus of an authoritative government makes the actions necessary for stabilisation not practicable. In the absence of the decision of a Libyan Parliament, which is not there, any intervention by this or that Western power would be interpreted as a violation of national sovereignty, would stiffen positions and fuel anti-European and anti-Western sentiments. We know the multiplicity of local authorities, which move autonomously within the Libyan national territory and we know that we have to assess the risks of an increasing presence of ISIS and its control of increasingly larger parts of the territory. Yesterday even a new attack came to the security forces and the Tunisian army - the army, even! - in Tunisian territory, with firefights and 55 deaths. We also consider the strong Italian energy interests in Libya. Senators, energy is not only a business, but it is a need, a necessity for Italy. We take into account the role that could be attributed to Italy in the stabilisation work. For these reasons, I agree with President Renzi's position, when he says that the Italian military mission in Libya is not on the agenda, because the first thing to do is that there is a solid government, that has the possibility to solicit an intervention of the international community and not to make the mistakes of the past repeat. The Italian Government confirms, with these words, the gravity of the danger and our strong interest in the stabilisation of Libya, but takes due account of the principles of international legality and the difficult conditions of that country. For Italy, the rejection of war is not just a constitutional precept. Italy - as Senator De Cristofaro said before - is a still young Republic, which has paid very high prices to violence and wars. But we are also a mature people, who know how to distinguish between the aspiration for peace and the need to help build new balances in North Africa and the Mediterranean, and they also know how to defend their national territory and the life of Italians. We are a people who want to understand the meaning of events and try to predict the consequences. Italians are well aware of the hypocrisy of a peace that is only declaimed, rhetorical and preaching: the peace of those who do not want to see, nor do they know how to listen. History has taught us that a peace that is not defended, sought, conquered, does not produce peace, but promotes war. In the search for a true peace in a world devastated by dozens of local wars, today Italy enjoys the international authority conquered with the results of the action of its Armed Forces. There are more than 5,000 of our soldiers, aviators, sailors committed to promoting peace in the world. I remember this fact to thank our armed forces not only for their commitment, but even more for the quality and intelligence of their work. We must acknowledge that a military ruling class of absolute democratic loyalty and excellent professional qualifications has grown in Italy. Our Armed Forces are one of the poles of excellence of the apparatus of our State and the vastness of the international engagement of the Armed Forces, of Italy confirms the breadth and intensity of the crisis situations that as a whole are destabilising and bleeding the entire South and South-East shore of the Mediterranean. In this context, the assurance of the President-in-Office of the Council, confirmed here this morning by Minister Gentiloni, that any possible Italian commitment in Libya will still need all necessary parliamentary and institutional steps. The Senators of the Democratic Party appreciate this address and thank the Government for making it public. I conclude my speech with a few comments on the phase that Italy, Europe, the Mediterranean and the entire international community are going through. While the effects of a financial crisis persist, which has stopped much of the world's economy since 2008, while migratory flows are taking on less and less controllable dimensions, while globalisation and new technologies are deeply affecting the very structure of the nations, while all this happens, increasingly in the world we hear analysts, commentators, editorialists and politicians say the word "war". War is a word that Italians abhor, which they consider foreign to their beliefs and culture, but let us be careful. The rejection of war cannot and must not prevent us from seeing what is happening around us; it cannot obscure the abomination and danger of the new international terrorism, make us forget its extreme violence, its practice of kamikaze, its ritual executions, the enslavement of women, children and men, the threats of absolute destruction of Western civilization. Much of what has been authoritatively defined as a new world war in pieces originates precisely from the violence of the new terrorism, from the breadth of its enlistment basin, from its financial availability, from organic forms of complicity with the most ruthless criminal organizations. In this difficult situation, faced with such complex international scenarios, it is good for the Italian Government to move not only with clarity of objectives, but also with great care and caution. We must fully share a policy that has a clear awareness of the gravity of the danger, but reject the adventure and place as its priority objectives any decision the establishment of a united and representative Libyan Government, a clear position of the United Nations, the presence of an explicit and supportive international coalition. If for our country these are the preconditions for a serious policy to support and help Libya, there is something more that we senators must do, that falls within our responsibilities and constitutes our primary civil and political duty. Mr Gentiloni spoke about this earlier, and so did President Casini and Senator Mario Mauro, the latter with arguments and tones that I did not share. Never before, by entering into the substance of decisions concerning our national security and that pertain to our foreign and defence policy, is it our duty to take into account exclusively the interest of Italy, the sacrifice of our armed forces and security, the obligations we have entered into with our international allies. In the time of greatest alarm for Italy since the end of the Second World War, it would be very serious if we were to get our hands on our particular interests as a party or as a side, if before Italy we thought about our electoral gain or our parliamentary tactics or used non-arguments, as I heard from Senators Lucidi and Santangelo. The use of foreign and defence policy for internal purposes would mean not only betraying Italians, but also weakening Italy at international level and taking away from our armed and security forces that full and loyal support that is owed to them by Parliament, without distinction between the right and the left, between ancient parties and new movements. We keep in mind that in the great democracies the majority and opposition are opposed in everything, but never when national security is at stake. Let us remember this, because it is precisely on this point, the unitary value to be given to the defence of the Homeland, that a Parliament demonstrates its democratic maturity. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u90	I thank Minister Gentiloni and declare closed the discussion on the information of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-588.ana.u91	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.16 a.m.
