ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. The first question to be asked will be 3-02177 on the exclusion of Murgia's territory from possible nuclear waste storage sites. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with reference to Senator Stefano's question, which seeks to know the state of the iter which will see the publication of the map of areas potentially suitable for the location of the national radioactive waste depot, is the following. Following a popular referendum, as a result of Decree-Law No 34 of 2011 and Decree of the President of the Republic No 114 of 2011, the provisions on the construction of new nuclear installations were repealed and, therefore, Legislative Decree No 31 of 2010 was amended to regulate only the regulation of irradiated fuel storage systems and radioactive waste, as well as compensatory measures, pursuant to Article 25 of Law No 99 of 23 July 2009. Directive 2011/60/Euratom (transmitted by Legislative Decree No 45 of 2014) requires Member States to dispose as a matter of priority of radioactive waste produced in the Member State in which it was generated, including in order to avoid imposing undue burdens on future generations, as a result of inefficient and safe management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. The Italian Republic must, therefore, dispose of this material, intended as the place of radioactive waste or spent fuel, in an appropriate manner, in an authorised installation without intending to recover it subsequently. To this end, the procedure for the location of the national storage of radioactive waste, with its timing, is currently under way, entirely governed by Article 27 of Legislative Decree No 31 of 2010. The ministerial structures concerned in this regard, during the examination of the documentation received on 13 March, jointly pointed out the need to acquire certain technical details, both by Sogin SpA and by ISPRA, in order to fully evaluate the product document. On July 20th, the required update was delivered, now to the examination of ministerial structures. In this regard, it should be noted that the above-mentioned rules on how to define the preliminary draft national map of areas potentially suitable for the location of the technology park do not confer any discretion on the ministries mentioned in that framework as regards the inclusion or exclusion of specific areas in the same draft. It should also be pointed out that the preparation of this preliminary draft is intended solely to define all the technically possible locations of the technological park and that therefore, in the context of a decision-making process with a wider scope, should be taken into account in order to identify the site in question. To this end, the already mentioned Article 27 of Legislative Decree No. 31 of 2010 provides a complex and articulated procedure, aimed at acquiring contributions, among others, from territorial authorities, research bodies, professional associations and individuals with qualified interests. This process phase is intended to open only after the publication of the preliminary draft of the CNAPI. Following this publication, a public consultation will take place, within which the above mentioned subjects will be able to present observations and technical proposals in written form, as well as a national seminar, which will feature, among others, the Regions, the Provinces and the Municipalities in whose territory the areas concerned, the IPO, the ANCI, the associations of the industrialists of the Provinces concerned, the trade union associations most representative, as well as the universities and research bodies present in the territory. Following the findings of the national seminar the map of potentially suitable sites will be definitively approved, which will form the basis for the next phase of effective identification of the site, in turn characterized by a further interlocation with the territorial authorities and, in particular, the search for an understanding with the regions concerned. It is considered appropriate to specify, moreover, that pursuant to Article 27, paragraph 3, of the aforementioned legislative decree, no specific and formal communication to the Chambers and regional and local administrations concerned of the contents of the validation report of the cartographic results related to the CNAPI is foreseen. It is expected that the ministries interested in Sogin SpA will release the nullaosta for the publication of the CNAPI, which - as already mentioned - will represent only the time of initiation, and not of conclusion, of the long procedure. It will therefore be in the procedural stages following the publication of the preliminary draft national charter of the potentially suitable areas that may be invoked the requests mentioned by the questioner, also through the formal intercourse with the territorial authorities specifically concerned. Once all this has been clarified, there are serious concerns about certain press anticipations that suggest various locations since, to date, the proposal of CNAPI has been classified as "reserved" by Sogin SpA and as such is treated, in accordance with the current provisions, until its publication following the nullaosta that will be issued by the two ministries concerned. It is therefore difficult to give such advances a reliable value in the state. Finally, it is recalled that the participatory process that will begin from the publication of the CNAPI will culminate with the national seminar, during which will be deepened all the problems and technical aspects related to the national repository and the technological park that will host it, and then arrive at the final investigation of approval of the card on which can be formulated the declarations of interest by the regional administrations concerned that will be preparatory to the deepening of detail and the identification of the definitive site, according to the detailed and mandatory procedures defined by the aforementioned article 27.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u7	STEFANO (Misto-PugliaMiù-Sel). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for the sacrifice to which he was called today, because my question was addressed to another Ministry. I think it is a particularly significant fact that the Ministry of the Environment did not want to put its face on a question, which was presented a long time ago and which is putting an entire territory in great turmoil. In these minutes when I am speaking a public demonstration is taking place in Altamura to express an opinion contrary to the news always impacting. In this sense, I can only express absolute dissatisfaction, not with the answer given to me by the Undersecretary Castiglione, but with the approach by which we are dealing with an issue that takes on every day that goes bigger and more serious contours. In the meantime, Italy is now faced with the ax of a new infringement procedure that could be launched by the European Commission in the next few days, with regard to which I believe that the arguments put forward today by undersecretary Castiglione do not clarify or solve the doubt at all. Just yesterday, in fact, the ultimatum that the European offices have given on the indication of the site where to build the national deposit that the Government seems - and today the Undersecretary confirms - does not want to continue to consider, having preferred to leave in the sands the matter in order not to face and, therefore, to pay in terms of consensus the thorny difficulty of the identification of this area. The government's silence feeds alarmism in citizens who are constantly led to learn from the press that one day those waste will go to Sardinia, the other day in the Marches and one day, too many days a week, in Puglia. And all this is in spite of the overwhelming result of the referendum to which the Undersecretary referred. I am talking about the referendum on nuclear power which had in an incontrovertible way sanctioned the Italians' will to close the nuclear programme in our country, and not only with regard to the installations, but with respect to everything that nuclear power carries with it in terms of environmental protection and energy choice. All right - it is the only positive element that I can read in the Secretary's reply, because it is never too late to recover - to start a participatory and clear path of awareness on what is intended to be done about this deposit. I believe, however, that, in the territory covered by my question - the Murgia and, in general, Puglia - there are infrastructures and great works of incredible environmental impact. Puglia, my region, is therefore in danger of becoming an incredible minefield. The Trans-Adriatic Pipeline (TAP), drilling in the Adriatic, the scourge of ILVA and coal-fired power stations are realities that risk to upset the soul of this Region, which instead is and must remain authentic expression of choices and sustainable balances. It is out of all logic and without any sense the idea of placing this site in an area where the national park exists, which expresses - this yes - the vocation of an entire territory. Fitness assessments must necessarily take into account, cross-reference and contemplate unavoidable variables, which are not only those morphological or geographical, but above all social, economic and cultural ones of a territory. Only in this way will it be possible to obtain a fair and objective evaluation which, in the case of Murgia, would confirm its "no", even beyond the participatory path, which can only give negative results. The question I want to ask is only one: I would not want the participatory path to arrive when "the oxen have already escaped" because it must first cross the technical evaluations. We cannot wait for any company in charge to evaluate a site and call only after the territory to say "yes" or "no". Instead, it is necessary to question as soon as possible the territories on the sites considered potentially "suitable to host" based on that mapping. I wanted to express these assessments in support of my dissatisfaction, but also the concern that, on a subject such as the one under consideration, the Ministry of the Environment did not have the "face" to come here to tell us what the picture in which Italy is moving is.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-02207 on the spilling of fuel from the ENI pipeline in Tortona, in the province of Alexandria, on 17 June 2015. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u9	Madam President, with reference to the possible environmental damage caused by the theft of hydrocarbons caused by ENI, in the Municipality of Tortona, on the basis of the elements acquired by the Prefecture of Alexandria, the following is represented. On 17 June 2015, in the Municipality of Tortona, following an attempt to theft in damage of the local oil pipeline owned by ENI SpA, there was a spill of a large quantity of hydrocarbons, released from the plant. Following the incident, technicians of the relevant department of the Regional Agency for the Protection of the Environment (ARPA) have put in place the interventions to secure the site and the appropriate environmental verification operations, carrying out both a sampling of soil, and a collection of groundwater, near the point of escape of the fuel. In this respect, the results of the first investigations, carried out on 4 August on water drawn from the irrigation wells of two farmsteads, located 500 and 1500 metres from the spilling area respectively, confirmed high concentrations of solvents and hydrocarbons in the first well, promptly inhibited with a special order for both domestic and irrigation use. On 28 August, the ARPA carried out a second sampling, with the result of which there was a sharp deterioration in the quality of the underground water. The checks, extended also to other wells located in the territories of neighboring Municipalities, at a progressively increasing distance from the point of spilling, revealed a phenomenon of contamination of the layer, due to the event itself. In view of the results of the first analysis carried out by ARPA, the ASL carried out targeted checks on the Tortona aqueduct, the results of which were recorded in the standard. As regards the possible dangers of contamination for the surrounding agricultural fields cultivated, at the time of the facts, with maize and wheat, ASL excluded the existence of risk profiles, in view of the fact that the wheat, at the time of the spill, had already been harvested and due to the fact that maize does not require irrigation in the weeks preceding the harvest. The ASL has activated the public health and hygiene service and the veterinary service due to the presence, in the area affected by the pollution of the aquifer, of two farms and of a company producing cured meats. In parallel with the adoption of the aforementioned preventive and precautionary measures, a technical table was set up in the Province of Alexandria, consisting of ARPA, ASL and ENI, in order to monitor the evolution of the phenomenon and to take appropriate measures to protect public health. As part of the measures taken, ENI has carried out some removal points of the aquifer to limit the spread of contamination to the valley. Two emunte water treatment plants have been set up, for which the procedure for the single environmental authorization for sewage discharge and emission into the atmosphere has been instructed. On 9 October 2015 ENI sent to all the parties involved in the process the site characterisation plan, which collects information deriving from the activities already carried out for the safety of the site, describing the investigations it intends to carry out to define type, degree and extent of contamination. For the above-mentioned characterisation plan, discussed at the service conference on 29 October 2015, some insights were requested from ARPA and ASL. The new plan, integrated with the required in-depth analysis, will be discussed at the service conference on 22 January. The monitoring of the aquifer by ARPA and ENI at the private wells continues, downstream of the break-in point.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u12	Borioli (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his reply, to whom I must add, however, information which preludes the need for further study, by virtue of a communication which was made to me less than an hour ago by the local administrators. It seems that the phenomenon of the extension of the spilled fuel, which is gasoline and therefore particularly insidious for the wells, the fields and the activities, has not stopped. Therefore, in addition to the damage already produced, we are faced with a further extension of the area affected by the spilling of that material. And the vice mayor of Castelnuovo Scrivia, (a community of 6,000 inhabitants not far from Tortona and particularly interested, more than the same Municipality of Tortona, to this episode in its negative consequences) told me that tomorrow there will be an extraordinary summit in the Province on how to deal with this new emergency, which does not come from a new episode of forced entry brought to the plants by the pipeline, but from an extension of the damage already caused by material spills. Thanking the Undersecretary for the answer, I summarize the need and the solicitation that the Government maintains, through its intervention towards the agencies in charge and competent on the territory, a watchful attention so that in the meantime we try to adopt, if possible also urging ENI to speed up the interventions of its own responsibility, everything that must be done to stop the phenomenon and, therefore, avoid its further extension. We are talking about a further approximation from the mass of petrol to wells that would be compromised for a very long time. And, as you know, when the wells are polluted by petrol, they are not healed within a few months, but I remain years - if not decades - foreclosed to the possibility of being used also for irrigation activities in an area particularly suited to the agricultural economy, which would therefore receive enormous damage. Of course, the concern also concerns a particularly dense irrigation network. In that area, in fact, we are in the basin of the Po, in Castelnuovo Scrivia, an area full of canals and streams, and therefore strongly irrigation, which can suffer even more damage further evident by the fact that the harmful material finds the channels to propagate. Therefore, I recommend some attention and urge ENI to implement all necessary measures for the assiduous and timely monitoring of its structures. The paradox is that this phenomenon, so serious, is determined because of the fact that someone intervened there, dug up to reach the pipes of the pipeline and sucked gasoline, causing a damage that unfortunately we know has been facilitated by the lack of surveillance systems. Since we are not talking about a small company of little capital but a giant in this field, I believe it is legitimate, Mr Undersecretary, to ask that the ENI put in place all possible measures not only to protect its own facilities, but in particular to preserve the local populations and communities from the damage that may arise from them. Such a policy can be expected from such a company.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u13	The following question 3-02297, on the statement of the state of emergency for the Municipality of Licata, in the province of Agrigento, hit by an air trumpet on October 10, 2015. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the question put by Senator Campanella, whom I would like to thank, I would like to reassure the Senator on the timeliness of his speeches on the ground. I personally met with the administration, the mayor and many delegations of operators, so his report goes in the same direction as the government's attention to a sector and above all a very important area for the Sicilian agricultural economy. I would therefore like to thank you for this and, referring to the air horn of 10 October 2015, I assure you that the request for a declaration of 24 December 2015, which is currently being published in the Official Journal, has been fully accepted. With this measure the agricultural territories of the municipalities of Licata and Palma di Montechiaro have been delimited for damages to the business structures not insurable with facilitated policies, as is provided for by Legislative Decree no. 102 of 2004. To access the provisions provided for precisely by the legislative decree to which I referred, No 102 of 2004, and in particular the aid for the functional restoration of damaged structures, farmers will be able to apply to the Sicilian Region within forty-five days of the publication of the decree of declaratory. I know that not all interventions can be included in the measure we are about to take and, therefore, there is the utmost attention and availability. Today's solicitation of Senator Campanella pushes us further to carry out the decree of declaratory, to follow its publication and above all to respond in a particularly interesting area, which suffered very significant damage following the air trumpet of October. Senator Campanella, thank you again for the question and we will inform you of the procedures that will follow the publication of the decree of declaration in the Official Journal and the activation of the immediate interventions. We will also check the existence of damage not included in those which may be the subject of compensation for agricultural undertakings.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u17	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Castiglione for his reply. I say immediately that I suspend my assessment and, not so much for the answer given that, in the letter, it accepts the reasons for my question, but for what will be the actual implementation. I know from very recent news that the operators in the area are still in the difficult situation that you know about the gravity of the event. By the way, we know that those air trumpets arrived during the plant harvest phase, causing enormous damage to the entire area. They are, therefore, in great difficulty and have no confidence that the intervention of the Government is at such an advanced point, as you described. Thank you very much for your willingness and commitment to let me know as soon as possible and I will have the pleasure - I hope - of bringing back the satisfaction of the operators when the problem will actually be solved in material terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u18	The following is Question 3-02164 on the procedures for the identification and reception of 69 Nigerian women from Libya. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u19	Madam President, with the question on the agenda, the signatory Senators put to the attention of the Ministry of the Interior the matter of 69 women of Nigerian nationality held in the center of identification and expulsion of Ponte Galeria in Rome, focusing in particular on the role of the territorial Commissions for the recognition of international protection, as well as on the procedures for conducting the hearings for the validation of detention in the IECs. On 23 July last year the border police carried out a charter flight for the transfer of 68 Nigerian towns to the CIE of Ponte Galeria, which had landed on the Sicilian coasts. The transfer was necessary due to the fact that the Nigerian citizens had declared, at the time of identification, that they had arrived in Italy for reasons of work and therefore, not being in compliance with the rules on residence, had been addressed to measures of refusal and detention issued by the quaestors of Agrigento and Syracuse. Incidentally, I would point out that, in general, already in the immediacy of landings, the identifying activity of foreigners takes place with procedures that guarantee full respect for their rights. In fact, through the help of qualified interpreters and cultural mediators, any protection needs represented by immigrants are promptly communicated to the staff of the police station. The Nigerian towns were also visited by medical personnel who, after the ritual checks aimed at verifying the absence of disease of an infectious nature or a debilitated state of health excluding forced detention, prepared the medical certificate on their fitness for travel. At the time of access to the CIE of Ponte Galeria, the same towns were further subjected to an accurate health visit, following which 4 of them were found to be pregnant, this condition which - as is known - makes people inexellable. As a result, for two of them there was no entry into the center, as they were accompanied at a special facility located in via Pineta Sacchetti, from where, moreover, one of the two subsequently moved away. The other two pregnant women were resigned from the IEC on 24 and 25 July. Following the validation of the measures of refusal and detention by the judicial authorities, the remaining 64 Nigerian citizens formalized an application for international protection. Since the hearing of foreign nationals had been set by the Commission after the end of the period of detention, the Rome police department requested the extension, actually granted on 17 August by the ordinary court of Rome, in order to allow foreign nationals, in order to protect their own interests, to attend the hearing, which was prepared as a matter of urgency at the IEC. In relation then to the completion of the validation hearing of the quaestile order for extension at the CIE and not at the court, I would like to point out that the ordinary court has opted for the first solution for logistical and organizational reasons, also related to the protection of public order, as well as in order to allow the conduct of the hearing of extension within 48 hours of the application, in the presence of the interested parties, in accordance with the request of their defender. On the other hand, as regards the request for the defence to deal with the proceedings in public hearing, it should be noted that, in the present case, the relevant procedural conditions did not appear to exist. The procedure in question is, in fact, subject to chamber ritual, with consequent treatment in the chamber of council, to protect the requirements of confidentiality, dealing with subjective positions entirely peculiar. With regard to the CIE of Ponte Galeria, I would point out that the structure has been specially designed to meet, in compliance with the confidentiality of persons and the good conduct of judicial proceedings, also the needs of the defence of the interested parties. In fact, inside are set up special spaces for interviews between assisted and legal who can access it without restrictions, while other spaces are used as courtroom. Coming to another of the questions raised with this question, I would like to stress that the complex activity of the territorial commissions is carried out with high professionalism and impartiality, on the basis of an in-depth geopolitical knowledge of the countries of origin of asylum seekers. In fact, the members of the territorial commissions carry out an initial compulsory training course and subsequent refresher courses organized by the National Commission for the Right of Asylum. In particular, as regards the availability and updating of information on the countries of origin, reference is made to the IOC unit of the national Commission, which works in close cooperation with the European Asylum Support Office. In this case, the Territorial Commission of Rome, taking into account the particular Nigerian context where there is no need for armed conflict, and the possibility that applicants would be victims of trafficking in human beings, offered support to all asylum seekers, addressing them to the association "BeFree" which deals with these issues and with which a specific convention is in force. Finally, I note that the Territorial Commission of Rome normally carries out the hearings of Nigerian citizens with the participation of an official of Rome Capital, an expert on the situation of that country, and the representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees who can provide their qualified input. Returning to the situation of the Nigerian group of women, I inform you that in the current state 20 women are returned, while the remaining women have been discharged by the IEC for different reasons: in particular, 32 cases for the acceptance by the judge of the application for suspension of the decree of detention in the structure; in 7 cases for the granting of the residence permit for humanitarian reasons; in one case for the granting of refugee status; in 3 cases for the granting of subsidiary protection; in one case for health reasons. These are the facts, from which I think it is clear that Nigerian citizens have had the opportunity to exercise their rights fully under the law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u22	Mr Albano (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Bubbico for his reply. My hope is that the territorial committees will work with the utmost guarantee of the rights of information and protection of vulnerable people, such as women or unaccompanied minors, and that appropriate reception facilities will be able to accommodate them at a time when asylum applications are being instructed, which sometimes goes beyond the calendar year. I also hope, personally, that the maximum possible protection will be maintained for the many migrants who come to Italy and we can continue to take into account also the motivations that drive so many people to flee from their countries of origin and their psychophysical conditions, as in the case of the three women in an interesting state.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u23	The following is Question 3-02332 on the Mafia threats against journalist Michele Inserra. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Bencini, together with other senators, in recalling certain intimidations addressed to journalist Michele Inserra, who has long been engaged in investigations and services on the most difficult realities of the country, asks to know what are the protective measures that the Ministry intends to take for its safety. As reported by the interrogators, Dr. Inserra, head of the editorial staff of Reggio Calabria for "Il Quotidiano del Sud" (The South Daily), is a well-known journalist who deals mainly with judicial reporting and is an external collaborator of RAI 1 for the television broadcast "Uno Mattina-Storie Vere" (One Mattina-Storie Vere). On 3 March last year, the journalist carried out an update on the case of the mysterious disappearance in 2009 of Mrs. Barbara Corvi, wife of a subject related to a well-known cosca of the Calabrian 'ndrangheta. In the event, the same, accompanied by a television crew, approached the house, located in the province of Terni, where Mrs. Corvi lived before her disappearance, crossing a bordering ground. The presence of the cameras was noticed by the husband of the missing woman, who, approaching the crew to get her away from their land, addressed threatening phrases to the journalist. During the broadcast, aired on March 17, on RAI 1, no mention was made of any threats received by the journalist. Only on October 12 last the professional denounced the happened to the police station of Reggio Calabria, since - as reported by the same - had assumed that RAI had presented an exposition on the episode because of the presence of own employees. The complaint was, therefore, sent for territorial competence by the royal prosecutor to the ternan prosecutor. I inform you that the professional had already been the subject of threats in relation to the investigations conducted. I refer in particular to what happened on March 22, 2010 in Siderno, where, in front of the door of the provincial editorial office "Il Quotidiano della Calabria" had been found a cartridge and a clipping of newspaper bearing the name of the journalist. On July 27, 2012, the professional had received, by mail, a small reproduction of a package of toilet paper and on September 24, 2012, the same had denounced the break-in of his car and the subtraction of a computer, paper material and a pen drive. More recently, he dealt with the so-called bows of sacred effigies before houses of exponents of 'ndrangheta during processions in the municipalities of the Province of Reggio Calabria. In fact, in 2014 he carried out a journalistic service on the religious procession held in Oppido Mamertina, during which the carriers of the "vara" - that is, of the cart on which statues or paintings of saints are placed carried precisely in procession - arrived near the home of a well-known local prejudiced, would have bowed. These are the facts. As for the protection measures to protect the journalist, I would like to point out that since April 2010 the prefecture of Reggio Calabria had placed the general surveillance service connected to its home and the offices of the newspapers of the Province of Reggio Calabria. The tutorial measure was then revoked in May 2013. The measure was reactivated on 25 July 2014, following the new examination of the risk exposure of the journalist, during a technical meeting of police coordination, held at the prefecture of Reggio Calabria with the participation of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic, holder of the Anti-Mafia District Direction. In the first half of last year the tutorial measures were intensified and reinforced twice following the acquisition of confidential news provided by the Forces of Order. Following the denunciation of the threats received during the registration of the journalistic service in Terni, a further intensification of the generic radio-connected surveillance device was arranged. Analoga measure was adopted by the prefect of Naples at the bell house of the journalist's family. Finally, I would like to assure the questioners that the journalist's position in terms of personal security is constantly monitored, as demonstrated by the initiatives taken by the competent provincial public security authorities. I would add that the police have continuous and constant contact with the person concerned, precisely in order to grasp any symptomatic situation of possible risks to his safety.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u27	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, I thank Deputy Minister Bubbico. What I want to stress and that I am pleased, first of all, that the public security authorities are taking care of this situation. It is not new, it is not the first and it will not be the last, unfortunately, because it is news of five days ago that to another journalist, Pasqualino Rettura, always of the newspaper - evidently a little 'targeted - "The South Daily, the car was set on fire. This journalist, like the other, also deals with issues of 'ndrangheta and mafia. This is therefore probably a very pervasive problem in this environment, and this is at the expense of people who do this profession and the freedom to inform the population and to express themselves. Beyond the need to protect individuals such as these who are personally affected (journalists, like other public subjects such as may also be parliamentarians and politicians in general), it is important to try to activate all the competences that can stem similar phenomena of 'ndrangheta, mafia and camorra that pervade, unfortunately, our territory and that concern not only the regions known or to which such phenomena are usually charged. It has in fact been seen that these phenomena are manifested in many aspects and various forms throughout Italy. The hope is that our Forces of Order, intelligence and all that the State can put on the field to curb these phenomena will be put on the field, to protect people, the population and a country that travels in the law and in the most absolute justice.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u28	Following is the question 3-02344, on a demonstration against the NATO Trident Juncture exercise 2015 in the Municipality of Teulada, in the province of Cagliari. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Cotti, together with other interrogators, asks for clarification on the measure by which the police in Cagliari would have banned the protest demonstration of 3 November in the area adjacent to and outside the military base of Teulada, theatre of the Trident Juncture exercise 2015. I would like to state at once that the demonstration in question has not been banned at all, but only subject to specific regulations for reasons of order and public security. The measure of the quaestor of Cagliari, duly notified to the organizers the day before, ordered, in fact, the performance of the demonstration in static form with a prohibition to give course to marches towards the fence of the military installation. The prescription became necessary because the organizers of the event, through press statements and posters, had signalled the intention of wanting to stop the training activities in progress, arbitrarily exceeding the boundary fence. In addition, the preventive control activities carried out by the Carabinieri company of Carbonia, in the days preceding the initiative, had led to the identification around the military site of several members of the local anarchist circles, in part already reported to the judicial authority for crimes committed at the occasion of previous demonstrations, in which against, among other things, the quaestor of Cagliari had adopted the measure of prohibition of return to the Municipalities of Sant'Anna Arresi and Teulada for a period of three years. I will come back to this later. Let's go by order. The event in question has been carefully examined, in advance, both by the Cagliari Prefecture, in the framework of general coordination, and by the police, in terms of information and technical and operational coordination. In particular, the issues related to the initiative were examined at various technical meetings of police coordination, including in the presence of regional and provincial military summits. On the occasion, the various profiles related to the planning of the services of order and public security, aimed at preserving the regular performance of military exercises and the protection of the objectives, including civil ones, involved in the demonstrations, were analysed. On the other hand, due consideration - as usual - has been given to the need to allow the free expression of ideas and the conduct of non-violent contestation initiatives. In line with this line, the security device set up by the police, consisting of 130 operators of the State Police, the Carabinieri's Army and the Finance Guard, together with a helicopter of the State Police, has been targeted, as already mentioned, to prevent the protesters from accessing the area of the Teulada polygon where the military exercise was in progress. As widely announced on the websites of the antagonism, and in contrast to the prescriptions arranged by the quaestor, on the date set, that is, on 3 November, about 600 demonstrators gathered at the provincial road 73 in order to reach the locality Porto Pino and, from there, access to the inside of the polygon of Capo Teulada. In the event there were moments of tension, especially when police officers opposed the access of demonstrators to the military area. Two operators in the state police mobile department suffered injuries, fractured ribs in one case and wrist in the other. Some protesters have been identified and referred to the judicial authority. In any case, the public order devices put in place have allowed to contain and prevent further forms of violence and to avoid the unlawful blocking of the military exercise, while ensuring the free conduct of the demonstration at a proper distance from the fences of the military installation and the safety of those who participated in it. These are the facts, which testify, in the opinion of the administration of the interior, of the balance and of the attention, not disjoined by firmness, with which the authorities of public security and the police have managed the matter. I also assure the future of the commitment of the public authorities to ensure the serene and regular conduct of any peaceful initiative, that it is an expression of the freedom of manifestation of thought constitutionally guaranteed, preventing and countering, however, situations that may endanger public order and security.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u32	Cotti (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for this answer, which I am not satisfied with at all. The information provided by the representative of the Government is, in my opinion, absolutely biased. Moreover, he himself said that the prevention of possible violence or trespassing in agreement with the military authorities was organized; I believe that this was instead a political discouragement of a demonstration and an expression of thought, which, among other things, is defended by Articles 16 and 17 of the Constitution. The reaction of the Forces of the Order for a slight deviation by the protesters from the areas where they had been practically incarcerated was absolutely disproportionate. For about forty protesters who decided to deviate from the planned path there was a disproportionate reaction against all protesters, with particular aim towards seventy-year-old ladies. I do not know why women have been targeted in particular, obviously they wanted to discourage politically the implementation of such initiatives in the future too. I consider this to be serious. Evidently, the Ministry did not consider to hear the version of the protesters as well. Personally I will commit myself in the future to being present at this kind of demonstration, because when you go to touch - who knows why - the military polygons happen things that I have never seen in other kinds of demonstrations, with provocations that come - alas I must say - from the Forces of order and not from the demonstrators. There are also protesters, perhaps a little excited, who could easily be managed in another way, without repressing the democratic rights of the Italians.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u33	The following are questions 2-00160 and 3-02066 and 3-02128 on the decriminalisation of the crime of non-payment of social security contributions. I call Senator Blundo to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u34	Madam President, we have an economic crisis which has been driven by political choices of recession and which is still under way. It has hit our country and above all the small and very small entrepreneurs, who in reality constitute much of the social economic fabric of the country. Many of them, in addition to unfortunately having to close their economic activity, have also found themselves unable in recent years to fulfil even the minimum social obligations provided by the law in favour of workers, meeting criminal convictions that have terribly complicated the possibility of being on the market and that have generated serious situations, as well as suicides. From this requirement comes the forecast contained in Law No. 67 of 2014, which states that "Delegations to the Government in the matter of non-convict prison sentences and reform of the sanctioning system, as well as provisions in the matter of suspension of the procedure with test and against the irretrievable", published in the Official Gazette No. 100 of 2 May 2014, in which the Government is delegated to issue legislative decrees that transform from criminal offence into administrative unlawful, up to a maximum amount predefined, the omitted payment of contributions on behalf of the worker by the employer. More precisely, in the letter c) of paragraph 2 of Article 2, it was intended to transform the offence referred to in article 2, paragraph 1-a, of Decree-Law No 463, converted, with amendments, by Law No 638 of 11 November 1983, provided that the omitted payment does not exceed the total limit of 10,000 euros per year and preserving, in any case, the principle that the employer does not respond as an administrative offence if he makes payment within the period of three months after the dispute or notification of the finding of the violation. According to paragraph 4 of Article 2 of the law, the legislative decrees provided for in paragraph 1 were to be adopted within eighteen months of the date of entry into force of this law, on a proposal from the Minister of Justice, in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. It was, therefore, in the availability of the Government the possibility to evaluate, taking into account the urgency of the various and numerous cases, the adoption of several legislative decrees, even with different time periods, provided that in the final period of the eighteen months. In the months that preceded the exercise of the delegation by the Government have occurred discordant pronunciations on the topic. First of all, with the judgments No 17024 of 2014 and No 9264 of 2014, the Supreme Court of Cassation had decided not to criminalise entrepreneurs who, due to the serious economic crisis, were unable to pay taxes and social security contributions on behalf of workers. However, with judgment n. 20547, filed on 19 May 2015, the third criminal section of the Court of Cassation rejected the appeal of a morous entrepreneur, establishing that the omission of the payment of social security and welfare contributions was still criminal and therefore the entrepreneurs under trial could not yet invoke the decriminalization provided for by the law of delegation and therefore obtain a dismissal on the assumption that the crime of non-payment would be subject only to an administrative penalty, as provided for precisely by the law of delegation itself. On the subject, the courts of merit had not only pronounced themselves negative, but had also accepted the demands of small entrepreneurs in difficulty. The courts of Bari and Asti, for example, had in fact applied the rule in favour of two entrepreneurs, who in the past were in a position to not be able to pay contributions worth 6,000 euros, making their criminal liability for the omitted payment, but not that of administrative unlawful. More specifically, the court of Asti had specified that the law of delegation n. 67 was not limited to regulating the internal relations between the Government and Parliament, but was a directly productive source of legal norms: this for the emergency condition in which small and very small entrepreneurs are placed. These discordant judgments have obviously generated confusion and further confusion among the small and very small entrepreneurs in difficulty, to the point of prompting the undersigned to request several times from the Government, with questions, questions and numerous interventions at the end of the session, the rapid exercise of the delegation. On the other hand, the many cases of non-punctual payment of contributions by employers do not derive from the unwillingness of individuals, in many cases, but from a tax system that chokes small business activities and puts in a position to not be able to pay the due. The small entrepreneurship, while constituting the backbone of the Italian economy, has been repeatedly vexed by the economic choices of the last governments, to the point that the closures of activities and the number of unemployed, with situations of difficulty, have increased exponentially, which have also resulted in dramatic suicides, as I had previously mentioned. After Parliament has repeatedly encouraged the Government to intervene on these issues, the Council of Ministers finally approved, on 17 November 2015, the draft legislative decree and, by establishing the principle of worker protection, the financial penalties provided in place of criminal penalties, which appear to be not quite fair for those employers who, due to the economic crisis, could not pay even small amounts of money as contributions, within the range of 10,000 euros provided for in the delegation. Paragraph 6 of Article 3 of the draft decree states, in fact, that the omitted payment of contributions for amounts exceeding 10,000 euros per year is punished with imprisonment up to three years and fine up to 1,032 euros. If the omitted amount is not more than € 10,000 per year, the administrative penalty from € 10,000 to € 50,000 shall apply if the employer fails to pay the contributions within three months of the dispute or notification of the finding of the infringement. As a 5 Star Movement we take the credit of having pointed out this problem several times and of having tabled the amendment that decriminalized the failure to pay contributions by the employer; however, the care provided by the Government - of which Mr Undersecretary will certainly speak to us in response - seems not to be so effective, indeed it risks creating other problems, even more serious. In fact, the omitted payment of withholding taxes above 10,000 euros per year is punished with imprisonment up to three years and with a fine up to 1,032 euros, while if the omission consists of an amount up to 10,000 euros per year the administrative penalty from 10,000 to 50,000 euros applies. Without prejudice to the moral and legal obligation, recognised by any entrepreneur, to pay - rightly - contributions on behalf of each worker, it must also be pointed out that if this measure was born to help entrepreneurs who in recent years of economic crisis have found themselves in serious difficulties in payments, the method of exercising the delegation by the Government (pulse from 10,000 to 50,000 euros) appears more contradictory, because it is decided to impose a penalty of much greater amount than it has been able to pay, especially in some cases. In practice, the decriminalization measure objectively dumps the courts with work, but it is not a real relief for entrepreneurs in difficulty. I hope that the Deputy Minister will be convincing in explaining in detail the reasons that have led to this result. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government may reply in conjunction with the question and the question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u35	Madam President, with the acts of inspection union today under discussion, it is asked to know what are the times of adoption of the legislative decree implementing the delegation law 28 April 2014, n. 67, in the matter of non-convict prison sentences and reform of the sanctioning system. In the opinion of the interrogators, the need to intervene on the matter, even in a matter of urgency, at the initiative of the Minister of Justice, would also be based on the jurisprudential contrast outlined in the mores of the solicited implementing decree in relation to the criminal importance of the omitted payment of withholding taxes, in cases of limited offensiveness. The specific reference is to article 2, paragraph 2, letter c), of the aforementioned law delegation, which provides for the transformation into administrative unlawful of the crime of non-payment of social security and welfare claims (as provided for in article 2, paragraph 1-a of Decree-Law No. 463 of 1983, converted, with modifications, by Law No. 638 of 1983), provided that the omitted amount does not exceed the total limit of 10,000 euros per year, without prejudice to the possibility of extinction of the administrative violation in case of full payment of the amount due within the period of three months after the dispute or notification of the finding. That said, it should be recalled that the delegation law No 67 of 2014 was published in the Official Journal No 100 of 2 May 2014 and entered into force on the following 17 May. With it the Government has been delegated to adopt one or more legislative decrees for the reform of the sanctioning system according to certain principles and guiding criteria, as enshrined in Article 76 of the Constitution. Among these, the provision to exclude the punishable conduct with the sole pecuniary penalty or with prison sentences not exceeding five years, in the sole cases where the particular extent of the offence and the non-usuality of the conduct, without prejudice to the exercise of the civil action for the compensation of the damage, are found. Another guiding criterion of delegation concerns the transformation into administrative offences of certain offences included in the penal code - and related to events deemed of minor offense and whose good-interest can be considered adequately protected through the use of the administrative penalty - and of offences for which only the financial penalty of the fine or fine is provided. Of course, matters which are susceptible to forms of aggression with greater disvalue, such as building, urban planning, the environment, land and landscape, food and drink, health and safety at work, public safety, gambling and betting, weapons and explosives, elections and party financing, as well as intellectual and industrial property, are excluded from the delegation, considering that the legal circumstances in these areas must remain criminally sanctioned. In the light of the above, it is clear that the Government has been entrusted with the implementation of the delegation in accordance with strict principles and criteria which, on time contained in the law of delegation of the Chambers, have identified the modalities to be followed and the objectives to be achieved, delimiting the margin of manoeuvre reserved for the Executive. As far as the Ministry of Justice's competence is concerned, I can state that, in accordance with the timetable indicated for the exercise of the delegation, the organic structure of the implementing legislative decrees was promptly prepared by the competent legislative office and was promptly submitted to the necessary and preliminary assessments by the Minister. At its meeting on 13 November last, the Council of Ministers also approved, during the preliminary examination, the draft legislative decree laying down the rules on the decriminalization of the crime of non-payment of social security claims referred to in the question. In article 3 paragraph 6 of the aforementioned decree is in fact previewed the application of an administrative penalty if the omitted payment of withholdings social security is not greater than the amount of 10.000 euros annual. I would like to point out that pursuant to and for the effect of Article 2 (4) of the delegation law of 28 April 2014, n. 67, the legislative provision was promptly forwarded to the competent parliamentary committees that issued the relevant opinions. The text is therefore ready to be sent to the Council of Ministers for final approval, by the next 17th, the date of expiry of the delegation to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u38	PEPE (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Madam President, thank you for the attention that the Deputy Minister has given us. This is a question of justice and usefulness: it is useful for workers who are paid their due contributions and who are insured for future work; it is justice for those who have repented in the terms laid down by law and find themselves in a condemnation penalising for themselves and for their own company, but above all unjust and discriminatory. So I am satisfied with the government's commitment, but I regret the lack of timing, if you will allow me, Mr. Deputy Minister, that may have penalised citizens who, at this point, should see the benefits of law recognized. I propose to the Government a transitional regulation that can heal the cases that may have occurred to the detriment of the citizens in the mores of the enactment of the decree-legislative implementation, that is, a retroactive rule that saves those who have repented but has not seen recognized their own repentance in the absence of the implementing decree.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u41	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to say that this questioning was even on 4 June 2014, so before I enter into the substance of your reply, let me point out that the Government has waited eighteen months - the maximum time provided for by the delegation law - for the enactment of the legislative decrees, despite the difficulties experienced and denounced by the entrepreneurs and despite the fact that these are tremendously current. This testifies to how the answers of the institutions, in this case of the Government, are terribly slow when they are called to decide on issues and problems that touch the living flesh of the citizens, and then assume sudden accelerations on issues that instead do not arouse great interest, such as the reform of the Senate. Having said that, after listening to your reply, I absolutely cannot say that I am fully satisfied, because I have been given an answer that I already knew, that is, I am told in this House what I already knew since 17 November. Providing an administrative penalty of 10,000 to 50,000 euros for the omitted payment of withholding tax within 10,000 euros per year means that we risk charging this penalty to those who might owe 70-80 euros. It is a decision on which it is at least mandatory to reflect. We fully agree that the sanction should act as a deterrent and prevent the proliferation of counter-legem actions and behaviours, the respect of which must be guaranteed, but it should be pointed out that the amendment decriminalizing the omitted payment of contributions was born only and exclusively to give relief to those small entrepreneurs who fail to fulfil their tax obligations due to existing, real economic difficulties. Medicine risks being ineffective in the treatment of a situation that is paradoxical: on the one hand, 90% of the investigations carried out by the Revenue Agency are notified to small entrepreneurs (source: "La Repubblica", on the other hand, the inexpensive credits of Equitalia, the Agency's collection agency, amount to 601 billion, against a public debt of 2,100 billion euros. I would like to take up what my colleague said, who previously invoked a transitional rule. I seriously call on you to tackle this situation and to really give small and very small entrepreneurs the opportunity to see their situations healed, without any further increase. The real problem, Mr. Deputy Minister, is that the Revenue Agency and Equitalia continue to be strong with the weak and weak with the strong and that the Government cannot put in place a serious policy of combating tax evasion, especially that attributable to the usual large and well-known industrial and financial groups, quite different from the small entrepreneurs who are within the 10,000 euros per year. Perhaps it would have been more appropriate to identify other more decisive instruments, such as - although not fully applicable in the case of non-payment of INPS contributions - the single 30% penalty for omitted or insufficient VAT payments. I therefore find myself completely dissatisfied, because the answer is late and not relevant to the current situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u42	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u43	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-561.ana.u44	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 19 January, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.15 p.m.
