ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u6	TONINI (PD). Mr President, as all colleagues know next week we have on the agenda of this House the conversion of two important decrees-laws: the first is the earthquake decree, on which the Government tabled an amendment last night containing the entire second earthquake decree; then, again next week, we have the examination of the tax decree-law. Both matters are currently being examined by the 5th Commission and, in the case of the tax decree, by the 6th Commission. We therefore have a certain jam in our work as the Commission and we would need, on behalf of all the groups in the 5th, to work on Tuesday morning too. We therefore call for the House not to be convened on Tuesday morning to allow the 5th Commission (maybe along with the 6th with regard to the tax decree but certainly for the earthquake decree) to work. The Commission is already convened this afternoon and Monday. Perhaps we will also need Tuesday morning, and I think it would be very useful for our work if the House and the Presidency were to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u9	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have no objection to the substance of the matter because we agree on the principle and content, with the priority being to resolve the problems of our earthquake victims. On Tuesday morning two motions are scheduled, at the first signature of Senator Centinario, which we request, either from the Group Leader or with the consent of the Assembly, to be called into question in the Assembly after the earthquake measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u12	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). President. - I would also like to make a remark similar to that of Senator Candiani, because my Group's signature is also included in the motion on pensions. We therefore tend to agree that the Budget Committee should be able to work. The important thing is that immediately after that there is the possibility of approving the motion on pensions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u13	Colleagues, it seems to me that there is convergence on the opportunity to upset the afternoon sitting on Tuesday. So, Tuesday will only be the afternoon session at 4:30 p.m. The motions on the calendar will be calendarized immediately after the examination of the decree on the earthquake and the tax decree. As there are no comments, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u16	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have expressed our agreement and we are absolutely convinced that this should be the case. However, what President Tonini told us this morning must raise the Presidency's attention on one particular issue. As Commissions 5a and 6a we are called, at the end of the Assembly's work, to discuss the tax decree of which, until a few minutes ago, the text was not yet available. As we are involved in the work of this House, I ask you what the feasibility of our Commissions is to examine a text which is not available. This shows the consideration that the Government and, at this point, the Presidency also have of this Parliament, of this House and of its members. Since, among other things, this decree-law is moving towards yet another vote of confidence, Mr President, it would have been a good thing to avoid passing into the Commissions, to come directly to the House for the vote of confidence and, after the next reform, to abolish Parliament itself definitively. [[Applause from Senators Bertacco and Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u17	In response to Senator D'Alì's observation, I would point out that the text of the tax decree was forwarded to the Presidency yesterday evening. It is therefore available in the form of a photocopy and is currently in print. [[Senator D'Alì's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u20	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to put to the House a proposal to reverse the agenda, in the hope that this House will be able to accept the immediate treatment of the wine bill. This is a measure, as I believe colleagues know, which has long been awaited by the whole chain, and which has also worked very hard before with colleagues in the House of Members and, then, also with our Commission. Our Commission has already voted unanimously on this measure. I would like to thank all the political forces who immediately understood the usefulness of accelerated work which would enable the measure to be approved without amendments, as we intended. All political forces have agreed on this. However, our offices and the Commission have identified in the text an error of some seriousness which necessarily requires an amendment and this makes it inevitable that a third reading should be made after our desired approval. I realize that I have to ask for the understanding of my colleagues in the Health Commission who, in turn, had and have done an important job on the measure we began the examination yesterday and whose continuation was planned this morning. If, however, the House were to accept the reverse of the agenda, I believe that we could proceed quickly with the adoption of the draft wine law, given that very few amendments have been tabled and, therefore, the vote could take place quickly. Today's approval of the bill would allow the Chamber Commission, with which the agreement has already intervened (assembled in the legislative next week), to finally approve the provision on wine that - I come back to say - is strongly awaited by the whole sector. I therefore trust that you will understand, Mr President, and that of all my fellow Members, so that this reversal of the agenda can be accepted. [[Applause from Senator Rossi Luciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u23	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, what Mr Formigoni has just said is also shared by our Group. This is as far as possible on the basis of the time available, given the importance of this measure which, moreover, finds wide sharing by all wine associations, which have found a unanimous convergence on all the regulatory aspects that regulate the matter. Considering also the aspect related to article 74, which led to a certain change of course, thanks to the attention that the Senate has paid to the matter, picking up this anomaly, we have the confirmation that the Senate also serves, whatever is said about it. I therefore agree with President Formigoni's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u26	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, of course you are sorry, because we are examining the key measure for health throughout the parliamentary term. So, its importance is obvious. However, we turn to the recognition of an institutional importance that is undeniable. We only hope that we will be able to conclude the examination of our measure within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u29	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to point out that we support Mr Formigoni's proposal, because of the importance and urgency of dealing with this draft law. I would like to point out that on this occasion we are giving a plastic demonstration of the importance of the Senate and of bicameralism, where with this passage we have the possibility to correct a mistake, recognized, by the other House. Since in this historical phase bicameralism seems to be a sort of error of the Constituents, we are demonstrating that it is not and that, probably, it would be a mistake if this reform were to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u30	Colleagues, it seems to me that there is a convergence of the whole House on this proposal to reverse the agenda. So there is no need to proceed to the vote either. My colleagues in the sector are committed to concluding the examination of the measure so that we can then move on to the next one. As there are no comments, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u31	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2535, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 1287, 1614 and 1615. The speakers, Senators Panizza and Pignedoli, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Panizza.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I am very pleased to note that this House has recognised the importance of this measure, so I am putting my own illustrative report on the various articles to the record and I will confine myself to highlighting the most significant changes in the text. I would like to thank President Formigoni and all the members of the Committee on Agriculture, the co-rapporteur, Mrs Pignedoli, all the political groups for sharing and the sense of responsibility they have shown: this is not the first time for the 9th Commission, but this is particularly significant. I would also like to thank Deputy Minister Olivero who has followed the whole process of the measure, making himself available to meet all the requests from the Commission. The bill had a long gestation in the House, in a complex and articulated confrontation with all the representatives of the wine sector and this was a success for the broad and convinced sharing that we could also see directly in the hearings and that convinced everyone not to hinder or slow down its path. It is a concerted measure, able to unite the world of the economy with that of politics and I believe that this is a signal that is good for Italy. Turning quickly to merit, the bill has two main objectives, the first of which is to recognize the value of the sector. Article 1 defines wine, vine and vineyards as a cultural heritage to be valued and protected, with particular attention to quality, geographical and origin certification, so-called heroic and historical vineyards, native vines, niche productions, various products related to wine and cooked must, grape juices and vinegar. At the same time it responds to the economic role of the sector, which constitutes the largest voice of the country's agri-food export and one of the most important and characteristic symbols of Made in Italy. Finally, the measure aims to put order in a very complex regulatory landscape, conditioned by European, national, local and regional regulations that have made it impossible to coordinate and harmonise organic rules, according to criteria of simplification, co-responsibility of operators, rationalization of controls also in the light of a general need for legal certainty. Hence the introduction of the vineyard register, the rules on certification and the provision of European protection on designations of origin and geographical indications, production specifications, protection consortia, wine competitions. Having decided not to table amendments, except the technical amendments submitted to the Assembly, in order to facilitate the rapid adoption of the measure, the 9th Commission has accepted many requests submitted by the different Groups and accepted also by the Government. As rapporteurs we have presented some agendas concerning new planting permits, treated and mountain vineyards, interaction with the tourism sector, representation in consortia and simplification. I would like to add further comments to my colleague Mrs Pignedoli, the co-rapporteur for the measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Pignedoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u33	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues, who have understood how important it is for the wine sector to adopt this measure quickly. The Commission and all the members of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development who are now giving up thinking and making further changes, giving priority to the importance of the measure and to the expectations of thousands of farms in the sector. I find this an attitude of great responsibility and political maturity which honours this House. I will also hand over the part of my report on the Article, and I will just point out some of the new features of this text. The first is the way in which the draft law originated, that is, from a proposal born within the representation of the agricultural and entrepreneurial world of wine, which showed that it is possible to play an important role of proposal and not only of individual claims and that working together agrees. This is a work with which the representation of wine and Parliament together have achieved an unprecedented result: it is a full text, but a long-term synthesis of several laws at national and European level; a reorder that, while trying to harmonise, has updated, simplified, introduced innovative systems indispensable in the time of computer science and digitization. The key points of this measure are, precisely, the simplification of procedures: simplification from the control systems. This is the great challenge of the wine and agri-food sector in general, which is not easy, because it means being able to simplify the procedures and procedures while maintaining the strictness of controls; because it is on safety, on the guarantees of food safety that the reputation of our wine system is based, therefore, on a competitive strategy. More effective controls and less complicated means connecting the bodies responsible for controls; it means databases of the National Computer System (SIAN) that build, given after data, the precise, detailed profile of each company; it means that can be possible targeted interventions, even remote controls, with less travel, less time, less costs; it means reduction of paper registers, reduction of only formal communications, that is those cards that certify other cards without affecting the real process. A simplification that finally introduces the proportionality criterion, as my colleague Mr Panizza said: there can be no identical path of procedures, the same complexity for the large company and the small business. Specific rules are introduced in proportion to the size of production. According to the great principle that characterizes the whole measure is distinctiveness as a competitive factor and transparency together; therefore, a clear information of the elements of distinctiveness: a measurable distinctiveness, not only based on suggestions. Hence the precise definition of autochthonous grape varieties, the precise indication on the label of the presence of high-quality grape varieties, if present in a fixed percentage, precise limits to the classic, historical, reserve quality; more transparency systems for the first time together with the state mark for the most valuable wines; telematic control systems are included also to wines of geographical indication, those of daily consumption and of greater commercial diffusion, but that aim more and more to quality and safety: a tool for consumers of greater knowledge and real information. Several points concern instruments and procedures that increase product traceability, information on the bottler when it is not specified precisely, the obligation to publish customs data on wine imports, importing companies and quantities, public information. And within this objective, which holds together high quality and greater simplification, we try to introduce a new logic, that is the idea that public system, business and conscious consumers can be valuable allies in the protection of quality, because security and distinctiveness are fundamental factors for citizens and together strategic competitive factors; the idea that the enterprise is not the enemy to be distrusted always and in any case, but an important ally; the idea that increasing controls not only means and always deploying more men and armies, but develop social control, widespread, of entrepreneurs who first defend the reputation of productions because every fraud, every illegality produces a damage to the whole system, of citizens who with more information, are valuable controllers and can strongly influence the market orientations; the idea that there is a common convenience to defend the health, the high quality, the real distinctiveness of the wine productions. Within this logic - to conclude - is the revision of the system of sanctions, which provides for stricter measures when it comes to violations that can affect the health of citizens, but also a lightening of sanctions and the possibility of remedying errors only formal, administrative, through the inclusion for the first time of the institute of active repentance: the possibility of regularizing paying only one eighth of the penalties envisaged. Of course it is impossible to list here all the measures of the measure, which are also very technical, but I think it is more important for this House to try to grasp the overall meaning of the measure, the elements of novelty, the spirit that accompanies this text; to give awareness to all of us of the economic importance that the wine sector has assumed in our country. An export that has exceeded the five billion euros, a turnover of beyond 12 billion total, that with the induced one, reaches the 20 billion. Ours is the first wine-producing country in the world, with processing farms, industries, which involves a social fabric of over five million people. It is a sector that represents an economic sector with prospects for new jobs, new professions; it is a great piece of our future, but I think it can be if we do not divide numbers and billed by other sections of the wine sector, which are territory, culture, health and know together. For this reason, I believe that the heart of the measure lies, not rhetorically, precisely in Chapter I ('Salvaguardia del vino e delle territorie viticoli') and, in particular, in the first article, titled 'National Cultural Heritage'. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u34	I declare the general discussion open. Colleagues, we have made a commitment to the President of the Health Commission. Those who have written texts can deliver them, there is not necessarily an obligation to state them in this House, precisely for the sake of respect for the times we have guaranteed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u35	Mr President, by adhering to your initiative and your understanding, I will be extremely brief. I do not have a written text, but I have an oral report to do, which goes in the direction of supporting this measure because it was essentially built together with the wine sector. Unfortunately, for many years, a measure was expected that was capable of framing as a whole all the regulations related to wine production, from the protection of brands to the rules and guarantees of production. This measure has in itself many, if not all the elements needed to satisfy these demands. Mr President, it is also important to emphasise the political situation and also the forthcoming referendum on 4 December. Today, in fact, we are in the curious condition of amending the text because it contains a mistake that has escaped the approval of the House of Deputies. We will do so very quickly, by giving the House a correct text and citizens an effective and not lacking legal text, or even an aggravating one in terms of prescriptions. However, we do so with an awareness: nothing has anything to do with bicameralism with functionality, efficiency, effectiveness and the quality of the laws. Simple: if the laws are written well, if they are approved by one or two rooms nothing changes; if the laws are written badly, as in this case, unfortunately with a mistake, the second reading allows and is allowing to modify, preventing that even there can be prejudice for some producers regarding the enactment of a law. It is not within the terms of the measure itself, Mr President, precisely because I do not want to go too far. We called for the protection and defence of the quality of Made in Italy. We have heard too many times from the President-in-Office of the Council say that we must focus on quantity: we have exceeded 7 million hectolitres and we should push for 11 million. It is not about the quantity that you win in the international market, but it is about quality. We have traditionally had strong competition from the French ultra-alpine cousins, who, while producing a lot in terms of quantity, are able to bill a lot more, almost a third more if not double in some sectors, in terms of the value of the product in the unit quantity. We must, therefore, push our sector not only to the quantity produced, but also to the quality and above all to the promotion and awareness of the value of wine made in Italy. In some countries - I am thinking of the United States - French wine has always been considered much more than Italian wine, unfortunately; this is a deficiency in the awareness and diffusion of Made in Italy. You have to do a lot more, then. Starting from these rules and rules, the commitment that the Government must make is to support the promotion of the most qualified and certainly most appreciated national product in the world. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator D'Alì is a member of the Committee, who will also present the agenda for the G28,100 during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u36	Mr President, I rise to explain the agenda for the G28,100, of course, in conjunction with the considerations on the positivity of this draft law and the fact that it is expected in a particularly positive way by the whole sector. My agenda tends to safeguard the specific nature of the Marsala wine protection consortium. It is the only consortium to protect liqueur wine in Italy that holds a registered designation of origin, and it is also the oldest (the first measure to protect Marsala wine dates back to 1931). Without boxing in bell towering, let me say that it is also the most well-known Italian wine production in the world, because of the centuries of marketing that have also characterized its quality. Unfortunately, at the reading of the legislative decree that regulates the consortia of protection it would seem that, not being the Marsala wine corresponding to the so-called base wines but being only the result of an absolutely rigorous and specific processing disciplined by the DOC that concerns it, the Marsala wine must be excluded from the benefits that, instead, are allowed for the consortia of protection. Do not want to go into any more technical details to save colleagues, I therefore ask the Government and the Assembly to consider positively the need that the consortium for the protection of Marsala wine can also be included among the consortia of protection provided for in Article 41 of the legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u37	Senator Dalla Tor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u38	Mr President, in associating myself with colleagues' commitment to making as little use of time as possible, I would also like to add the text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. I shall then make a few comments on the substance of the measure in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u39	The Presidency authorizes you to do so and thanks you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u40	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u41	Mr President, I too agree with the desire to make my position more explicit in the explanation of vote, and to enter into the substance of the measure. I would therefore ask you to attach the text of my general speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u42	Senator Donno, thank you and I authorize you to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scoma. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u44	Mr President, in sharing the goodness of this measure, I too support the initiative of my fellow Members and I would like to add the text of my speech to the report of today's sitting. I share what Senator D'Alì said earlier about the specificity of our Marsala wine.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u45	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruvolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u47	Mr President, I agree with this measure and I would ask you to attach the text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u48	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u49	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u50	Mr President, I would also like to add the text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. I just stress the importance of the measure and its great importance for a sector that is really driving the economy of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u51	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u52	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Panizza.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u53	Mr President, I would just like to say that a few minutes ago, as rapporteurs, we deposited the agenda for the G48,200, which is in addition to the dossier which has already been distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u54	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u55	Mr President, I rise to thank all my fellow Members for having chosen this process so fast and yet so effective in relation to the objective we are all pursuing together. I really believe that today this House has the opportunity to complete the excellent parliamentary work that has been done, for which I thank all the members of the Commission, the President and the rapporteurs. We also have the opportunity to recognize to the entire Italian wine chain the work done together with intelligence and great determination. Therefore, I really believe that the sacrifice made by many of you today in giving up interventions to speed up the process of approving this measure, as well as the sacrifice - for which I thank you - made by the Health Commission and by all my colleagues who were very interested in the other measure, are motivated by the fact that, objectively, we are going to honour a large chain and put it in a position to be able, very quickly, to have a law that has been waiting for many years.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u56	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. Colleagues, I did not realize that the measure consisted of 91 articles. So if you give me a hand, we can do it too. I put to the vote Rule 1. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u57	Mr President, I naturally support Amendment 2,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u58	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u59	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u60	We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u61	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.100, tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which an amendment has been tabled and agendas which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u62	Mr President, of course I am in favour of amendment 7,100, and I also support both agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u63	Mr President, on Amendment 7,100 I am in agreement with the rapporteur and I accept the agenda for G7,100. On the agenda, G7.101 I am in favour of its adoption provided that it is reworded before both commitments are taken into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u64	I would ask Senator Campanella if he accepts the proposed reformulation of the agenda G7.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u65	Yes, Mr President, but I would ask that both agendas be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u66	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7,100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7,100 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of the G7100, presented by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7.101 (text 2), tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 7 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 10, on which an agenda has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u67	Mr President, I welcome this, but I leave it to the Government to propose a rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u68	Mr President, the Government is prepared to accept the agenda G10.100 with a rewording, replacing, in the provisional part, the words "to provide that the Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy by his own decree shall establish, by the words "to evaluate the adoption of a measure establishing".
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u69	Does Senator Candiani accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u70	Yes, Mr President, and I would ask that the agenda be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u71	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G10.100 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G10.100 (text 2) tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic means is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 16. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 17. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 18. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 19. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 20. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 21. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 22. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 23. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 23. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 24. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 24. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 25. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 25. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 26. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 26. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 27. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 27. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 28, on which an agenda has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u72	Mr President, I am in favour of the G28.100 agenda and I leave it to the Government to propose rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u73	Mr President, the opinion is in favour, provided that the agenda is reworded. We understand the request contained in the agenda G28.100 and propose the following rewording of the device: It commits the Government to evaluate the adoption of provisions for updating the Ministerial Decree 16 December 2010, considering the case of the designation of origin controlled Marsala, possibly also establishing that for the calculation of the certified productions of liqueur wine must be acquired the quantities actually certified Marsala and not the quantities of the basic wines.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u74	Senator D'Alì, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u75	Yes, I welcome it, and I ask that the agenda be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u76	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G28.100 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G28.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 28. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 29. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 29. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 30. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 30. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 31. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 31. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 32. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 32. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 33. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 33. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 34. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 34. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 35. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 35. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 36. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 36. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 37. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 37. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 38. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 38. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 39. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 39. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 40. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 40. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 41. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 41. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 42. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 42. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 43. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 43. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 44.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u79	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, like the soldiers, when the march is too tight, we must break the pace. So I make an explanation of vote in favour of Rule 44.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u80	She wanted to break not the pass, Senator Candiani. [[Laughter.]] I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 44. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 45. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 45. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 46. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 46. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 47. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 47. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 48, on which agendas have been presented which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u81	Mr President, I welcome the G48.100 agenda and, of course, G48.200, leaving it to the Government to propose rewordings if necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u82	Mr President, I am in favour of both agendas, without any change.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u83	Senator Formigoni, do you insist on voting on the agenda G48.100?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u84	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u85	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G48.100, presented by Senator Formigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I have the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on the G48,200 agenda, tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 48. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 49. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 49. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 50. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 50. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 51. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 51. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 52. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 52. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 53. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 53. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 54. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 54. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 55. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 55. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 56. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 56. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 57. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 57. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 58, on which an agenda has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u86	Mr President, I am in favour of the G58.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u87	Mr President, I also support the G58.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u88	Having been accepted by the Government, the G58.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 58. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 58. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 59. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 59. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 60. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 60. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 61. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 61. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 62. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 62. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 63. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 63. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 64, on which agendas have been presented which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u89	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u90	Mr President, I accept the agenda for G64.100 with the following rewording of the part of the provisions: after the word: 'foresee', I would like to add the words: 'compatible with the establishment of constitutional competences'. I also welcome the G64.101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u91	Senator Candiani, do you accept the reformulation proposed by the Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u92	Yes, ma'am. I also request the vote on both agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u93	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G64.100 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G64.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G64.101, presented by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 64. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 65. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 65. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 66. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 66. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 67. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 67. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 68. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 68. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 69. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 69. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 70. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 70. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 71. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 71. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 72. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 72. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 73. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 73. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 74, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u94	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u95	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 74,100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 74,100 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 74 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 75. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 75. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 76. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 76. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 77. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 77. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 78. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 78. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 79. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 79. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 80. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 80. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 81. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 81. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 82. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 82. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 83. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 83. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 84. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 84. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 85. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 85. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 86. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 86. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 87. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 87. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 88. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 88. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 89. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 89. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 90. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 90. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 91. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 91. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] Applause will have to be given to those who give written explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u98	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, I will be very brief, even without delivering the written text of my explanation of vote, but I would point out that it is not at all beautiful what has happened: such an important measure reduced to the last thing. This is an important measure for its impact on the economy of this nation, however much wine production represents in Italy, but it did so. Different things could be done and I would have expected the Deputy Minister to ask me to turn my agenda into an article, since everything had changed. This has not happened, but I hope that it has at least been a consequence of that agenda. It would be fun at this point to vote against, after I voted in favour of all the articles. However, I declare the vote in favour of the group of Reformist Conservatives. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u101	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, more than delivering the text, I will make a dry and sober explanation of vote. Mr President, for us, wine is protection of the territory, for the market, it is protection of trademarks. On this there is a fundamental difference and we tell the government. The commitment that the Government must make in implementation of this measure is the promotion of our territory, which means promotion of wine. We have competitors who know how to do it very well, because they have been doing it for longer and in a more organic way: said banally, the French export wine to China for nine hundred million euros, ten times more than the Italian turnover; it is impossible. Clearly, the measure itself is important as sector and framework legislation. However, legislation (such as Constitutions) must then be implemented. Therefore, we leave this commitment to the Government, on which we will watch very closely, so that the sector is supported, fiscally and economically, with a promotion that allows our producers that competitiveness that already in itself the quality of wine deserves, but that deserves even more because of the commitment that puts the whole supply chain in the production of Italian wine excellences. [[Applause from Senator Comaroli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u104	Mr Ruvolo (AL-A). Mr President, I will be very brief. I have no documents to deliver, but I would like to make a very brief statement to say that this measure does not come by chance. There have been two years of intense work of the Chamber and Senate Commissions and we have found the synthesis for a measure that I consider very important for the wine sector. The reasons for voting in favour are many, but I will mention only two, for the sake of the brevity of my speech: the first is the deburocratization and, therefore, the simplification of certain obligations which, over time, had become an obstacle to the sector; the second is the rationalization of controls, in order to avoid an endless series without having a clear reference framework. These are the two main reasons why my Group will vote in favour of this measure. The last note concerns the G28,100 agenda presented by Senator D'Alì on the issue of Marsala. I think it is appropriate that both the Government and Parliament have approved it, because it is a signal and in a precise direction to rationalise that sector as well. [[Applause from Senator Bertuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u107	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I welcome your invitation to be extremely brief, so I will hand over the text of my speech to the Presidency, so that it can be annexed to the report, simply by repeating the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE's vote in favour. Furthermore, we had also tabled specific draft legislation and many of the issues that they contain were absorbed in the text under discussion, so we thank the Commission for the work it has done. I think that the measure was much awaited by the sector, precisely because for years the producers (but not only) demanded the approval of this reorganization and this organic discipline, moreover important from the point of view of the country, that of the care of the territory and also for the types that have been regulated and recognized in it. The text therefore has a value that lies not simply in the valorization of the product, but precisely in a characteristic that composes the Italian landscape from North to South, from East to West. I therefore believe that a good job has been done from this point of view. However, we are also taking greater care of the health of the product for a reduced use of chemical agents in production and, in my opinion, this aspect must also be properly emphasised. Therefore, the Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE will vote for this measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u108	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u111	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Mr President, I too am happy to support your invitation and I will therefore turn over the text of my speech, but I have a duty to express in this House the conviction of the whole Group that this unique text has long been awaited by the world of wine. Probably it could be further perfected, but it is that same world that asked us to do it quickly. In this case I am referring, first of all to President Formigoni, to the great absentee within this text, that is, wine tourism, which I believe was a mistake not to deal with. I therefore take this opportunity to call on the whole House to find the quickest possible way to intervene, perhaps this time by making sure that we do the work here in the Senate in order to return the methodology that has been used in this case. I therefore turn over the text of my speech and join in the compact explanation of vote on the measure under consideration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u112	We greet professors and students of the State Institute of Higher Education Gino Luzzatto in Portogruaro, in the province of Venice, who are witnessing many of our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u115	WRITER IN TOR (AP) (NCD-UDC). Mr President, I too give the text of my speech to the Presidency. First of all, however, I would like to thank the Commission and its President, the rapporteurs, and Deputy Minister Olivero who followed us in the examination of the draft law under discussion. This is an important measure not only because it is a unique text that rearranges the whole wine sector, but also because it addresses the issues of a fundamental sector as is the Italian agri-food export, of which wine is the most significant part, reaching now 5.5 billion euros. I welcome the fact that Parliament's work on this issue has been carried out together with the productive trade unions in the whole sector, such as Coldiretti and the others, thus finding a unanimous response. I believe that for our country it is an important fact and that the one on the agenda should be written as a beautiful future law and a beautiful message to the country. Therefore, in announcing the favorable vote of the People's Area Group, I renew the hope that this bill can also be quickly approved by the Chamber of Deputies and then enter full regime in 2017. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u116	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u119	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, as we have before us in general, I would like to speak here in order to make some further points. I would like to light a lighthouse on the data diffused by Coldiretti: Italy is the world's leading wine producer, with an average of 47,5 million hectolitres and is in second place for volume and value of exported wines. The wine, therefore, rises to the most exported Italian agri-food product: a turnover of 5.4 billion euros, where Italy stands out at European level for wine grape varieties (453 in total), and for wines with a designation of origin, 73 are DOCG, 332 are DOC and 118 are IGT. We are talking about an industry that not only counts on a large variety of vines, but that represents - internationally - one of the most characteristic features of our country, because it combines the good (the one of food and wine excellence) with the beautiful (the one of our rural landscapes and the connected cultural and historical heritage). It is not by chance that Italy is a privileged destination for many admirers, scholars, entrepreneurs, but also a place of ancient oenological practices. Explained the premises of one of the flagship flowers of the national agricultural and food and wine sector, this measure aims to rationalise the numerous internal provisions concerning the production and marketing of wines. A text that industry has been waiting for a long time and that - hopefully - once and for all raises them from unnecessary bureaucratic burdens and cryptic rules, enemies of simplification, the one that should avoid getting lost between references without head or tail. Yes, because wine, vine and vineyards are not simply a component of a sector; they are also and above all part of our heritage that, as such, must be valued in its different declinations. The enhancement of the wine chain, however, implies, first of all, its protection. There are several elements that negatively affect the cultivation and subsequent production. Not only climatic and environmental factors such as rains, frosts, hailstorms, but also pathogens. In this regard, in September of this year, Puglia was affected, together with other regions, by a lethal mix: adverse climatic conditions accompanied by the dangerous spread of botryte, the so-called grey mold of the vine. On this point, on 3 October, many local administrations from Apulia, Bari and Foggiano - from Noicattaro to Bitetto to Rutigliano - sent an express request for recognition of the state of natural calamity to the Puglia Region and the government bodies. The abundant and incessant rains, in fact, together with the high temperatures typical of the period, have created the conditions for the development of fungal diseases to the detriment of many agricultural products. It was therefore necessary to remove the berries affected by fungal diseases, with an increase in expenditure on the territories. In other cases it was necessary to collect the entire production to be used for the extraction of juices or sucrose, with a foreseeable fall in the selling price of the product to euro cents. But not only has Puglia been the victim of these events; also other regions of Italy. I remember, for example, the damage to the vineyards of Chianti Classico, Montalcino and Montepulciano, of which much has been said in recent months. Or the difficult situation that affected the earthquake zones of Modena, followed by those of 2014 and, unfortunately, last August. It is worth pointing out, then, that not only does botryte afflict vine plants. There is the so-called white mal, which is manifested with white felt spots on leaves and with the berries that break or fissure. Or even the peronospora with leaf discoloration. In short, there are very many pathogens and effective measures must be taken. Having said that, despite the fact that the measure is basically in favour of us, we wanted to clarify certain aspects. It is worth pointing out that the Government has already committed itself on these points, because these are our agendas approved by the Committee on Agriculture. We are talking about paths that we are taking step by step and that mark our idea of agriculture with precise key words: sustainability, biodiversity, protection of Made in Italy and the short chain, traceability. Therefore, starting from the regional context, the Government, compatible with the balances of public finance and the European legislation on State aid, will have to take all necessary measures to support and encourage the Apulian companies that have suffered damage to the agricultural activities from the spread of phytopathologies. Let's remember that Puglia has always been a region at the top of the field and certainly cannot remain the victim of climate change. I remember the case of xylella fraud. For this reason, we must never forget that support must be directed precisely in this direction. And for this reason we fought to give special attention to the Primitivo di Manduria, a DOC wine known all over the world, whose production is allowed in the Provinces of Brindisi and Taranto. We have asked to protect, starting from an environmental defense, those territories that produce this wine, but also the companies that operate in the area. At national level, we have also called for and obtained a clear commitment to promote consumer information and awareness campaigns on wine products, in order to stimulate and enhance a more conscious and product-oriented consumption. It is also necessary to encourage the introduction of traceability systems for wine products. Every day, a lot of products come to our tables that we do not know where they come from and that often hide evil, food fraud, exploitation stories. For this reason, we have always asked for a macro-system of traceability of food so that every consumer can know, in a clear and transparent way, the various stages of production and processing of what we eat, drink, that we find in the shelves of the supermarket. On this point, in particular, there is a proposal at my first signature which contains rules for the traceability of agricultural products. Furthermore, in the appropriate locations, the Commission will have to promote - in all its forms - the safeguarding of the true Made in Italy also in the field of wines, through a modification - if necessary - of the Community Customs Code on the definition of the origin of the product and the legislation on labelling. This morning we saw three amendments tabled to this effect. Fortunately - we repeat once again - that the Senate of the Republic exists! The Senate, which accepted the suggestion from the Justice Commission and was therefore able to settle the legislation and bring a good result. So I say "no" to constitutional reform also for this reason. It is time that the time spent in cumbersome bureaucratic procedures, broken obligations and disorganic passages left the pace to dematerialization, to the reduction of time and costs, in a context in which there is no longer an indefinite quantity of disciplines, but there is only one and that of the unique text on wine. Paraphrasing a phrase by Galileo Galilei, wine is a compound of mood and light; although more than four hundred years have passed since the death of the multifaceted master, this statement remains entirely current. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u122	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I have to say that we have seen a virtually unanimous will in expressing a yes to this bill by a unanimous vote; a yes to the excellence of one of our Italian products, such as wine and the wine sector. This is an important sector, growing, which represents in agro-food the most sold Italian product in the world, for which we find as interlocutor and as consumer the new continent, the United States. Having said that, precisely because of this and the awareness of the role we have in the world market, it is necessary to define more and more the rules for having a quality product (even if the quality we already represent it) and to ensure that others produce with the same disciplines and protocols that the Italian wine growers are obliged to respect. We're here, the wine growers are there. There are no others like us. There is a lot of work to be done in this respect. We have established the rules, but we know that they are of no use if they are not respected. Therefore, let us welcome this unity of intent. The sector proceeds and grows not without difficulties, because to say that everything is okay would be wrong. We have - I repeat deliberately - a great responsibility, that is to be present in the world with a product of excellence and aspire to be more and more, with a brand that characterizes us, that is, the wine made in Italy. Attention, the dangers we know them: the famous italian soiling exists with reference not only to the wine, that all in all is still protected enough, but also to many other products that need more and more attention to protect our consumer and also the producer (it is not a coincidence that refers first to the consumer, because we need to be guaranteed in quality). Mr President, our vote will only be in favour. During the process of examining the measure, all the parliamentary groups expressed the extreme desire to get rid of it as soon as possible. In conclusion, we must be careful: I pride myself on Italian exports, certainly yes, but let us ensure that the Italian product is not only recognizable on the label, but is actually produced in Italy in compliance with the rules that we are very happy to follow, because we are not afraid to confront anyone and because we are and want to be a leader in the world, but - at the same time - we want to be protected and guaranteed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u125	BERTUZZI (PD). Mr President, I do not think it will surprise the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this measure. Although I would ask you to attach the text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting, I would like to say one thing. The process with which we will come to approve the final text in the relevant committee of the Chamber of Deputies, must teach us something. Let us not be fooled by the speed at which the work took place this morning, because this was possible because of the great work done: over the past two years the institutions and the world of production wanted to arrive at a text that was useful. I believe that the measure is a model which, especially on the issues of simplification and deburocraticisation, should also be followed in other areas. The unanimity we have arrived at is precisely the result of the political will to compose a useful text and the seriousness of the sector to want a measure that was not only simple, but also effective in defending the important work that the sector has done with effort, seriousness and dedication in recent years and that has led it to be leader in the world. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Azzollini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u126	Senator Bertuzzi, the Presidency authorizes you to attach the text of your speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. WOMAN (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No. 2535, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] Consequently, the draft law no. 1287, 1614 and 1615. The Senate unanimously passed this bill. I see you all agree when it comes to wine. There are few systems in this House. [[Laughter. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u129	PANIZE, rapporteur. Mr President, I would just like to say a few words to thank my fellow Members, also on behalf of my colleague Mr Pignedoli, for their sense of responsibility, but also for the support they have given to this measure in a constructive sense and also - I must admit - through a contribution of ideas and proposals that will also be useful for the Government. [[Applause from Senators Bertuzzi and Pignedoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u132	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am only making a very brief speech to defend the goodness of Senator Candiani. I am told by the Offices that when I intervened at the beginning of the session on the order of business, in transmitting my image on the satellite channel of the Senate, it was shown in overimpression: "Senator Stefano Candiani." [[Laughter]] I wanted to point this out to the director, also to prevent such inconveniences from happening again in the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u133	Determining which one should feel offended is a good war!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u134	[[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u135	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2224, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 1134 and 1648. We shall resume the examination of the amendments and the agenda submitted to Rule 1, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u136	Mr President, on Amendment No 1,200, I would like to call for a withdrawal, otherwise I would be against it. On Amendments Nos 1,201, 1,202 and 1,203, I object. On the agenda G1,100 I am in favour of it being accepted as a recommendation, subject to rewording of the final arrangement, which would read as follows: "For the above and considered, the Government undertakes to assess the possibility that, in the course of an organic discipline on the subject, measures are taken to ensure the information to the patient in a clear and understandable way, in order to respect his autonomy and dignity."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u137	Excuse me, Senator Bianco, with regard to an agenda or are you asking for it to be reworded for its adoption, or are you accepting it as a recommendation without rewording. Given the punctuality with which he proposed the rewording, it would be appropriate to accept it as a reworded agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u138	I'm going back to the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u139	The Government is in favour of accepting the agenda G1,100, subject to rewording of the proposal as proposed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u140	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senator Romani Maurizio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,201, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,202 tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 1,203 is impervious. Senator Panizza, do you agree to reformulate the agenda G1,100 as indicated by the rapporteur? PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u141	Mr President, during yesterday's sitting, during the explanation of the amendments to Article 1, I had the opportunity to anticipate the meaning of the amendments to Article 2, with particular reference to amendment 2.203. For a correct circularity of the data it is necessary to specify who, when and how it collects the information and data and transmits them to the Regional Center for the management of the health risk and the safety of the patient. I therefore believe that it is appropriate that paragraph 4 of Article 2 should be introduced from public and private health and socio-health facilities, as proposed by amendment 2.203, otherwise a vulnus is created which can lead to a reduction in the levels of effectiveness in achieving the objective we are proposing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u142	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 2.202, which refers to paragraph 3 which specifies that the Ombudsman acquires, even digitally, the documents relating to the alert received and, if he has verified the validity of the alert, intervenes to protect the injured law with powers and procedures laid down by regional legislation. In my opinion, it is important to make a specification by adding the words: "While it is not possible to resolve any disputes in a binding manner." It seems to me to be an important fact, in order to be consistent with the respect of everyone's rights.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u143	Mr President, I withdraw amendment 2.207.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u144	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u145	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 2.203, which, as I have rightly pointed out, justifies the opinion that is contrary to Amendment 1.202. In this regard, I call on the authors of Amendment No 2.208 to withdraw it and to incorporate it into Amendment No 2.203, which deals with the same subject. I also welcome amendment 2.205, subject to rewording by 28 February of the following year. I am against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u146	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's opinion and I agree with the proposed rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u147	Does Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur to Amendment 2.205? D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,200. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,200, tabled by Senators Rizzotti and Mandelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator Palermo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,201, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.202 tabled by Senators Mandelli and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.203 tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.204, tabled by Senator Di Biagio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.205 (text 2), tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 2.26 and 2.206 are impervious. Amendment 2.207 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.208, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u148	Mr President, Amendment 3,200 could in fact be regarded as a drafting exercise. It is probably not taken into account that my amendment 3.3 was adopted in the course of the work in the Health Commission which, in paragraph 2 of Article 3, adds the words: "and the monitoring of good practices for the safety of care" where the measures to be taken are identified with reference to the data collected within the training path between health facilities, regional centre and observatory. Essentially, the Observatory acquires a function that concerns not only the guidelines identified on the basis of the adoption of risk management prevention measures, but also the guidelines aimed at monitoring good practices for the safety of care. That is why I believe that the title should be changed in the National Observatory for Good Practices and Safety in Health, as a result of the amendment that has been adopted and that obviously has not led the work in the Commission to reconsider the need for such an intervention that I consider to be - I repeat - drafting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u149	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u150	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u151	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,200. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,200, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,301, tabled by Senator Di Biagio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,202 tabled by Senator Di Biagio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.16 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u152	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments 4,207 and 4,208, which probably do not come within such an overall framework as the one covered by this measure, but they are two very similar amending proposals and are the result of twenty-nine years of experience in this area. Yesterday we commemorated a great scientist in this House, and these amendments concern the mortuary police regulation. As most of you probably don't know, today diagnostic feedback can be requested by a treating doctor or by someone who used to be called a health coordinator and today is called a health director. I propose that, if a doctor arranges for the autopsy, the family members should be allowed to participate in the diagnostic test. Let us put ourselves as a person who dies in a hospital and believes that something is unclear, and the doctor or health director arranges the autopsy. In this case the family member is not allowed to send his/her doctor of trust to feedback. Why isn't he allowed? Because the law does not provide it, for a rather complex picture, for a rather publicistic vision of the body and not for a private vision. The only way to get a family member to have a doctor present at the autopsy is to file a complaint. In my experience of a small hospital, in just a few years, agreeing that family members could send a doctor of their trust, I avoided a dozen complaints. Today I want to remind you that a prosecutor, when faced with challenging folders, does nothing but take the names of all the staff and send them a warranty notice. In one of the last cases I witnessed before coming to the Senate, a pm had sent twenty-three warranty notices because it had also considered the names of the health care staff who had transported the patient from bed to the operating room. You understand that in that case there have been twenty-three notices of guarantee, with everything that follows in terms of spending for all lawyers: then it has resolved, as often happens, at the autopsy level, in a very precise and very clear way. These are therefore two very precise amendments. I would also like to remind you that Italy is the only country in the world where a family member cannot arrange the autopsy, even paying for it. A family member can go to a professional, pay even 800-1,000 euros for a visit, but he cannot ask for an autopsy, which costs 380 euros, because the autopsy is also evaluated in the judicial field for an expert. I therefore call for these two amendments to be taken into account, but I have also proposed the G4100 agenda, hoping that the issue will eventually be considered, including through a ministerial circular. I would like to point out that we have had a number of discussions on this subject with a large number of national legal doctors and all of them have considered these amendments to be of common sense. Moreover, these are amendments that cost nothing, because the autopsy is already prepared by the doctor or health director: only a family member is allowed to send a doctor to attend the autopsy and protect his interests. So much has been said about this measure about the difficult balance between health professionals and the patient; well, this is a very balanced standard.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u153	Senator Gaetti, I would also like to thank you for the information you provided, because even as a hospital doctor, I didn't know how much an autopsy cost. It was completely unknown to me, and this is the first time I've heard of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u156	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to add the signature to Mr Gaetti's amendments 4,207 and 4,208. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u159	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I, too, and all the other Members of the 5 Star Movement Group, would like to subscribe to Senator Gaetti's amendments 4,207 and 4,208. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that, Senator Cioffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u160	Mr President, first of all, I would like to add my signature to Amendments 4,207 and 4,208 tabled by my colleague, Mr Gaetti, which gave an exhaustive account of the aims I believe to be acceptable. I believe that these amendments can be adopted by the House and I hope that there will also be further discussion by the Government and the rapporteur. Secondly, I would like to explain Amendment 4,209. The title of Article 4 adds to the transparency obligations which must be homogeneous and equal, in the sense that they must not create imbalances. I think it is necessary to add, - it is my request - after paragraph 3, with reference to the access to the information relating to the health documentation in the patient's possession of the compensation practice, paragraph 3-a; and this in relation to the necessity that the obligation of transparency allows both the doctor and the health facility to prove the so-called correct fulfillment through the health documentation related to the performances carried out also outside the structure used by the patient. For this reason it is essential, by way of derogation from the existing privacy provisions, that in the context of a dispute not be precluded, the health structure, the doctor but also the insurance, the possibility of being able to access the information relating to the health treatment that the injured person has had relative to the pathology for which the claim for compensation has been determined. That is why I call for additional attention from the Government and the rapporteur. I believe that this amendment is perfectly in line with the principles of transparency which cannot be unbalanced, but must remain in balance.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, we salute the mayor and the delegation of the Town Council of San Canzian d'Isonzo, in the province of Gorizia, who are witnessing our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u164	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, having appreciated the content of Senator Gaetti's amendments 4,207 and 4,208 and the response in terms of both transparency and the real reduction of litigation, with Senator Simeoni we ask you to add our signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u165	The Presidency takes note of this. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u166	Mr President, I call on the authors to withdraw amendment 4,200 and turn it into an agenda. On the remaining amendments, and in particular on those presented by Senator Gaetti, I can say that the subject is certainly sensitive, and for this reason the amendments, as proposed, at least in my opinion are not sufficient to intervene on the complexity of the order. On the other hand, I would like to express a favourable opinion on the G4100 agenda, with the following rewording in the final part: "It commits the Government to assess the way - and this is the problem - to introduce the possibility for family members (or those entitled) to have... In essence, by grasping the meaning and meaning of the amendments, the subject dealt with certainly requires a bit more complicated intervention. The government's commitment to this is on the agenda. With regard to Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri's amendment 4.209, the opinion is opposed because it is perjury on the part of the injured person not to document the facts as they are.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u167	In essence, therefore, the opinion is opposed to all the amendments tabled. There is a call to turn amendment 4,200 into an agenda and a favourable opinion on the G4100 agenda, as reworded. , rapporteur. On the other hand, I would like to express a favourable opinion on the agenda which is binding on the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u168	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u171	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make it clear that Amendments 4,207 and 4,208 have two different scales of power. In Amendment 4,207 it is lower, in the sense that the family member cannot speak with the health management, whereas in Amendment 4,208 the family member can do so. And, therefore, I would prefer that they be voted on. On the other hand, I accept the rewording of agenda 4,100, but I would also like it to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u174	WHITE, rapporteur. I would ask you to put aside these two amendments and the agenda because the will is common, but it is the instrument that differs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zeller, do you accept the change of amendment 4,200 to the agenda? Do you intend to vote on it? ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I accept his transformation and I do not intend to vote for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u175	Having been accepted by the Government, the G4200 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.201. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.201, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Romani Maurizio and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4.202. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.203, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna, identical to amendment 4.204, tabled by Senators Stefani and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.205, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4206, tabled by Senator Simeoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4,207 and 4,208 are laid down. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.209, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would also add the agenda for G4100, because it seems to me that this matter is relevant. We therefore do not proceed to the vote on Rule 4. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 5, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u176	Mr President, I would like to explain together the amendments I have tabled to Article 5, because - with different nuances - they relate in particular to the importance of the guidelines in the field of scientific societies. The reason is very simple: I hope that it is not only scientific and technical-scientific societies that make the guidelines, even if they are the only ones with great possibilities in terms of economic research, but also the multidisciplinary working groups and in Italy there are different ones. In Italy there is no clarity and clarity on the part of scientific societies, and I say this, being a doctor, with a certain apprehension and difficulty. I would like to point out that a few months ago, precisely in June 2016, a guideline - as industry experts know - was published on the Italian Cardiology Day, signed by representatives of seventeen Italian scientific societies and, therefore, endowed with the greatest skills. It is only regrettable that those seventeen people wrote, at the bottom of page 3 of the article, that they had no conflict of interest. For laziness, I have not been able to evaluate and study the positions of the seventeen eminent colleagues who signed the document, but of some I have read the international works (works very often of the highest level), in which many of them declare obvious conflicts of interest and, also on the sites of the big pharma, the money they have perceived. It is very interesting to note that, abroad, these eminent colleagues declare conflicts of interest, while in Italy they do not. Here, which is not a medical assembly, I would not like to be part of the guideline, but what I mentioned earlier was, a few weeks later, disavowed by an international review. It is therefore shown that very often there is no freedom in the guidelines to which we doctors should then adhere. I therefore ask that, in the end, when the guidelines are published, at least 90 days should be left to the citizens, the competent persons, the working groups to maintain such a vision. I would like to remind you that this is a very important problem abroad, and this is so true that the British have set up the NICE Institute, which receives public funding of £33 million a year and involves two hundred first-aid researchers and many other working groups. This is because the specificity of the guidelines is a very important element, so abroad the problem has been overcome by involving a public structure. In our case, on the other hand, the structure is public, as it is planned to ratify the Higher Institute of Health, but the latter is not in condition, nor does it have the resources to carry out the checks in a specific way. Moreover, as the norm says, the Higher Institute of Health enters more into the methodological discourse than into that of the essence of the guideline. Therefore, I have tabled some improvement amendments and, in the end, in the alternative - as the lawyers say - I have also tabled an agenda which seeks, at least during the implementation phase, to give space to the working groups. I would also stress that there are scientific works, such as that of Fabbri, published in the "British Medical Journal of 2016" in which it is shown that the greater the scientific societies are, the more they have great power, the more they have great sponsorships. Indeed, sponsorships do not allow that independence which, on the contrary, is necessary in such an important area. And, in our case, the sustainability of the National Health Service also depends on it. And we could see this in the motions proposed a few days ago, with which we tend to always insert new drugs particularly expensive, creating situations really at the limit. On such an important problem, therefore, I recognise the balance of the rapporteur, who has had to settle a situation without funds, while abroad, with resources, has become apparent in a different way. The rapporteur has put forward a number of elements which, all in all, do not enjoy my complete confidence, but I recognise his work and, without funds, more than this could not be done. However, I would once again ask you to leave a door open so that all the competent people can express their views. The way the norm was written, this door was really closed. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u177	Mr President, I would like to set out amendments 5,204, 5,205 and 5,210 which have a clear aim. The first two amendments seek to ensure that good clinical and welfare practices, recommendations, make use of the contribution of scientific societies, but with a qualified number of members. On the other hand, Amendment 5.10 also introduces an important issue, namely that of federations and orders, as part of the drafting of guidelines. I would like to reflect on this and take a step back. We have all voted on the draft law of Minister Lorenzin, who reaffirms to the orders a role of bodies governed by public law. I really believe it is important that, in drawing up the guidelines, the participation of the National Federation of Medical Orders, the National Federation of Nurses Colleges, Healthcare Assistants, Child Care Watches and other national federations Colleges of Health Professions should be ensured. If a few weeks ago we recognized a very important role of subsidiarity of orders with respect to the State (role reaffirmed by the law in relation to the legislation of 1946), I do not see how, at the time when we have to prepare guidelines, we can disregard what we wanted to reiterate as an important part of the Italian health mechanism. I therefore call for Amendment 5.10 to receive a favourable opinion from the rapporteurs, or at least they undertake to propose an agenda in order to try to assess the way in which federations and orders are involved. Otherwise, it is useless that we make them economic bodies governed by public law and then leave them in a drawer when they are needed. I consider this to be a real contradiction. And therefore, in calling for amendment 5.10 to be adopted, I would ask in the alternative that it be considered at least, otherwise it was useless to have given federations and orders a role ten days ago in this House, while we are now excluding them from a process in which I believe they have an important task to do. It seems to me to be a contradiction in terms and, therefore, I do not understand how my amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u178	Mr President, I too am speaking on the guidelines. First of all, we say that in Italy there is the Italian Federation of Medical Society (FISM), within which all scientific societies that are truly such flow. And I stress that, because sometimes it seems to me that there is some confusion about the concept of scientific society. Concretely, the scientific society means the one where the university works flow and then we see published in the major international magazines and in PubMed. The criterion used by practice is always that the declaration of conflict of interest is relative to the person with respect not to the whole of his life, but to a certain scientific article. It is therefore certainly compatible with the fact that one person has a conflict of interest in one subject and not another. The lack of conflict of interest in certain magazines, validated by various persons who intervene in the article itself, is the premise and must be stated. There is therefore a close link between scientific society and universities. And this is important because if, tomorrow - for example - I want to make a research group, I do not make a scientific society; I go ahead for my own interest, maybe I collect data - free to do so - but I do not have the reliability and the certification that universities, specialization schools and medical schools have. We make the necessary distinction, because otherwise we get to the point that the gardener who does a home study on his flowers that react differently to decalized water or else has more reliability maybe than a university that follows a method. And who can validate the method? Surely the Higher Institute of Health, which at the moment, however, is not structured, would have to be expanded to ensure that it is able to act as a guarantor. I remember that years ago ISPESL was abolished, a body parallel to NIOSH in the United States: and a third party entity that was assembled in INAIL. In any case, the Higher Institute of Health could be strengthened and also assume this role in the future. At present, FISM is the interlocutor of the Ministry of Health, which collects all scientific societies. I have specified this in some amendments and I have also tabled an agenda to ensure that the various specializations - for example, gastroenterology, cardiology and chest surgery - agree - there could be more scientific societies - and make a single society with more titles and jobs and is the most representative, that is to say it represents the university most, thus making itself the spokesperson of all other scientific societies. I refer to the example of cardiology that has three fundamentals, but university professors adhere only to one; in the medicine of work there are those who improvise, but the most representative society that collects all university students is SiMLii. It is therefore important to do this work and, in the end, everything else will be more spontaneous. Otherwise, we'll find what does the job with one or 10 case reports, and cases like autism, conspiracy, cancer treated with baking soda, and so on. This is not good, so I find it very dangerous to extend the initiative to individuals and individual committees. Let us give Caesar what is Caesar's: you do not graduate, you do not specialize, you do not do twenty, thirty, forty years of studies in universities - validated with method and guidelines also in the methodology of writing a job and carrying it forward - at random. The guidelines are very important. I remember then that, when we evaluate the professionalism of a doctor, the known presence of any malpractice or negligence, and therefore the medical error, we have to assume that that person, beyond the fact of following the guidelines and addresses - they are a synthesis, but they should attest above all the gold standards, the method most evaluated at that time - that he has the degree (it is hoped meritocrat), an equally meritorious specialization and has carried out a personal path of study, updating and experiences, which also have a weight. So let's say that the guidelines serve, in the light of validated methods, gold standards and the latest research, to modularize. If the PSA was once used, it is now an old index, so the new guidelines are also updating in this respect. Having made this clear, it is equally clear that in the end there is no conflict of interest. The important thing is that we distinguish between the scientific society (which gives, precisely, a well-defined scientific address) and the gossip that we read on the weekly by the hairdresser. [[Applause from Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u179	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u180	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u181	Mr President, I call for a withdrawal or I am against Amendments 5,200, 5,201, 5,202, 5,206, 5,20, 5,207, 5,211. I am against the remaining amendments. I give a favourable opinion on the G5100 agenda, provided that the following rewording is accepted: .. and delete the words '...'; to provide for the possibility of '...'. I call for the agenda to be withdrawn and for amendments 5.0,200 to be withdrawn and I am against Amendment 5.0,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u182	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u183	Senator Gaetti, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G5.100? GAETTI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,200. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u186	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since it has not been well specified in the measure which are the scientific societies, bodies, public or private institutions, I would like to understand whether the federations mentioned in the amendment tabled by Mr Mandelli, on 5.10, are already included in the companies to be consulted for the adoption of guidelines or excluded from them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the rapporteur and the government representative to comment on Senator Floris' request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u187	Mr President, Article 5, which sets out the main theme of the guidelines, requires the Ministry to redefine the national system of guidelines in its composition and functions, but does not specify how this body will interact with all relevant scientific and professional authorities. I have been President of the Federation of Orders, which are not scientific but professional authorities. This does not mean that for the obvious implications - and it is here the complexity of the national system guidelines - the Ministry can and should involve in an evaluation of the guidelines - as, moreover, has already happened on the decree adequacy, just to be clear - also these subjects. The problem is that we cannot regulate with primary rule the participation of these types of organisms. It is clear that in the decrees will be collected, accepted and harmonized all those participations, including those of the multidisciplinary groups mentioned earlier. That's the ratio. It is a primary standard, which gives directions for carrying out tasks and functions that will be contained in a decree of the Ministry of Health. Senator Gaetti's agenda, accepted by the Government, asks exactly this: to take into account multidisciplinary groups. This will be taken into account. I would point out that Law No 42 of 1999 already provided, in the then national system, for the participation of federations of orders. [[Senator Fucksia's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u188	Mr President, I am speaking only to confirm the total adherence to the representation of the issues which the rapporteur has made. As you will have noticed, the provision of the article that we are considering indicates a procedure - also this is a novelty - of accreditation of scientific structures and societies or other subjects who can fill out the guidelines. It would be difficult to detail in a primary standard all mechanisms, even in terms of representativeness. In the first point of the second paragraph of Article 5, it is precisely the assessment to be made by the Ministry of Health. Therefore, I confirm that we will maintain this line of procedure of consultation and evaluation with the representatives of the orders and we will be very careful also with reference to the combination of representativeness of the subjects who will have to produce the guidelines, which are an important tool. In conclusion, I confirm that it would be very complicated to detail all the points that are indicated here in a primary standard.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u189	Senator Mandelli, I'm asking you what your orientation is.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u190	Mr President, I understand the explanations of the Undersecretary and, therefore, I will reject my request to turn Amendment 5.10 into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u191	Undersecretary De Filippo, what is your opinion?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u192	I agree with Senator Mandelli's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u193	Amendment 5.10 is therefore withdrawn and transformed into an agenda, to which Senator Floris is asking for the signature to be added.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u196	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I would like to say that very often Parliament's acts and the Reports of Parliament's sittings contribute to a greater understanding of the legislator's understanding when the text of the rule is unclear. With regard to Rule 5 and some of the amendments and agendas tabled, I have listened to the speeches with which some thoughts and guidelines have been put forward. Therefore, Mr President, for the benefit of the report on the work of this House, I would like to highlight the provisions of Rule 5 (1). The professional bodies are today bodies governed by non-economic public law and their legal status is reiterated by Article 3 of the so-called bill Lorenzin, under examination of the Chamber of Deputies. Connect Floris, the professional orders are not consulted, nor graciously involved for who knows what courtesy. It is expressly written that the guidelines are drawn up by public and private bodies and institutions. Therefore, since orders have a legal nature that qualifies them as bodies governed by public law, they are in fact absolutely actors and protagonists of the drafting activity, in the manner, in the terms and with the rules that will be established by the decree of the Ministry to which Article 5 refers. I have allowed myself to make this precision, because the clarification in the Report can resolve some doubts and eliminate uncertainties in the field of interpretation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u197	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,200, tabled by Senator Romani Maurizio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,201, which is identical to Amendment 5,202.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u198	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u200	RUTA (PD). Mr President, I would like to put a question to the Undersecretary and, above all, to the rapporteur. I am not a doctor and, therefore, kindly ask for an explanation to know an aspect. The guidelines provide guidance on how the interventions should be carried out and carried out, but - of course - they do not go into the substance. Since we make non-perpetuality dependent, even by serious error, on having followed the guidelines, I would ask the rapporteur for a clarification because, precisely, the guidelines do not enter into the substance of the implementing technique of the operation. And I say this because I am well aware that the bill provides for a contemperation of interests in the field - they are interests that affect the true sensitivity of all of us - and I understand well that compensation lies in the possibility of facilitating compensation. In this draft law - I am addressing the rapporteur - the impunity for serious fault, and not for slight fault, is granted for having observed the guidelines and does not enter into the issue of executive technique. I would like to ask this question because a doctor, even if he has performed an operation in accordance with the guidelines, has used an executive technique that has not been up to the level and that goes to cover the case of serious error. Therefore, I ask the rapporteur and the Undersecretary, who are subtle and happy to be denied, whether I am wrong in making these considerations - and therefore I am glad to be correct and learned - or whether it is a subject that resists as a vulnus in the draft law to our examination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'm asking Senator White if he's going to intervene to give Senator Ruta an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u201	Mr President, I was very kindly last night, when I was in response, and I have been referred to several times and rightly by the Presidency, but the subject of the technical-scientific and legal guidelines has been dealt with a long time ago. Compared to the amendments that refer to the specific case - on which there is a call for withdrawal, because it is already provided for in the norm - it is now a well-established fact, from the technical and scientific point of view (but I must say promptly also under the legal one), that the guidelines are recommendations and that, in any case, they must be applied and can only constitute claims if they are consistent and appropriate to the specific case. This has already been said by the judiciary: there are judgments condemning professionals for uncritical respect - as the judiciary says - of guidelines. It's a very complex matter. But the important thing - I ask you to appreciate this - is that, even in the context of quality assessments, which become the fundamental moments in which the test is based, we can have very clear, precise and unambiguous references. Luckily, these are rare cases, but there are evaluations that refer - I believe - to the Salerno Medical School. We also appreciate the measure from this point of view. The area of non-perpetuality, therefore, refers to a correct application of good practices or recommendations in a context that lends itself to this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u202	If there is no further intervention, if an invitation to withdraw has been made, if there is no explicit consent from the proposer, I shall proceed with the vote. Does the government representative want to add anything?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u203	It is very timely what the rapporteur has already said. In fact, in the norm, the two moments of the procedure, both the guidelines and the expertise, even in view of the issues indicated by Senator Ruta, are perimeter in a much more punctual way than the case history that we have behind us. Therefore, the rules on expertise, according to the forecasts contained in the next part of the standard, with regard - for example - to consultants, is one of the points that is further strengthened and refined. We expect that case studies in the future will be much easier to deal with.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u204	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,201 tabled by Senator Romani Maurizio and other senators, identical to Amendment 5,202, tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u205	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u207	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I rise to ask, on behalf of the whole Group, to subscribe to all the first-signed amendments by Senator Gaetti. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u208	The Presidency takes note of this. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5203 tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.204, tabled by Senators Rizzotti and Mandelli, until the words "less than" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5205 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5206 tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Senator Petraglia, do you insist on voting? PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.20 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.24 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,207, tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.208, tabled by Senators Rizzotti and Mandelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,209 tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G5,210, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.11 tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.12, tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.13 tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.14, tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G5100 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u209	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u211	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I would ask you to sign the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u212	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5101, tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.200, tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.201, tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Colleagues, given the time and having voted on about one third of the amendments in the file, it will not be possible to reach the conclusion of the measure by today's sitting. In order to allow the 5th and 1st standing Commissions to work on the decree-laws to be examined, I propose that the continuation of the discussion of the measure be postponed to take up again next week. If there are no comments, so it remains established. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-726.ana.u213	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.10 a.m.
