ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u4	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u8	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I have not been able to press the button to show my presence during the quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u9	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u10	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u11	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2345, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u14	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, we now know that European law and European delegation law are the two instruments with which Law No 234 of 24 December 2012 gave the opportunity, burden and honour to Members of Parliament to contribute to the transposition of European directives and to comment on the adoption of regulations. However, in recent years, the instrument has been used in a way... ( [[Brusio).]] Excuse me, I'd like to ask if you can be quiet, because I can't speak: I have a little low voice and I'm struggling.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u15	We try to encourage the intervention of Senator Fattori, lowering the tone of voice or going out of the Chamber to carry out any dialogues.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u16	FACTORS (M5S). Thank you, President. This is an important instrument, because European legislation now constitutes 70% of the new laws and we know very well how these often sting with the interests of our country. It is an important tool for giving Members - especially the opposition - the opportunity, because European law and the law of European delegation concern all citizens - to intervene on these issues. In recent years, this instrument has been used badly. In fact, the bill of European delegation to the Chamber and the European bill of law to the Senate are scheduled; after the first passage, the two measures are armored in the corresponding Chamber (in this case too the bill of delegation arrived armored). Therefore, all the discussions in the Commission, all the amendments and any attempt to amend them were just a joke, because we already knew from the outset that nothing would be accepted and that no amendment would be accepted simply because we do not want to go back to the other House. I therefore stigmatize this completely meaningless behaviour; it wastes the time of the Commissions and the Parliamentary Assembly for something which - we already know - will not be changed. I therefore propose that we now adopt the single-chamber system, which you so much like and which has already been adopted, even by way of derogation from the principles of our current Constitution, for the European bill and for the law of a European delegation. We had proposed amendments to the House because we already knew that nothing could be accepted here; in particular, we had asked to remove the monopoly on SIAE with regard to the copyright directive. We know, unfortunately, that this monopoly exists in Italy. We had tabled appropriate amendments to the House in order to grant freedom of choice over what has been the monopoly of the last seventy years; they have not been accepted and of course the draft delegation law will be approved as such. There are regulations for which we do not want to delegate to the government: for example, the directive on the exchange of tissues of organ cells, on which we really want to have a serious debate in Parliament, because they are not issues that we can delegate to the European Union; they are very deep ethical and scientific issues, for which we ask instead for a debate to take place: at this time I am addressing the rapporteur especially, so that he pays particular attention to this directive. We talked about the labelling directive. In the text of the European law we had managed to have the government withdraw the famous article 3, which prevented it from indicating on the label the origin of the raw material. We were happy, we made press releases, we were all happy and instead you reinstated the norm with the bill of European delegation, so you have again sold our excellence to the multinationals. I turn to those who said yesterday that we Italians have very important processing companies. Well, the processing companies would be even more protected if they were to protect the entire supply chain, from production to processing to the consumer, in order to give the latter the opportunity to choose which type of quality he wants in the processed product. I do not see anything strange in indicating on the label the origin of the raw material: the consumer will be able to choose whether to consume a Parma ham with the thighs coming from Poland or a local. It is simply a question of protecting the supply chain and giving the consumer freedom of choice, which you, by applying these directives, deny him. Here is another problem, which is political. Four infringement procedures are open to us: two relate to state aid - and perhaps one will open up, as far as ILVA is concerned - and two relate to waste. I would like to point out once again that going into infringement on certain subjects is a political choice and deciding to adapt with regard to food excellence and instead of going into infringement with regard to the virtuous management of waste is an infamous one: it is also an infamy for your citizens. We prefer to go into infringement in order to protect agri-food and instead want to resolve the infringements with regard to waste management, especially in Campania. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They are political choices, it is not Europe that asks us to do so. Europe tells us so many things and we only listen to what suits you, including a rule that once again protects banks. After the bail in, we find ourselves again discussing a directive that, having to give the delegation, we do not know how it will be interpreted by the government. Also for these particular topics, I announce the absolutely contrary vote of the 5 Star Movement. We never want to delegate to the government; we want to give sovereignty to Parliament, especially as regards European legislation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u19	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject on the agenda is, as we know, the adoption of the draft law of the European delegation 2015. The measure contains more than one delegation to the Government for the transposition of European directives and the implementation of other acts of the European Union. It is therefore a measure which, on an annual basis, adapts our legal system to the rules produced by the European legislator. In this way, Italy fulfils (so to speak) the obligations arising from our membership of the European Union. In fact, however, the Italian Parliament is trying to transpose and implement European acts in a completely passive way, and sometimes - not to say too often - we are witnessing the mere and simple introduction of European rules into our own system, without anything being done except to accept the European Union's proposals in step. This has a negative impact on the crucial sectors of our economy and society. We are critical - very critical - of this legislative practice, completely unaware of the peculiarities and specificities of our country system. There are also serious critical profiles within the draft law that we are debating today in this House. I am referring first of all to Article 5, which we talked a lot about yesterday. I was particularly impressed by the way in which, without understanding, we agreed to abdicate to Europe with regard to our Made in Italy: we sold out our quality, our label and our peculiarities. We are experiencing a negative historical moment and I hope that the farmers will understand at the time that this Government is not only doing nothing for agriculture, but - indeed - it is creating a great damage to it. This measure lays down labelling rules and provides that the transposition of Community rules may also lead to the possible repeal of national provisions; I repeat: repeal of national provisions. I congratulate the Minister, who is not present in the Chamber and who I do not know when we will see (I do not even see the Deputy Minister, but he does nothing). We are absolutely opposed to this ratio, as we should not in any way delete the internal regulatory references that represent the only tools to defend and support the exceptionality of Made in Italy. Rather, we should ensure that the European institutions and the Member States comply with the Italian legislation on this matter. With regard to the obligation to indicate the location and address of the production or packaging plant, denying the possibility to indicate the place of production instead, we believe that it is harmful and deleterious for our products. I quote the intervention of Senator Bertuzzi (to follow also others) and the limits of certain statements that are contradictory to the position that was then taken. For a moment I was deluded to believe that, on behalf of the Democratic Party, Senator Bertuzzi had grasped the importance of indicating on the label the place of production, for example when she quoted (but in contradictory form) wine. We are the country with the highest indices of labels, protection, warranty and more. If today wine boasts characteristics and we can sell it as a high quality product - the best in the world - it is thanks to these labels that have guaranteed its origin, production, place and characteristics. You talk about biodiversity, but then you give up to indicate the place of production of a country, like Italy, that is characterized by having different production territories and with specific peculiarities that guarantee and determine the excellence of our products, that today you, in one shot, cancel and cancel. One concrete example is that there is no mention of oil coming from Morocco rather than from Tunisia or other countries. Therefore, the Italian quality product, labeled as made in Italy, is now suffering enormous damage. Other points, which I have already mentioned and which I have found in European law, also concern the fact that the Bank of Italy and CONSOB are identified as supervisory bodies. In this sense, in my opinion another great mistake is being made, because we have seen that the control activities they are responsible for have not been carried out with adequate effectiveness and, in any case, their result has been quite questionable. We have seen how, in the present cases, the Bank of Italy is granted this option and this possibility when all Italian banks were practically saved to the detriment of Italian savers. I, frankly, want to depart from the speech I had written, which I ask to be able to attach to the shorthand report of today's sitting. It was a political speech, which I would like to leave to the record, preferring to devote these last few minutes to a debate on agriculture. Because today, through this law of European delegation, we are celebrating the funeral of Made in Italy. Yesterday I also heard the Deputy Minister speak, as I also heard Senator Dalla Tor, whom I quote, when at some point he said that we are self-sufficient only for three products. But why do we keep giving inaccurate news? We're not self-sufficient. But why does no one remember that there are facts and contingency factors? From the 1970s to today from 18 million hectares of arable land we have grown to 13 million hectares: for goodness sake, the difference destined to industrial development and roads. Then it is not true, dear colleague, that we are self-sufficient only for three products. But if we were, it would be even worse. Precisely for this reason, if we import products, we must be sure of the difference between our product, Italian, guaranteed, and a product that comes from abroad. We should be even more concerned about that. It seems, however, that we do not understand the importance of indicating the place of production on the labels. For absurd reasons, we could also accept that packaging takes place in another country, provided we know what is the place of production that determines its quality, its peculiarities and the characteristics that I mentioned earlier. But this does not seem to be understood, or perhaps there is really an attitude of subjection towards this Europe that nothing is giving our country. I also wanted to mention Deputy Minister Olivero, who spoke about full traceability of products and huge resources. I do not know where you get these huge resources out because, if you refer to the cereal table, yesterday you mentioned the crisis in the cereals sector (as Senator D'Alì rightly recalled). But what are those three million euros for 2016 or those seven million euros for 2017, which affect, if only we divide them for soft wheat, for 10 cents per quintal? I dare not divide them for corn, barley, durum wheat, otherwise we would only talk about two or three cents per quintal. But do you think that it is so bad for Italian farmers that they need the charity that you propose to them with this two or three cent cereal scheme per quintal? No, gentlemen, you're wrong. Italian farmers, if they still practice agriculture today, is because they have so much dignity. But they're tired. They are tired of being treated in this way by a government that cannot understand the real problems of agriculture and by a minister who is not even present in this House when it comes to the laws of agriculture. I would also like to mention another colleague, the Senator of the PD Pignedoli, who was Vice President of the Agriculture Commission. What is the flagship of this law that you mentioned yesterday? My colleague said you networked the farmers. Perhaps there is a slip: farmers have been put into the network, they have fallen into this government's network. But you are wrong if you think of solving the problems of agriculture in this way because farmers are, first of all, good people who have in the family the character of the enterprise and, although their rhythms of life are marked by the seasons, they will be able to react to the injustice that this Government today does to Italian agriculture. We're tired! I say this on behalf of all farmers: try to do something, otherwise agriculture dies. For these reasons, we shall abstain on the vote on the measure only out of good will. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the written text of your speech so that it is annexed to the shorthand report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u22	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his difficult work and for keeping this important measure in balance. I would also like to thank the Government and the President of Commission 14a Vannino Chiti, who has always ruled this Commission with great balance and whom we are all grateful for the way in which he has moved on this path of delegation law. President, in the past in our country we have seen a Europeanism that I would call uncritical, a Euro-enthusiasm that made us think of Europe as the panacea for all evils, but that showed in concrete facts a certain superficiality. This has led to some choices that we discount today. Today we have to go back up the current because of mistakes made for an excess of facilonia in the approach to European issues and yet we are in a situation in some respects opposite: a hypercritical and, in turn, superficial Euro-scepticism. Today Europe is often used for polemics of very low league for internal purposes, which do not take account of the economic, social and entrepreneurial reality, neither the European Union nor our country. Both uncritical Europeanism and hypercritical euroscepticism seem to me to be two provincial expressions of our country, a way of entering a club as if we were always asking for something or demanding, without ever feeling active protagonists, or those who make European politics in the first person and not those who simply have to have a more or less indirect reflection on it. We have nothing to ask, nor to beg. We are simply calling for respect for the Treaties which we have freely signed and for their far-reaching application to strengthen the Union and not weaken it. There has been a great deal of strabism in the reading of the Treaties, which has led to only seeing the aspect of stability, rather than the aspect of growth. There is a merit that must be acknowledged to the Renzi Government: it has been able to impose on our European partners and interlocutors a more balanced and healthy vision, all the more necessary at a stage such as the one we have experienced that has been characterized and characterized by a long period of recession due to the financial crisis. In order to do this and to achieve a rebalancing of the issue of stability and growth, it was necessary to restore credibility, which - I regret to say - our country had lost both because of its inability to fulfil its commitments, first of all in reducing public debt, and because of the eccentric behaviour of some of our representatives and for the personal discredit that was reflected, because of them, on the whole country. It is a discredit which, at times, I fear, may be breathtaking, hearing the tone of some oppositions, which we have also heard in this House today and which are not good for the seriousness of the debate, nor for the image of Italy. Today Italy has fully regained its credibility on the personal level of its representatives, thanks to the work of the President of the Council and the representatives of its Government. We saw it in the aftermath of the so-called Brexit, when a trio of François Hollande, Angela Merkel and Matteo Renzi met in Berlin. We had never seen, in the past, Presidents of the Italian Council called in a phase of acute crisis, such as that which took place after Brexit. We have also seen this in the capacity to propose a new revival of the European Union, which will find a strong point at the Ventotene meeting at the end of August, and we also see it in the proposal to celebrate and relaunch the European Union on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the Treaties, in Rome, in March 2017. We are doing a great deal to recover, even in terms of the reliability of the commitments made, and this has been acknowledged by the European Commission. I would like to remind you that, a few days ago, the European Commission thanked Italy, highlighting that there was a reduction, from the 119 infringement procedures that were open against our country in March 2014 - that is, at the time when the Renzi Government took office - to the 78 proceedings that are now pending against our country. So there was a reduction of 34%, which the Commission itself said was unprecedented. Italy today recorded the best performances ever, compared to any other European country. The use of the Structural Funds, which, despite a frankly disastrous start, have now been totally used and reported. This is also a great merit of our Government, which makes us recover in credibility. This is also the reason why it is important to approve the delegation law on our examination quickly, and it is important that this cooperation between us and the House of Deputies has taken place, in order to allow not only the approval of the measure, but also the presentation of a new delegation law, in the second half of the year. Our country is gaining credibility thanks to structural reforms and, above all, thanks to the ability to put regional public debt under control: if this happens, it will be thanks to constitutional reform and the reform of Title V of the Constitution, which will allow the country to start a flexible regionalism, in which the crazy expenses of some Regions - which reach a regional public debt of 200 percent and, in one case, even 300 percent - strongly weaken the ability to operate of our Government, in the phase of containment of public debt, which is the main sin that is being rebuked us. With the approval of the reform in the autumn by the Italian people, on which we have no doubt, we will be able to bring a further piece of strength in our politics and to make our country's interests more assertive. Just as we are committed to complying with the rules, the other countries must do the same. Germany must increase its investment and reduce its trade surplus, which makes the European engine completely unsteady and in fact is a brake on the full recovery of the European economy. France must respect the deficit-to-GDP ratio, which has not been respected for years and is out of control. The clemency of the European Commission, which proposed yesterday, vis-à-vis Spain and Portugal, that the Maastricht parameters should be allowed to lapse, given the great efforts and important structural reforms that have been approved. It is also good that the Commission has instructed Poland to correct its system of constitutional guarantees within three months: let us stress that the European Treaties must be respected not only from the economic point of view, but also from the point of view of the values in which we recognise ourselves. The fact that there are countries today that pose serious problems from the point of view of respect for human rights and guarantees, including for immigrants, is a point on which the European Union can no longer close its eyes and sketch out. We believe that those who do not respect European principles, all European principles, should see the benefits suspended, starting with the allocation of the Structural Funds. We are a community that must share the responsibilities and the benefits, but those who do not share the responsibilities cannot share the benefits either: this is a point that must be affirmed and that will give dignity and strength to the political battle that the European Union is pursuing. Finally, Mr President, with regard to the subject we are talking about today, the subject of Brexit, it is important that the United Kingdom initiates the procedure for implementing Article 50 as soon as possible, because, at this stage of uncertainty and instability that characterizes European history, this path is not positive and creates further turbulence and further doubts for the future. I believe that it is possible for the European Union to recover important opportunities from the Brexit affair. There will be greater cohesion and the euro area will come to coincide more with the European Union; hence we will also be able to find greater cohesion on economic policies. In short, I believe that today, also thanks to the debate in this House, thanks to the speeches it seems crystal clear and clarifying on certain completely instrumental polemics (we have also heard it from the tones), thanks to the contributions of Senator Dalla Tor, Senator Bertuzzi, Senator Pignedoli and Senator Mancuso, who have silenced this instrumental way of using European politics for strictly internal electoral purposes and have well clarified the sense of the delegation law on Article 5, we are rendering an important service both to our country and to the European Union. We want to stand tall in the European Union, we want to enforce the principles and treaties, as we want to respect them, and we believe that this is the best service that we can do both to our country and to the European Union. For this reason, I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u23	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u24	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2451, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 2382. The rapporteur, Senator Azzollini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out first of all that the draft law under consideration is being introduced into a broader process of building the new budgetary rules initiated by Constitutional Law No 1 of 2012 which, when amending Article 81 of the Constitution and introducing the principle of budgetary balance into the Constitutional Charter, has entrusted it to a subsequent law of a reinforced nature with the discipline of the necessary implementing procedures; among them, the content of the budget law is precisely that of Article 15 (10) of the same law, which has been "reinforced" by Renato Loiero, Director of the Budget Service. In addition, I must point out that the initial text of the proposal, which is a parliamentary initiative, has been substantially amended during the Commission's examination in the Chamber, so that it must be taken into account, albeit in summary terms, given the high number of amendments to both the content of the initial proposal and the numerous subsequent innovations, which have been approved within a few days. Together with the integration of the two main instruments of the annual maneuver, the proposal provides for a change in the timing of the submission of the documents forming part of the budgetary cycle, compared with the current provisions of Article 7 of the Accounting Act. In particular, the deadline for the submission of the Update Note to the Economic and Finance Document is postponed to 27 September (at 30 September in the initial text, then amended to the Chamber's Budget Committee), compared with the current date of 20 September, and the deadline of 20 October (now 15 October) for the resolution by the Council of Ministers of the new draft budget law is also introduced. There is also an intervention on the Draft Budget Document, which states that within the same period (15 October), which is now scheduled for the submission of the Document to the European institutions, it will also be presented to the Chambers, thus filling a gap in the legal order, which does not provide for such a transmission to Parliament at the moment - the process of the draft law is not yet concluded. In addition, with regard to the DEF, there is also an intervention on the content of the second section of the DEF (Analysis and trends in public finance), where it is provided that it should also provide, at least for the following three years, detailed information on the results and forecasts of the accounts of the main sectors of expenditure (with particular reference to those relating to public employment, social protection and health), as well as on the debt of public administrations and their average cost. To this content it is now added, with modification introduced in the referee (letter c-bis) of paragraph 5), that the information in question should also cover the amount of interest expenditure in the State budget related to financial derivatives. The ratio of the intervention is clear. On the contents of the DEF, two new paragraphs (10- bis and 10-b) are inserted in Article 10 of the Act of Accounting, already provided for in the initial text but greatly modified during the examination in the Commission in the Chamber, with which the contents of the Document are included among those relating to fair and sustainable well-being. In particular, the development of fair and sustainable well-being indicators, selected and defined by the Committee for Fair and Sustainable Well-being Indicators set up at ISTAT itself, as well as forecasts of their development over the reference period, is provided for in this Annex to the DEF. To this end, the following Article 14 establishes a special committee at ISTAT. It is also expected (comma 10-b) that with a special report prepared by the Minister for Economic Affairs, to be presented to the Chambers by February 15 of each year, the development of the indicators of fair and sustainable well-being is highlighted, based on the effects determined by the budgetary law for the current three-year period. A further amendment contained in Article 1 concerns access to databases of public administrations, already provided for in the Accounting Act, but Article 1 of the draft law states that the access in question also has the purpose of allowing consultation by Members of Parliament. During the examination by the Chamber's Budget Committee, it was specified that the software used for the publication of budget documents is in open format and reusable in accordance with the rules of the Code of Digital Administration. The central element of the new discipline is - as is well known - the new budgetary law which, in Article 2, is divided into two sections, the first of which, which largely absorbs the contents of the current stability law, only includes measures aimed at achieving the public finance objectives indicated in the budgetary policy documents, namely the DEF and the Update Note. The second section is devoted to the forecast of revenue and expenditure expressed in terms of competence and cash and formed on the basis of the criterion of the current legislation and the proposals for remodulations to be introduced according to the conditions and limits set out in the proposed law. Among the other more significant elements contained in the text under consideration, it should also be mentioned that flexibility should be extended when preparing the second section of the draft budget bill, which extends the text of the accounting law to include a need for greater management flexibility, often introduced by certain transitional rules. With regard to the new structure of the budget law, it is appropriate to point out that its content, as well as better defined in some of its aspects that are not detailed here, during the examination in the Commission in the Chamber has also been the subject of further enrichment, given that in the examination have been made (paragraph 7 of Article 2 in comment) changes to the discipline of the gender budget, recently introduced by the law of accounting (article 38-f) by one of the two recent legislative decrees (the legislative decree n. 90 of 2016). The above article provides for the start of a trial of the adoption of a gender budget, for the purpose of assessing the different impact of budgetary policies on women and men, in terms of money, services, time and unpaid work. Together with the unification of a single document of the budget law, another of the central elements of the draft law concerns Article 3 of the Act of Accounting on the Financial Coverage of Laws and, in particular, the question of safeguard clauses. On these issues, the examination carried out in the Commission in the Chamber was particularly incisive, leading to a significant improvement in the initial text. In this regard, in taking note of the persistent difficulties in applying the clause as formulated in paragraphs 1 and 12 of Article 17 of the Accounting Act, there was a mechanism in which, in the presence of expenditure laws for which the monitoring showed a deviation of the burden compared to the forecast, the possibility for the Minister of the Economy to suspend with its own decree, pending corrective measures entrusted to the subsequent budget law, the effectiveness of the expenditure provisions was contemplated, subject to certain conditions. On this suspensive power some problematic profiles have emerged, with regard mainly to those cases where the provisions of expenditure confer subjective rights, which have led to the recasting of the rules. In confirming the elimination of the safeguard clause, a specific discipline has now been introduced in the event of a development of the charges not in line with the forecasts, differently articulated between countervailable deviations in the same year in which they occur and countervailable deviations in several years. With regard to the laws of expenditure, for the financial coverage of the laws that involve burdens, it is excluded that the use of the share of the eight per thousand of the IRPEF revenue donated to direct state management can be used. The aim of this prohibition is to solve one of the most critical issues that emerged in the application of Law No 222 of 1985, so that the share of eight per thousand under direct government management which is actually allocated annually is often considerably lower than that which is theoretically the responsibility of the State on the basis of taxpayers' choices, since this amount is being reduced in the course of the year in accordance with legislative provisions which provide for other purposes. Similarly, the same ban laid down in the draft law has been confirmed for the share of the five per thousand IRPEF revenue, for the part of the resources actually used on the basis of taxpayers' choices. Leaving aside Articles 4 and 5, important novelties were decided during the first reading examination, including on the updates of the accounting institutions and the management profiles proper to the budget and the general accounts of the State, as well as on the modalities of drafting the cognitive documents, with the insertion of Articles 6 to 15. With the insertion of Article 6, in particular, important modifications and additions have been made to the discipline of the commitments contained in Article 34 of the Act of Accounting, as reworded by Article 2 of the recent legislative decree No 93 of 2016, ensuring adequate "periodic" publicity to the information relating to the commitments of expenditure entered into for the years in which the obligation becomes chargeable, as well as to the information contained in the financial plans of payment. Article 8, also inserted in the course of the first reading, has ordered the repeal of paragraph 3 of article 44 ('Defination of cash balances') of the law, where the current norm previews the issuing of an ad hoc decree of the Ministry of the economy and the finances in order to predefine, in consistency with the international rules, the aggregates underlying the balances in question and the methodological criteria for the calculation of the same, in consistency with principles and rules fixed at international level. The addition then approved with the insertion of Article 44-c to the Act of Accounting, laid down in Article 9, has enabled a strict procedure to be established for the authorisation of the opening of liquidity managements attributable to the State administrations, when the latter are held for the purpose of carrying on accounts with the banking and postal system, and therefore outside the treasury circuit. Finally, the provision, as amended in the course of the examination of the Chamber, with the insertion of article 15, carries the delay of one year, from 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2017, of the terms for the exercise of the delegation relative to the adoption of a single text of the provisions in the matter of state accounting and Treasury, referred to in article 50, paragraph 2, of the law n. 196 of 2009, already extended several times. The need for the new extension stems from the entry into force this year not only of the new rules brought about by the measure under consideration, but also of the two legislative decrees no. 90 and 93 already mentioned, which make up as a whole a body of legislation whose implementation in a single text requires a longer term than the current date of 31 December 2016. In this way, the entire rules on state and Treasury accounting will be brought back to a single text. I have finished and I do not fail to recall that, for further aspects of interest, reference is made to the note from the Budget Service, which I thank for the competence and diligence with which it has followed the matter, together with the offices of the Budget Commission. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups) and Senator Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u26	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u27	Mr President, a report as broad as the one that has just finished showing Senator Azzollini needs very few additions. The analysis of the work done by Chamber and Senate on this important piece - the last we are going to vote on and which is part of a complex mosaic depicting a new structure of public accounting - is very comprehensive and important. 10.25 a.m. (Following BONFRISCO). The whole of the new rules, both for the drawing up of the budgets of institutions and bodies, and for the public choices on economic planning and on the finding and allocation of financial resources, are part of this important reflection and deepening, as well as the ability of Parliament to reform the most important instrument of the political action of any government. This is a new accounting framework that has been structured for an intricate set of issues, some exogenous and others endogenous to the previous accounting discipline; not only, therefore, for the need to define a new European economic governance, which began with the identification of the so-called European semester, with the various compacts and, for us, with the constitutionalization of the balance of the budget (even if it is more precisely a balance), and to give a firm, shared and immediate response to the crisis that has invested continental public finance since 2008. There is also the need to revise and reorder the anticipated accounting discipline, the result of a season begun with the first major reform of 1978 and continued with some changes, however very significant, that have followed in the course of almost thirty years; a season ended with the now distant law n. 196 of 2009, which however already contained the prodromes of that revision, of that reorder that is to our attention for some years. Thus, the so-called 2012 law of implementation of the balance of the budget, to the attention of the Parliament, have more recently followed several measures provided for by the accounting law and the reinforced law that have begun to complete the process of reform of the accounting law. Both here in the Senate and in the House, those measures have been examined, modified and approved in a bipartisan way - basically accounting rules need a certain duration, a bit like those of the Constitution, and suffer the sudden changes - giving rise to a substantially shared result, although there are reasons to express some reservations of some importance. I am thinking, for example, of the measure which introduced the commitment of public administrations to pursue balance of budgets. The need for simplification and efficiency, including in order to support investment, the management of territorial authorities, marked by the Internal Stability Pact and complex accounting rules, is obvious. However, pursuing the balance of the budget through a single final balance between revenue and expenditure, abolishing the current constraint on the current balance, seems to me to be a reckless choice, as its elimination leads to the weakening of guarantees for the correct achievement of public finance objectives; a concern, moreover, shared by several parties, including the Court of Auditors. For some time now, in the most disparate (institutional, academic, professional) offices, the need has emerged to review, in logic and content, the current system that annually leads to financial planning and budgetary decision. Thanks to the spirit of positive cooperation that has marked its progress in the Chamber - a collaboration that has been proposed in the Commission here in the Senate, despite the need for its rapid approval - this measure contains some elements that I am sure are relevant, to which the Services Studies of the Senate and the technical work carried out in the Budget Committee have contributed, as always in a timely manner. One element, as it were, of a scenario, is the further step taken to reduce more and more the rigid administrative structure of the budget, for a more flexible solution, more adapted to the needs of public action, public decision-makers, invested in the burden of deciding on how much and how to use the public resources available. Related to this aspect, I think it is important to go beyond the formal nature of the budget law. In the past years we have often stressed the difficulties and negative consequences of a budgetary decision based on two different documents. Today the unification of the budget law and that of stability, made possible by the loss of the formal character of the budget established by the deleted paragraph 3 of Article 81 of the Constitution, allows the budgetary decision to focus on all public revenue and expenditure, rather than on their variation to the margin, as is currently the case. In addition to the greater completeness of the budgetary cycle, another aspect that I consider to be significant is the increased attention to information, both related to the content of the documents, such as the detail on the development of the expenditure sectors envisaged in the DEF, and the one related to the new cognitive tools available to Parliament. Related to the issue of transparency is the elimination of safeguard clauses, which I think are very positive. I have always highlighted the absurdity of a mechanism that provides for the automatic increase of taxes and taxes to cover expenses exceeding the forecasts, and I am satisfied with the procedure that also invests the Chambers in finding additional resources. Of course, even this measure is not immune from criticism. On our behalf, we wanted to stress two points that should be considered less hasty, and we have done so with two amendments. The first, with regard to the coverage of spending laws, is aimed at abolishing the rule that provides for the possibility of changing parameters that determine the evolution of certain types of expenditure, thus broadening the current ways by which to provide financial coverage to new or increased burdens brought by legislative provisions. Well, we have proposed the removal of a somewhat general rule because it could be included in the cover already provided for in the accounting framework, but above all because intervening on those parameters means tightening them up, running the serious risk of resorting to uncertain savings to cover certain burdens. How many times the Budget Commission has reckoned with its own responsibility on this very ground. The other amendment relates to the information aspect. It is certainly a good thing to have provided a specific indication in the DEF of the interest expenditure that the State claims for having subscribed to derivative financial instruments - it is an ancient battle, an attention that was due - but, at this point, why not provide such an indication for each sub-sector of the public administration and the possible scenarios that can emerge? So we could also know the impact of all transactions in derivatives subscribed by public entities. As highlighted by an important investigation by the Senate of the last legislature, the impact on public finance of derivatives signed by local authorities is far from irrelevant. The new accounting framework, therefore, seems to outline rules appropriate to a necessary revision of the previous accounting framework in line with the increasingly pressing demands, including in Europe, for the containment of public expenditure and public debt. I should like to conclude, Madam President, by saying that I personally believe that the new accounting framework contains a number of aspects which certainly deserve further consideration. I am thinking, for example, of the central and peripheral relationship, perhaps still unbalanced and with great room for improvement, or - in order to remain on the subject of the coverage of the spending laws - the abolition of the current Article 11, which also provided for the coverage of the current charges brought by the current law of stability. But the need to avoid the so-called dequalification of expenditure means that somewhere the prohibition of worsening the current balance during the parliamentary examination is expressly stated. If the new accounting framework is to be a further step in terms of ensuring transparency and knowledge of the choices made by public action, I think that the two issues I have mentioned can and should be addressed in the debate and in Parliament's work. The first is complex and needs to be verified and deepened; the second, on the other hand, needs to be addressed as soon as possible, starting next October. We hope and hope that the introduction of the so-called gender budget, which has finally been conquered, will be a very useful instrument for a more effective and fairer reading of the state budget. [[Applause from Senator Tonini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u28	She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u29	Madam President, the draft law, which we are examining in a very haste today, contains some amendments to Law No 196 of 2009, concerning the content of the budget law, in implementation of Article 15 of Law No 243 of 2012. The objective of this law of parliamentary initiative is to modify the best known law of accounting and public finance. In particular, the draft law under consideration is intended to unify the law of stability and the budget law into a single measure, together with its contents, and to intervene on the cycle and financial programming instruments and on the timing of submission of the documents attached to them. Ultimately, the main aim that is to be pursued is to introduce - as economic planning objectives - the obligations deriving from the aforementioned reinforced law, bringing a further strengthening of the constraints deriving from the fiscal compact, for which the 5 Star Movement has always shown its strong disapproval. It is essential for us to affirm our opposition to the close link that is established between the law that defines the criteria and how to build the draft budget law and the law that dictates its main objectives and constraints, to which we are subject due to the accession to supranational treaties, the dramatic consequences of which the citizens ignored. This is something that we would have wanted to avoid strongly, even in the light of the fact that the new accounting instruments are conditioned by the famous European constraints that waver more every day and that we blindly observe without any consideration of collective well-being, environmental costs and above all social costs. The use of well-being indices such as the BES (fair and sustainable welfare), which contains indicators that take into account social, environmental and quality of life and the health of citizens, could serve - precisely - to change course. The need for a new, as optimally as possible direction is becoming increasingly urgent, not only taking into account the need to pursue the magical formula of GDP, but also to bring it closer to the real needs of all of us. For this reason, I will never tire of saying that, when planning the steps that a good government intends to take, we should start to consider the indicators of fair and sustainable well-being, which should be used as benchmarks, equal to GDP. On the other hand, it makes no sense - as has been done - to insert them as an annex, for mere knowledge, without recognizing any constraint value for future choices in the programming of the objectives to be achieved. We all know that no amendment will be adopted - there is no time - and therefore the text will not be amended. The measure under consideration is far too armored and it is unimaginable to include new elements. Even this way of working - a quick and hasty examination - shows that this majority is not willing to confront and find significant convergences, despite the fact that they are mainly questions relating to the rules. In order to make a Parliament work, there must be two: a majority and an opposition. The majority must be a free understanding of women and men not only tolerant but prone to discussion. The majority, on the other hand, believe that it is infallible only because it has, from its own, the overwhelming argument of the number and thinks that arithmetic suffices to confer on it the right to bury the oppositions. Yes, because sometimes it is thought that, under the tombstone of the vote, rights die, but not so. The parliamentary regime is not the one where the majority is always right, but the one where the reasons of the minority always have the right to be discussed. I repeat: always. The barrier between citizens and institutions can and must be overcome and if it still exists, the blame must be on the inability of the institutions, the carelessness of the rulers and a precise political will. I clarify my thoughts with the following words, not mine, but very dear to me: The dream is that direct democracy is affirmed and that the 5 Star Movement, achieved its objectives, is no longer right to be. In the sense that we want to change the system, we do not want to make a new party. I repeat: we do not want to make a new party, but to change the system and, if that means not to lower the guard, be sure that we will not lower it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u30	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u31	Madam President, this measure has been approved in the House of Deputies by a large majority, indicating that the rules can also be discussed and shared with opposition when it is desired. The rapporteur, Senator Antonio Azzollini, to whom we recognize a great competence in this matter, is the guarantee of the excellent work that has been done. The dramatic economic phase in which the country finds itself imposes stricter, more effective and binding rules to keep the situation under control. The budget balance is still a mirage, despite the government's proclamations, and the public debt gallops towards unthinkable and unsustainable goals. The change in the timing of presentation of the documents that make up the budget cycle and the contents of the DEF, which must be detailed information, the most precise and precise possible on the spending sectors, is therefore a necessity, otherwise everything we do becomes rag paper. The results of the entry policies and expenditure forecasts on the most important areas of our country's life - public employment, social protection, health care, public administration debt and interest expenditure - must be clear, irrefutable and indisputable. I stress two good things contained in the provision, with reference to the spending law, which are particularly close to my heart. Finally, the possibility for the Government to use the share of eight per thousand and five per thousand of the IRPEF revenue, donated to direct state management, for different purposes than those indicated by the taxpayer, is excluded. It has really been a nefariousness over the years, by all governments, to have used the sums in a different way than what the taxpayer has indicated. With eight per thousand and five per thousand, various problems have been solved, because the law provided for the use of those sums to save cultural assets in situations of serious degradation, for natural disasters, for hunger in the world, for assistance to refugees and, last but not least, for school construction. Several governments, on the other hand, have ruined these aims. I shall conclude my speech here, also in order to speed up our work and ask for permission to hand over to the Offices the full version to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u32	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u33	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u34	Madam President, Mr Deputy Minister, Senators and Senators, this measure completes the process of reforming the accounting system that began, after the reform of governance of public finance at European level, with Constitutional Law No 1 of 20 April 2012, which introduced the principle of balanced budget into the Constitutional Charter, and then continued with Law No 243 of 2012. Also in these days the House is called to approve the other pillar of the reform, namely that on the new rules for the budgets of regions and local authorities, which has already received the approval of the Senate. As was well illustrated in Senator Azzollini's report, the approval measure refers to a substantial regulatory intervention focused mainly on the Law of Accounting and Public Finance No 196 of 2009, and which makes numerous changes and additions, as it adds further articles. Relevant innovations are made in relation to resource planning, monitoring of expenditure targets to be achieved, while at the same time extending budgetary flexibility margins. And this happens both in the preparation of the draft budget law and in the management phase. These flexibility margins are used to allow administrations better allocation and programming of resources, as well as greater timeliness in payments. With this measure we can talk about a genuine structural reform, which will enable the Government and Parliament to deal with the programming of the budgetary cycle with reinforced instruments. Among the most important innovations introduced by the reform - as has already been mentioned by the rapporteur - there is an annual maneuver that will be defined with a single measure, consisting of a first part of provisions that supplement or modify the legislation of income or expenditure, or the current contents of the law of stability, and a second part of a table nature that absorbs the old budget law. These new rules will allow the approach and management of a more agile and modern budgetary maneuver, in line with what is done in other advanced countries, which - another important aspect - will be able to overcome the fragmentation of innumerable micronorms that - as we know well - have characterized this measure so far. With regard to changes to the process of establishing the state budget, the cornerstone of the reform is the new mechanism that rigidly links the budgetary decision to all public revenue and expenditure, rather than - as is the case today - to their variation to the margin. This will render structural and no longer episodic the maneuver of revision and recomposition of the expense, the so-called spending review. As highlighted by many of the contents of the bill, I think it is worth pointing out that in this way a so-called top-down economic policy approach can be strengthened, from the top-down; a training process, that is, which deeply innovates with respect to the existing one and which will certainly benefit the effectiveness of the overall economic policy strategy to be formulated. This increased effectiveness is also confirmed by the fact that current criticalities can be overcome, in particular by introducing specific incentives to reconsider historical expenditure, as well as marginal increases. As I said, it will be possible to facilitate and continue the process of recomposing and revising expenditure. With these new rules, I believe that the government will have a greater power of programming of central spending, which can be exercised early in the spring, as well as the fact that the Ministries will enjoy wider margins for managing their budgets. To this end, it should be stressed that the three-year definition of the expenditure targets for each Ministry is to be welcomed; programming is in line with the objectives set for the entire public administration in both the DEF and the overall budgetary maneuver. At the same time, it is expected that, with a view to approving the budget, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the individual ministers of the sector will be able to sign genuine agreements on the modalities and deadlines for monitoring the achievement of expenditure targets. Another fact to emphasize is that, with this measure, it will change the physiognomy also of the Document of economy and finance. It should, from now on, contain detailed information on the results and three-year forecasts of the accounts of the main sectors of expenditure, in particular those relating to public employment, social protection and health, as well as information and forecasts on debt and its average cost. It is important to stress that greater flexibility must be balanced - I believe this is the case in the measure - by the need for renewed and reinforced parliamentary control; and that the link between the budget forecasts and all the legislative authorisations which form the basis for this has been made transparent. The draft budget - as I have tried to summarize briefly - appears much more effective and functional than the one in force, especially because of the possibility of overcoming the approach that saw the General Accounting of the State start that measure by issuing a circular inviting the Ministries to transmit their assessments for the overall formation of the budget. Overcoming this procedure, I believe, will also make it possible to give greater organicity, as well as flexibility, to the action of the ministries in the field in relation to the objectives assigned to them. In the same way, I believe that greater strength can be emphasized precisely in the consideration of all the requests for funding, compared to the various functions to be carried out. The new timetable has already been highlighted, namely the possibility of submitting the update note to the DEF by 27 September, and then Parliament and the European Commission, as well as the Eurogroup, will receive the unified budget document by 15 October. I also welcome the introduction of new indicators for the impact assessment of standards, which use the so-called fair and sustainable budget of ISTAT. I believe that this is important not to reject Gross Domestic Product, which in some way remains an indicator of fundamental importance for each country both for its comparability over time and for its comparability at international level. In this case, it is a question of integrating and in some way supplementing the macro-economic guidelines, with programming which can also take account of other important aspects. Of course, it will be necessary to carefully assess the fact that these indicators have different measuring times and, above all, different cause-effect ratios. This, of course, does not prevent us from stressing the fact that we are launching such an experiment. In conclusion, Madam President, to sum up, I believe that with the adoption of the draft law in our examination we could start, already at this year's budgetary session and the presentation of the Update Note, a session of very renewed character. Above all, I believe that we will be able to overcome that practice, blamed by all but practiced by many, of the immense amount of micro-amendments associated with the maneuver, as well as we will be able to overcome the frequent use of safeguard clauses, in order to guarantee expenditure-related cover. There is no doubt, therefore, that this will be a decisive step forward, especially towards the possibility of a much more effective formulation and an equally effective management of economic policy measures for our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u35	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u36	Madam President, my reply will be very narrow, because perhaps it is more useful that it takes into account what has been said by my fellow Members in the debate at the time when the opinions are expressed. On the other hand, the broad convergence of the Senate on the basic lines of the bill is well known to us and therefore it is more useful to focus on the continuation of the work and in particular on the examination of the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u37	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u38	Madam President, it has already been said that the draft law before us introduces two fundamental changes in the decision and management of the public budget. Firstly, with the unification into a single legislative instrument of the law of stability and budgetary law, the conditions are created for overcoming the fundamental vice of the budgetary decision as it has been and is today in Italy: I am referring to its focus on the extreme margin of the budget - for a maximum value of one point or one and a half of GDP - completely neglecting the prevailing part. Secondly, this decision makes it possible to make full use of the budgetary effects of the change, not of legislation, but of the behaviour and administrative activities, which have hitherto been completely neglected in the budgetary decision itself, for the benefit of legislative innovation, i.e. the content of the current Stability Act. Through the unification of the law of stability and budgetary law, we put ourselves - this is the point and this is a huge leap in the quality of the budgetary decision - on the road that can finally lead to the so-called zero-based budget, which can put on firm legs the revision of expenditure, up to now hampered by a budgetary decision that acts in the purely incremental logic, i.e. variations on the margins of the historical component of the budget itself. In this way, the Italian public budget - the only one, in the European context, to maintain this characteristic - loses the character of a photocopy law of the existing legislation of income and expenditure, in order to assume that of a law that contains economic and fiscal policy choices functional to the attainment of the objectives set by the document of economy and finance, in turn consistent with those defined at European level in the exercise of the functions of coordination of economic and fiscal policies that belong to the European bodies. Here, on the relationship between decision-making and budgetary management at national level and the coordination of fiscal and economic policies in the European dimension, the only element of deep political distinction between majority and other parliamentary opposition groups on the one hand and the 5 Star Movement Group on the other has emerged. In fact, amendments have been tabled by the 5 Star Movement Group, both in the Commission and here in the House, aimed at deleting any reference to the European legal order from the law to our examination; in this House, for example, there is Amendment No 1.18 which has this character. It is an absolutely legitimate choice, and of enormous importance for the present and for the future of the country, of which I would like to stress precisely the political importance. (at 10.58 a.m.) (Following Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance). On the one hand we have those who want to change the sign of the prevailing economic and fiscal policy in Europe (prevalent in the recent past and to a large extent also in the present), but it considers it indispensable and absolutely essential to include the choices of national economic and fiscal policy within the framework, to be strengthened and deepened, of a real European economic and fiscal policy, considering that, outside this context, there are only impotence and marginality. On the other hand, there are those who reject the European dimension as such, in a sovereignist logic that seems to believe that there is salvation for individual European states, so also for Italy, outside the European dimension and in fact supports choices, such as the referendum on the euro, that could lead to the disintegration of the European dimension as a dimension capable of acting in the context of the global economy as a protagonist. This profound distinction is the only politically relevant one to have emerged from a discussion, first in the House and now in the Senate, which for the rest, on the choices concerning the keeping of national accounts and the budgetary decision, has marked a wide convergence [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Azzollini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u39	We now come to the examination of the articles of bill No 2451, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which will be discussed, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u40	Mr President, I shall make a preliminary point. The choice made in the Commission by the rapporteur was to give preference to the need for the immediate entry into force of the rules which, as we have agreed, are particularly felt, compared to an improvement in the text which, in my opinion, is necessary and which will be possible, so much so that the rapporteur has presented some agendas of the day by transposing in them the content of amendments on which there was a substantial agreement both with the Government and with the Commission. I repeat: after careful consideration, it has been considered that at this moment it is possible, through demanding agendas for the Government, to exceed the necessity, deemed to be in agreement, of the entry into force of the rules as they are. In this respect, I am opposed to the amendments, but since there are only a few amending proposals, it is perhaps useful in this case to express them for each of them. I shall then briefly discuss the rapporteur's only agenda. Let us go straight to the amendments. I therefore object to Amendment 1.2, also because the Presidency of the Council of Ministers is certainly already included in the concept of public administrations. Of course, the opposite opinion is associated first, if the senators wish, with an invitation to withdraw, also because of the type of opinion I am expressing. Amendments 1.3 and 1.4 add the word 'full', but I am always opposed to redundancy, because if you put an adjective to a consultation, then you never know what it will be like: consultation is consultation. For this reason, I would ask the authors of both the withdrawal amendments, otherwise the opinion would be against them. As for Amendment 1.6, I understand that Senator Comaroli intends to withdraw it. For Amendment 1.7, where we are talking about full and free access, it is worth the same as before, but above all here it is worth a consideration that I give to you, Mr President: Parliament's access to databases in general must be regulated, as already provided for in the legislative text, by Parliament's regulations. We in the Commission have also considered these amendments to be more important, but at the same time I call on the Presidency to ensure that this access is immediately regulated by the parliamentary regulations. Having already, in the previous measure, allowed the Parliamentary Bureau access to the data, it is useful for Parliament as a whole to have access to it in accordance with the Regulations, as provided for in the previous legislation. That is why I am against Amendment 1.7. Senator Uras, I invite you to withdraw Amendment 1.10 because the question of the end of the budget was raised by several and also by me on reasonable terms, but it was worth the initial consideration. That is why I call on you to withdraw. Otherwise, the opinion is against it. I am opposed to Amendment No 1.12 because the dissemination of data does not seem to me to be consistent with the current regulatory system for presenting the budget. I call on you to withdraw amendment 1.13, otherwise the opinion is against it, because the reference given by the European Union's legal system is very general. With regard to amendment 1.17, I would like to make an additional point: the reference to Europe 2020, since it is a rule of substance, is not strictly related to an order rule such as the one we are dealing with. That is why, again, Senator Mangili, I would ask you to withdraw the amendment otherwise the opinion is against it. The same applies to amendment 1.18, identical to the previous one. With regard to the issue dealt with by amendment 1.23, i.e. derivatives, I am pleased with the appreciation that Senator Bonfrisco has addressed to the text of the law also because she has been particularly interested in this problem, but it is not in this rule of law or in the state budget that such technical data can be expressed as such that should be dealt with in the appropriate forums. I recognise, of course, that this is a very important rule, but I would ask you to withdraw the amendment, otherwise the opinion is against it. With regard to amendment 1.24, here too the definitions are very general, for example social justice, while the one on the sustainability of public debt is already foreseen. I therefore call for the withdrawal or the opinion is against it. The opinion on the G1,500 agenda is obviously in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u41	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u42	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u43	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u44	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u47	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I withdraw all the amendments tabled in Article 1. I propose the transformation of amendment 1.12 into the agenda, which commits the Government to disseminate not the data but the contents of the budget law first to the Chambers rather than to the press, for an obvious reason of institutional correctness and operation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u48	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda G1.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u49	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u50	The government accepts the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u51	The G1.12 agenda has therefore been adopted and we hope that the commitment requested will be respected. Amendments 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4 have been withdrawn. Senator Comaroli, do you accept the call for the rapporteur's amendments to be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u52	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment No 1.6 and ask that we be able to turn Amendment No 1.7 into an agenda, so that we can immediately regulate access to this data, because it is really a source of problems and difficulties for all of us that we cannot have them immediately. This slows down our work as well as making full knowledge of data difficult.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u53	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u54	This is a wish I had expressed, and I am therefore in favour of the G1.7 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u55	Mr President, the Government accepts the agenda. I would point out, however, that I also agree because just a few days ago the budget figures were made available to everyone in interoperable format, that is not only to Members of Parliament but also to all citizens who want to see them. This means that we have made a very important leap in quality in terms of transparency right now.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u56	The G1.7 agenda was therefore accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u59	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u60	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.7 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.10 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.12, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Bulgarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.17, tabled by Senator Mangili and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.23.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u63	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I will speak very quickly. In recent years the issue of derivatives has seen Parliament express itself on several occasions in order to point out its danger and its great weight on the state budget and especially on that of local administrations, no less concerned - as we said before - by this phenomenon. We have moved from the season of indifference and non-knowledge to a season of awareness of the great danger within the budgets of the States (not only ours) and other financial institutions as important as banking and therefore of the unknown and so little known effects, also by virtue of their nature, of derivatives that could continue to hide losses in the amount of interest on the debt that we do not yet know. I therefore welcome Senator Azzollini's invitation and I know how much the Budget and Finance Commissions have intended to support the government's action to make this fact known as much as possible. I remember, however, just for the record, how, some time ago, a request from Parliament to know precisely the effects of derivatives on the state budget was rejected by the Government, which intended to prevent access to acts by parliamentarians. I would therefore like to draw the attention of the Government once again so that at this stage the transformation of Amendment 1.23 into an agenda may, however, be the beginning of a much more positive and transparent path between the Government and Parliament on the issue of derivatives. I do not think there are any governments that can or want to hide this; I think that an agenda indicates a clear will from Parliament and that this Government has, in my opinion, every interest in accepting it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the change in the agenda which has just been announced.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u64	Mr President, I am in favour of converting the first part of Amendment 1.23, which provides for an extension from the interest of the State budget to the amount of public interest expenditure. I do not agree, because it is still a rule of order, on the question of the cost of the relative risks expected and on the use of probabilistic methodologies, because they do not seem to me to be converging with the provision of law. I would therefore ask Senator Bonfrisco to accept a formulation of the agenda that ends with the words: "publics related to financial derivatives". Up to that point I am in favour, otherwise I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u65	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. I would point out, moreover, that the text, accepting an amendment tabled to the House, therefore a parliamentary initiative, already contains the choice to highlight (where the issue of highlighting interest expenditure is addressed) separately and separately the expenditure on interest from financial products so-called derivatives. The first part of the amendment which has been transformed into an agenda is therefore accepted (but it says what is already written in the text); the second part, on the other hand, would not be accepted by the Government if the proposer insisted on its presence in the text of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u66	Senator Bonfrisco, do you accept the wording proposed by the rapporteur and the representative of the government?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u67	Mr President, I accept the proposal on the division of the two issues contained in the text. I just want to remind you that the so-called assessment of probabilistic scenarios is what the European Union indicates in order to be able to analyse precisely the weight, even hidden, of the financial instruments derived from that expected cost (mark to market, as the financial language defines it) which, as well as the probability of losses and risks associated with these instruments, also deals with future projection. I would ask that the agenda, structured as requested, be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u68	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.23, tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Augello. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator Mangili and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1,500 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u71	Mr Azzollini, rapporteur. Mr President, as far as my agenda is concerned, I should like to ask you whether you can ask the Government for its opinion before you proceed to declare its acceptance.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u72	It was in line with that of the rapporteur, so it should be in favour. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are set out, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u73	Mr President, Amendments 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 concern micro-sectoral interventions, so I would ask Senator Comaroli to withdraw them, otherwise I am against them. In particular, Amendment 2.3 provides for a negative opinion binding on the Government, which is not convincing, so I ask for its withdrawal. I withdraw amendment 2.4, Mr President, but I ask the Government whether it is possible to turn it into an agenda. There is a sensitive issue, so I have maintained the amendment. I am going to the substance: with this amendment, apart from its technical formulation which incorporates experiments that were already in force (and in fact on the agenda I am referring to 'analogues' experiments), we try to be more stringent in cases where there is a deviation between burden and cover. I repeat that the work of the House's Budget Committee has been well done: it has already introduced some constraints on the current wording of the safeguard clause. But the problem I have posed is that, in this case as a general rule, we must have the long-term perspective, in which the problem of debt and deficits that generate it can be placed in Italian public finance. I therefore ask the Government to consider the possibility of introducing stricter rules in other measures in the case of mismatches, in the same exercise, in particular, between burden and cover. The proposal is about negative funds, which are a technique already well known in Italian public finance, but I ask that it be applied in a similar way, i.e. with the same regulatory force as the negative burdens. I would like to return to the Government for an assessment of the possible transformation of amendment 2.4 into the agenda. I am against Amendment 2.6. I am in favour of the adoption of the G2.100 agenda, contrary to the G2.101 and G2.102 agendas and again in favour of the adoption of the G2.103 and the G2.104 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u74	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. With regard to amendment 2.4 and its change to the agenda, the text which the rapporteur has sent to me, if the rapporteur agrees, the Government accepts the agenda as a recommendation, because in fact there is a commitment to re-introduction of the negative funds. We do not have time to go into the subject, but the substance is that historically we have had two forms of safeguard clauses, of which what we have systematically used in the past was the negative fund, that is, while we are planning to spend 100 for a certain item or purpose in the budget, it is said that 50 of those 100 will not be actually spent unless certain conditions are met. The negative fund meant a brake on expenditure which, of course, in the course of the year introduces enormous uncertainty about the size and quality of expenditure itself. We have then replaced the negative funds with the current safeguard clauses which - said in a bar language - say this: today we are not able to cover this expenditure, if it is to break through, we will possibly cover it with new taxes, such as the increase in VAT, the increase in excise duties and so on (we are doing the same now). In both cases, they are measures that introduce uncertainty, where economic growth instead means certainty of budgetary rules and conditions. The solution that we have adopted in the law seems to me, with a very broad consensus, to overcome both of these types in order to introduce a strong political constraint on the Government to that the breakouts for the following years are necessarily addressed in the three-year budget law. However, I welcome the agenda G2.4 as a recommendation, because it is never a matter of saying, unfortunately, and under the public finance conditions of our country it is not excluded that it is necessary to return to the negative funds.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u75	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u78	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u79	We take note of that, Senator Comaroli. Amendment 2.4 has been withdrawn and transformed into an agenda which the Government has accepted as a recommendation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G2100 agenda was accepted by the Government. Do you insist on being voted on, Senator Comaroli? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr President, I am asking for the vote and I also insist on voting on the other agendas that I have tabled. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G2.100, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.101, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.102, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.103, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G2.104, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are set out, and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u80	I am against Amendment 3.2 because it deletes a possibility of cover. The opinion is also opposed to Amendment 3.5. As regards the agendas for G3,500, G3,501 and G3,502, the opinion is obviously in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u81	The Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u82	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.2, tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Augello. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.5, tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Augello. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G3,500, G3,501 and G3,502 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 6, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, to which I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u83	Mr President, the opinion is against amendment 6.2 and, of course, in favour of the G6500 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u84	The Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u87	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I understand the way in which Senator Azzollini, in his capacity as rapporteur, expresses a contrary opinion. I know it's not about the substance, but it's about the formal part... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bonfrisco, what amendment are you referring to? BONFRISCO (CoR). I am referring to amendment 6.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u88	We are on Amendment 6.2. Senator Azzollini, would you like to comment on Amendment 6.0.1?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u89	Mr President, the reason why my opinion on Amendment 6.0.1 will be against is because it introduces a substantive rule which, in my opinion, does not take place in any sort of legal order. The possibility of introducing funds in general is perfectly compatible with the general law of the accounting system. For this reason, I am opposed to amendment 6.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u92	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I understand why the rapporteur and the representative of the Government stand on this line. I would like to ask the Government, given the importance and urgency of addressing this issue, to consider the amendment as an agenda, of course with regard to a future legislative text. The support needed today for local authorities to design those infrastructures that we see never leaving despite the great efforts that governments make, is at the heart of this solicitation that I put to the representative of the government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u93	This rule cannot be included in the accounting law, but an agenda could be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u94	Does the rapporteur speak in a consistent way? Mr Azzollini, rapporteur. Yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u97	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the content of amendment 6.0.1, which is now on the agenda. Maybe I don't understand. It is right to have a revolving fund for design, also in the light of the new procurement code, which provides that in order to compete, projects, especially under the million euros, must be implemented. I would like to remind Senator Bonfrisco that the Rotary Design Fund is established by Law No. 549 of 1995, at the Deposit and Loan Fund. It is a fund which already exists and which has been very little used. The tables explain, in fact, that in 2003 38 million euros were granted to municipalities, while in the year 2011 (last available year) there were only two million euros. The fund therefore exists, but is not used. Furthermore, in the proposal by Senator Bonfrisco, which from this point of view is absolutely acceptable (but I would not like to create a fund that already exists), we are talking about taking money from the Development and Cohesion Fund, which, as we know, 80% is reserved for the southern regions of the former Convergence Objective. Since it has happened so many times that money has been taken from the southern regions to distribute it to all of them, let us remember to give the right weights and proportions. Otherwise, we will do everything with that Cohesion Fund, as always. Moreover, we are talking about real estate development and therefore these resources can also be used for this purpose. Now, with real estate enhancement many things have been realized in this country. Therefore, perhaps it is right that municipalities, regions and ministries may have at their disposal a rotating fund which is then filled up when the funding is granted. Using it also for real estate valuations may not be a perfect and fair measure. But that is our opinion, and so I wanted to bring it back. I repeat, however, that the Fund already exists. So let us be careful only about this aspect.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u98	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2, tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Augello. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G6500 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I ask Senator Bonfrisco if she insists on voting on the agenda G6.0.1. BONFRISCO (CoR). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.0.1, tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Augello. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 10, on which an agenda has been presented, which is intended to be presented, and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I give a favourable opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G10.500 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 16. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u101	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u104	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, this measure is very important, although perhaps the most people can consider it boring and difficult to understand, but it is really important for all the work of this Parliament, which goes to decide for the citizens. The regret lies in the fact that, as the rapporteur said, although it could also be improved in the Commission with the amendments tabled, it must be done quickly. I understand the need to define this measure: in the near future all procedures, documentation and data will have to be prepared in order to formulate the future law for 2017. 11:38 a.m. (Follow COMAROLI). That is what I would like to pay attention to. Many times in this House we are more concerned about quantity than about quality. There is a kind of eagerness to present so many measures and amendments. One acts driven by the eagerness to do, but then on the important things one does not pay due attention and does not give the time that a provision like this deserves. For this bill there was a contribution provided by the various technicians, because this is the nature of the measure, it is a technical measure. Some very positive innovations are, for example, the safeguard clauses, which will at last no longer be included. I remember the famous VAT safeguard clause: we still do not know whether or not there will be this increase in VAT; it remains like a sword of Damocles that we have on our heads and we do not know what will become. Fortunately, from now on this will no longer be the case. The same applies to micro-sectoral standards. Again, something has been done, but more could be done. It goes without saying that we cannot make micro-sectoral rules when we always find or create ad hoc funds, such as the one set up by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers for the exclusive use of President Renzi and Minister Boschi. In the measure another important rule has been inserted, which provides that if the resources of the 8 per thousand of the IRPEF are destined by the citizens for a specific purpose, this purpose must be maintained, avoiding what has happened so far, that is that the Government of turn (I think of the Governments Monti, Letta and Renzi) uses these resources for other purposes. As I said, Madam President, more could have been done about transparency. As we have just heard from Deputy Minister Morando, the data are now online and can be accessed. Mr Deputy Minister, what is not public is the database of the commitments and payments of the General Accounting Office of the State and that is what I referred to. So we do not know what the progress of payments and commitments is and we do not know how much availability there is on that chapter. Maybe there is also the problem of having adequate support structures, to be put in communication with each other, but this is still a real problem. Another issue on which we had focused our attention is the possibility of removing automatically those provisions that the Government, perhaps taken to the whim of issuing the measures, sometimes inserts, although contrary to the accounting regulations. It is true that this deletion should take place by default, and that is what we are told, but we note that this often does not happen. Another measure we asked for is that regional governments should also be involved in economic policy objectives and economic and public finance forecasts, at least for the three-year period. In this case too, local authorities and, in particular, the regions cannot be asked to participate in a time of economic crisis and not to include them in these forecasts: they must also be able to make their programming. I would like to repeat that, Madam President, the draft law before us is going to remedy some of the present problems, but more could have been done and I hope that this will happen in the future. Our Group will therefore abstain on this measure, because the regret that we cannot improve it, just for a matter of time, is unacceptable to us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u107	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, the vote of our Group will be in favour. We have, in fact, greatly appreciated the changes made to the state budget law and also the attitude of the Commission in the referee and the joint work that has been done to improve certain aspects. Senator Comaroli is right: perhaps we could have done something else and could have had a greater impact on what we consider Nesso's shirts than the programming activity and the political direction that then takes place in the budget. We always think, for example, of the leghold trap of Article 81 of the Constitution and the lack of proper budgetary flexibility. However, the measure before our examination has acclaimed and confirmed the importance of transparency, the ability to read budgets and the understanding of all aggregates in support of the overall maneuver. We also appreciate the introduction of well-being indicators and the overcoming of a certain rigidity, which so far has made the overall maneuvers perceived as inattentive in relation to the more direct needs of citizens. Therefore, Madam President and representative of the Government, I am voting in favour of the Great Autonomous Groups and Freedoms. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u110	Mr Langella (AL-A). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are considering is extremely important. It represents a further part of that process of amending the accounting law that began in 2009 with Law No 196 and then continued with Law No 243 of 2012. This is a measure which is also the instrument we use to implement Article 81 of the Constitution, the one on balance of the budget, which has caused so much controversy on a regular basis. A rule, as has been said many times, included in the Constitution for the imposition of the European Union or for supine acquiescence on our part towards the Diktats coming from Oltralpe. However, whether it be constraints or not, the essential value that a serious country must pursue is to have the accounts in order and in order to do this, it is certainly not necessary to wait for someone to come and tell us: it must be our requirement, our responsibility. What is different is to feel the need for the budget to have a certain balanced and healthy capacity to be flexible, especially to cope with unpredictable economic crisis phases, where excessive rigidity of budgetary rules ends up becoming harmful and paralysing for any administration. Well, this measure allows us to do one thing and the other, because Article 81 does not provide for a tight balance, but the balance between revenue and expenditure, taking into account adverse links and the favourable phases of the economic cycle. And we must understand the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that in a country like ours, characterized by a high public debt, it is necessary to have a balanced budget and serious accounts, unless we want to live with the anguished risk of the possibility of default. Moreover, we have seen that in these three years flexibility has not been prevented, indeed it has been shifted, with three separate measures, the three-year structural budget balance, from 2016 to 2019, following the rules of Article 81 and without the European Union observing anything. It is also another thing that we are talking about in a different and more effective way with the European Union, so that European policies are a real change of pace, especially at a time when the European institutions are experiencing a moment of severe crisis and a lack of credibility for large sections of the population. We must therefore review austerity programmes, focus more on employment and development and overcome mere monetary unification, in order to achieve stronger, more shared and more livable political integration. But let's get back to the point. This measure is essentially aimed at simplifying the budget law, making the law of stability fail, with all those out-of-pocket forecasts that annually resulted in a real assault on diligence, with the most disparate and various norms enclosed in a single, chaotic cauldron of provisions, whose guiding thread was practically impossible to identify. The content of the current Stability Act will now be absorbed by the Budget Act, which will only be drawn up with measures aimed at achieving the public finance objectives set out in the budgetary policy documents, i.e. the DEF and its Update Note. It seems to us a good example of simplification and transparency, in the search for better accounting regulation, which must not only serve those who benefit from it at the present time, but also aspires to set themselves as a lasting model of reference for those who will come to govern and legislate after us. In fact, this measure has in itself important political effects, which translate mainly into the intelligibility of data, which can therefore be understood not only by the legislator, but by all those who want to get passionate about public accounting. This will therefore provide citizens with a great deal of transparency in assessing economic and fiscal policy choices, as well as other policy-making dynamics. This is a very important element that must not be underestimated and, indeed, its presence must be emphasized, along with other positive points that I would like briefly to list, given the limited time available: the first, already mentioned, is the simplification of the budgetary session. The whole process of approving the budget is concentrated in a single law and the separation between the budget law and the stability law is overcome and the law is absorbed into the budget law. Secondly, the cash balance is strengthened, since it is better aligned with competence, making it more rational and, moreover, the possibility of micro-sectoral and localistic interventions is exceeded. Moreover, the text provides greater access to data, including software used for the management of data by the Government for the purpose of outlining the public finance maneuver. All this is good because it will also make the mechanism for approving the state budget more understandable to citizens. The strict safeguard rules, which have generated problems and controversy in recent years, are exceeded, not in the sense that they will disappear altogether, but in the sense that they will be better defined and declined. This is a good thing, so that last-hour maneuvers and maneuvers are avoided, or automatic and unbearable increases in the tax burden. Parliament's involvement is expected to be greater, although this particular aspect should still be improved. In any case, the Draft Budget Document approved by the Council of Ministers is sent at the same time both to Brussels and to Parliament by 20 October each year, and this lays down for the affirmation of a whisper of dignity towards the European Commission, which, in my view, has been missing in recent years. An important and correct thing, because it goes in the direction of respect for the choices of taxpayers' citizens, is the fact that the possibility of using the funds of 8 per thousand and 5 per thousand for extraordinary needs of public finance is excluded. Again, in the text we find a novelty that we feel to appreciate very much, namely the inclusion of the use of eco-sustainable well-being indicators (BES), in the evaluation and orientation of budgetary choices and policies. This is a very important thing that we want to stress, because it is a significant element of innovation, which tells us that GDP is not enough to understand what will be the real impact that economic manoeuvres will determine over time and in our society, but we need to refer, precisely, to other indicators such as social quality or environmental sustainability. Of course, we are still a little far from the objective of achieving the so-called environmental balance, that is, the use of a new method and logic that allows us to assess the repercussions, from the point of view of sustainability and quality of life, of the totality of the interventions put in place by the public administration, since sustainability must be considered as a cross-cutting element to all the political choices that can be made. But in any case, we're happy at the moment. In the end, beyond technicalism, this serves the budget and public accounting: to positively affect the existence of people, to guarantee their right to work, to protect their civil rights and health, to work for the well-being of everyone and to make this country still capable of the future. If all this is not perceptible and does not impact people's lives in a concrete way, it will be useless for us to try to train ourselves on improbable technical and legislative funambolisms. Perhaps we can create some special effect, perhaps good to amaze ourselves, but we will not have changed by a comma the everyday life of people, which today is too often tiring and uncertain and calls us to new responsibilities. In this spirit of appreciation of the work done, and of hope for further, future improvements, I announce the vote in favour of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Autonomouss. [[Applause from Senator Mazzoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u113	URAS (Mixed). Madam President, I would like to speak briefly in order to vote in favour of the measure and to stress that a step forward is being taken in relation to the budgetary documents, even if it is sensitive, and some concepts are introduced which were previously completely absent from the manoeuvre: I think that the one on eco-sustainable well-being has a particular value. I conclude with the hope that this form that we are adopting will also serve to better qualify Parliament's action in economic planning. In fact, while some progress has been made on the budget records, on the containment of expenditure and on the transparency - I mean - of accounting records, on economic planning issues, Parliament and the committees responsible for this function, together with the responsibility before the Government, are still not up to the need. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u116	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure that we are about to vote on is of fundamental importance in that political and legislative reform action that this Government, with the indispensable contribution of the force that I represent, is making on budgetary and accounting rules. The interventions of this bill are part of a broader process of building the new budgetary rules, initiated by Constitutional Law No. 1 of 2012, amending Article 81 of the Constitution. On that occasion, the principle of budgetary balance was introduced, requiring a subsequent law to strengthen the discipline of the necessary implementing arrangements and the definition of the content of the budgetary law. In considering a brief summary framework, we are faced with a phase of overall reform of the state budget, which is supplemented by three other measures: in particular, the delegation on the completion of the structure of the budget under Article 40 of the accounting law, on which we expressed the opinion in February 2015, whose contents have been transfused into Legislative Decree No 90; the delegation on the strengthening of the function of cash budget, in implementation of Article 42 of the accounting law; the bill being examined in the House, with which the balance of budgets for regions and local authorities is modified, to strengthen its role as a management cabin within the reference territory and to encourage a more efficient management of resources at local level, which will take account of individual specificities. The draft law under consideration, which proceeds in parallel with the one mentioned above, takes on a simplified and rationalising nature of the procedures for the formation of the state budget: it is envisaged that the two main instruments of the annual maneuver (budget law and stability) will be integrated and that the time taken to present the documents which make up the budget cycle will be changed in relation to what is now governed by Article 7 of the accounting law. In addition, there is an intervention on the budgetary programme document, which states that within the same period (15 October) now provided for the submission of the document to the European institutions, it will also be submitted to the Chambers, thereby filling a gap in the system which does not currently provide for such transmission to Parliament. The contents of the DEF are then dealt with through the inclusion of two new paragraphs (10- bis and 10-b) in Article 10 of the Accounting Act, which include among the information content of the document those referring to the BES, that is to say to fair and sustainable well-being. A major change provided for in Article 1 of the measure concerns access to the databases of public administrations, already provided for in the Act of Accounting: it has been pointed out that the access in question also has the purpose of allowing consultation by Members of Parliament. The central element of the new discipline is the new budgetary law, which is divided into two sections in Article 2: the first, which largely absorbs the content of the current stability law, only includes measures aimed at achieving the public finance objectives set out in the budgetary policy documents, i.e. the DEF and its Update Note. The second section is devoted to the forecast of income and expenditure, expressed in terms of competence and cash, formed on the basis of the criterion of the current legislation and the proposals for remodulations to be introduced according to the conditions and limits set out in the legislative proposal. Another central element of the draft law concerns, in Article 3, the intervention on Article 17 of the Law on the financial coverage of the laws and, in particular, the question of safeguard clauses. The removal of these clauses is provided for by the introduction of a specific discipline in the event of a development of charges which is not in line with the forecasts, differently articulated between countervailable deviations in the same year in which they occur and countervailable deviations in more than one financial year. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the People's Area Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u119	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, I would just like to declare the 5 Star Movement Group's vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u122	TONINI (PD). Madam President, if you will allow me, I would like to say a few words as President of the Budget Commission and thank all my colleagues for the great work they have done together, in a very constructive spirit and I would like to say constituent, as was also perceived by the tone of the debate in this House. This is a work that has been done in close liaison with colleagues in the House of Deputies. We have presented the two draft laws of parliamentary initiative, obviously concerted with the Government, in parallel in the two Commissions; we have obviously discussed them first in the House and then in the Senate, but in a substantially joint form, so as to arrive today at a text that sees the convergence already at first reading of both Chambers. As a Senator of the Democratic Party, I would like to vote in favour of our Group on a measure of extraordinary importance, which has already been defined by my colleague Guerrieri Paleotti as a structural reform and is such because it completes a triptych composed of the new article 81 of the Constitution, by law n. 243 of 2012, implementing Article 81, and then today by the new accounting law. It is a structural reform of which it is difficult to overestimate the importance for the country if it is only taken into account that, roughly, the state budget collects and tries to put order in half of the national wealth, half of the gross domestic product. Every year half of the wealth that Italians produce is managed in some way by public spending, by the State, and it is absolutely clear that the methods of management and governance of this expenditure are essential for the progress of our country. (at 12.05 a.m.) (Tonini followed). On the contrary, in a phase like this in which, for one verse, for many years the country has been growing at a rate too slow and, for the other, inequality has returned to growth, it should be possible to say that the optimal management of that large amount of resources that the State has is a strategic step for our future. A wealth of the country, which amounts to 800 billion out of 1,600 billion gross domestic product managed by the State, that cannot produce either sufficient growth or equal opportunities for all our citizens that would be desirable: this is proof that today this wealth is managed in an inefficient and ineffective way. Of course, this result, which I certainly do not think is satisfactory for anyone in this House, has to do with politics, with the political orientations of this and that Government and that we discuss it elsewhere every day, but it certainly also has to do with the instruments we have. Therefore, in this House - and first in the Chamber and Senate Budget Committees, in the Montecitorio Chamber and today in the Palazzo Madama House - a large majority said that, without prejudice to the differences we have from the political and problematic point of view, we want to modernise together the instrument of budgetary governance and therefore that half of the wealth of Italians who in some way refer to the State. I am not going back to the content of this reform; it has already been done extensively by the rapporteur, Mr Azzollini, whom I thank, as always, for the punctuality, availability and political intelligence with which he has accompanied this path; Vice Minister Morando and Mr Guerrieri Paleotti have said so. There is the rationalization of the parliamentary calendar, which is seemingly trivial, but it has its importance. There is, much more importantly, the uniqueness of the budget law, which allows us to avoid this rite of assault on the diligence that is repeated every year in Parliament, on a minimum amount of resources compared to the universe of the budget. Finally, there is the possibility of intervening on the budget as a whole, including through administrative action, not just legislative action, in order to make the revision of expenditure effective and therefore the optimal use of public resources. There is access to data, as has been said, which is being expanded, particularly for Parliament, but not only. There is, even, the introduction of a qualitative element of the assessment of the use of public wealth, represented precisely by indicators of fair and sustainable well-being. I would quickly like to touch on two political points which seem to me to be of absolute importance. The first relates to the link between this reform and the reform of Article 81 of the Constitution which we approved in the last legislature in 2012. It is often said that with the new Article 81, the Government and Parliament have tied their hands, that we have more constraints than the possibility of using the budget in an expansive way. What we are voting on today is proof of the opposite: we are voting on an accounting law that allows that flexibility, attentive to the economic cycle, which the old Article 81 of the Constitution did not allow and which, on the other hand, the new Article 81 provides for and regulates in a serious and rigorous manner. We have, therefore, a public accounting tool linked to the new Constitution, dependent on the new Article 81 introduced in the Constitution, which allows policy - good policy - to really do its job, so to use resources wisely in the expansionary phases, to produce that surplus which, then, in the recessive phases of the cycle can be used to support the demand. The last point, the one on which a distinction and a difference were marked, in particular with the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, concerns the relationship with Europe. Of course, the new Article 81 of the Constitution, the new system law n. 243 of 2012 and the accounting law provide for a procedure that strongly connects our government of public resources with decisions that are taken together at European level. It is not a devolution of sovereignty, but a sharing of sovereignty that we have decided to put together with others who share the extraordinary adventure of the single currency and the construction of a political Europe. Today we are dissatisfied with the way Europe works, but - be careful - not because we must and can go back to more sovereignty of individual states and nations, but because we must build together a pact that is not only stability but also growth. This is the difficult element of our system. A few years ago it was said that alongside the fiscal compact there had to be a growth compact, that is, a pact for growth. The problem is not to call into question the Stability Pact, and therefore also the fiscal compact, but it is like accompanying the fiscal compact, that is to say, a pact of fiscal seriousness (which must reduce debt, that is, the waste of public resources), a pact that is really for growth at European and national level. That's what we're busy with. It is, of course, an entirely political issue, perhaps the most political one that at this moment distinguishes and divides the Italian political lineup, and not only Italian. In this sense, the approval of the reform of the accounting law allows us to take a decisive step forward. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u125	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I should have spoken earlier, but because of the unusual speed at which the explanations of vote took place, I was unable to get to the House on time. Thank you, therefore, for giving me the floor. Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out that the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the adoption of this measure. Today we are examining the rules of the game, the precepts to write in the most appropriate way the numbers of public accounts. These decisions are all taken together, so much so that our Group has already taken part in the adoption of this measure in the House. Moreover, here at Palazzo Madama we were part of the cross-section that signed the bill of President Tonini, similar to that presented at Montecitorio, before the text that they partially modified and integrated. With this text, the accounting law of 2009 is reworded in implementation of the reinforced law n. 243 of 2012, following the constitutional novel of Article 81. The first objective is to adapt the accounting procedure to the new constitutional context. The introduction of a single law, which replaces two of them, incorporating into the budget law all the provisions of the Stability Act, should serve to simplify the framework of public finance. I'm using parole, because this year the government will be passing the first new budget law and only after we can draw the consequences, all together. We will therefore assess its operation, its technicality; we will assess whether the standards now in our examination will require a possible cutting. However, we are on the road to a measure that goes to expose and make more understandable, within the two sections of the budget law, the choices of economic policy made each year by the Government, by October 20th. In fact, besides innovating in the method, there are also some novelties on the dates, in the calendar of the drafting and presentation of the documents of economy and finance by the Government to the Chambers and in Europe. There is a new deadline and a new list of economic policy instruments, which should be better suited to the new framework of constitutional rules. It is true that we try to combine the needs of the budget with the methodologies by which ISTAT communicates the Italian choices of economic policy to Europe. The Economic and Financial Document is also expected to be supplemented with more detailed information on expenditure, but it also expects a better definition of the debts of public administrations and their burden. It will also be useful to know the value of interest-related expenditure on financial derivatives, given the situations that have unfortunately occurred in recent years due to political, but also technical errors. On this subject, greater control by Parliament can only be useful and reasonable. The new fair welfare indicator (BES) also comes into play, which should be defined as better targeted policies in the social field, which increase welfare and reduce waste. In addition, the draft law we are examining eliminates the safeguard clause mechanism on taxes and excise duties (somebody said this morning at last!). It is replaced by expenditure clauses, but in our view there is no sufficient guarantee that they will not reduce the quality of services to citizens or increase their direct burden on those concerned. We have always been in favour of the identification of certain covers, through, for example, cuts to the many wastes present in that non-transparent area that is located between contracts, public tenders and politics. Just as I said, while appreciating the new form of the accounting law, we still have a number of doubts. Since the rewriting of the Constitutional Charter and the law strengthened in 2012, in fact, a different weight should have been assigned above all to the protection of the taxpayer; a protection that is lacking in the Constitution, in the law strengthened and, consequently, also in this bill. When the debate on the amendments to Article 81 was held, among the ideas put forward, it was also presented that a ceiling should be set for public expenditure in relation to gross domestic product. At that time, there were also proposals which intended to set the maximum tax burden. There was also the possibility of using debt only by using a very large majority - the two thirds of each House - which, therefore, also saw the parliamentary minorities agree in the use of the deficit. They were all indicators that gave Parliament control of public expenditure. On the other hand, the path of budgetary balance was chosen, which marked a step back from the prediction of writing in the Constitution the words: "Budget Pareggio" (Budget Pareggio). Now, on these grounds, we rewrite the accounting law without giving any protection to those who keep the country standing by paying taxes. I am thinking of the many employees who cannot escape payments thanks to the figure of the substitute tax, but also the self-employed who bear the burden of tax rules penalising them, such as the minor deductions from work, the taxes paid in advance on the alleged income and the greater red tape. I even think of companies that believe in our country, which, with state-of-the-art business processes, produce profits and pay taxes in Italy and not, perhaps, in Holland. We must point out, objectively, that in the four years of practical application of the new Article 81 of the Constitution public finances have not improved. On the contrary, their deterioration is due precisely to the excessive use of debt. The use of manoeuvres in deficit had a worse impact than that which had the infamous judgment n. 1 of 1966 of the Constitutional Court, as a result of which began the rules without cover, which gave rise to the growth of the Italian debt. The rapporteur, out of curiosity, was called Cassandro and, ironically, could not predict what damage that decision of the Council would create to public finances in the years to come. Until the mid-sixties the Italian miracle had also been based on the financial rigour of the public accounts, which in those days, almost every year, even gave us a primary surplus. Then, after many years of debt growth and economic failure, in 2012, instead of reversing the trend, debt was systematically used, first in the presence of adverse economic cycles and then, continuing even when it blew the wind into the stern, giving a positive cyclical phase to the economy. This led to the stock, which now grows every year with a historical record in negative (the last equal to 2,242 billion euros). And I would like to remember, only to leave it to the memory of the Resoconti, that the total debt amount was 1,906 billion at the end of 2011, when the last elected government, Silvio Berlusconi's, fell. The concern is that the effects on public finances will be felt when the Draghi bazooka cartridges are finished and the additional weapons of monetary policy available to the European Central Bank will probably not be used. As we said, at this moment in history, economic growth is burdened by a tax pressure that has reached unacceptable levels, precisely because the maneuvers made in debt have wrong, in our opinion, the destination of resources, have not facilitated investment and have produced an erroneous use of tax leverage. Therefore, the announcements of a reduction of one point of the first IRPEF rate, leaked by government circles, are not enough; a real and reasoned fiscal shock is needed, which at the same time allows to widen the tax base, based on a GDP that grows at a high rate. In other words, we need an important and courageous tax reduction that will trigger growth rather than curb it. If the new accounting law that carries the new budget law will serve this purpose, you will be welcome. Otherwise, we will continue to have extemporaneous measures, other bonuses of 80 or 500 euros, baby bonuses or part-time bonuses, other maneuvers without heart or courage, that Italians do not deserve and that will produce nothing good for our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u128	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u129	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2451. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group]] The draft law No 2382 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u130	The next item is the resolution on the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic in a conflict of attribution. By appeal lodged on 29 January 2016, the court of Bergamo - criminal court, has raised a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State in respect of the Senate of the Republic in relation to the resolution by which the Assembly, at its meeting of 16 September 2015, declared that the facts, the subject of criminal proceedings, for which Senator Calderoli was called to reply, concern opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, with reference to the case referred to in Article 3 of Decree-Law No 122 of 1993, converted by Law No 205 of 1993; at the same sitting the Assembly instead considered not applicable the prerogative in question to the case referred to in Article 595, third paragraph, of the Criminal Code. The application was declared admissible by the Constitutional Court by order of 18 May 2016, No 139, filed at the Registry on 10 June 2016. At its meeting on 27 July 2016, the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities gave a favourable opinion on the constitution of the Senate before the Constitutional Court in order to resist the above-mentioned conflict of attribution. One speaker per group may speak on the conclusions of the Junta for no more than ten minutes. Since no one is asking to speak, we shall proceed to the vote on the conclusions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the conclusions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in favour of the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic before the Constitutional Court in order to resist the above-mentioned conflict of attribution raised by the Bergamo Court - Criminal Debate Section. The Senate approves. The Presidency therefore intends to give a mandate, for the constitution and representation in court of the Senate, to one or more lawyers of the free forum.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u131	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2217 and 2119. The rapporteur, Senator Gatti, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u132	Mr President, representative of the Government, senators and senators, the phenomenon of illegal mediation and labour exploitation in agriculture is complex and multifaceted; it involves, according to trade union estimates and voluntary associations, about 400,000 workers in Italy, both Italian and foreign. It is widespread in all areas of the country and in sectors of agriculture very different from the point of view of profitability. The last episodes speak to us, in fact, of illicit mediation and work exploited in Tuscany in the production of Chianti. There have been cases in Bresciano, always in the production of wines. In Emilia, in addition to the phenomenon in the slaughter of meat, cases have been reported in the collection of nectar peaches. Then there are the extreme and well known situations such as those of harvesting tomatoes, vegetables and fruit in our Southern regions. The scale of the phenomenon and the conditions of extreme exploitation it entails on workers are today unacceptable and incompatible with our constitutional order. The caporalate and exploitation of labour, in agriculture and in other sectors, constitute an open violation of the articles protecting workers in Title III of Part I of the Italian Constitution: I refer to Articles 36, 37 and 38. Companies and employers who use the illicit mediation of corporals and exploit the work of those in need, are damaging to safety, freedom and human dignity, in the first place the workers themselves who are forced into degrading and intolerable living conditions. In addition, these companies carry out their activities in clear contrast to the social usefulness which, according to Article 41 of the Constitution, must always characterize the private economic initiative. They also enjoy unfair profits built on the exploitation of workers, forcing companies and honest entrepreneurs to compete downwards, who regularly take on, with negative consequences on the price, quality and health of the products themselves. It seems interesting to me, at this point, to note that the phenomenon is not only Italian. Spain, with the collection of strawberries in the province of Huelva, and France in many rural contexts are also confronted with the contrast to similar phenomena. I said that it is a multifaceted phenomenon and has different organizational structures, sometimes complex, sometimes very simple. The relationships between the players in the field are also very different and range from daily relationships of exploitation of the state of need of workers to start a work characterized by exploitation without violence and threat to, on the other hand, situations where violence and threat become explicit. Such a phenomenon in order to be addressed needs a complex intervention that includes repressive prosecution and the construction of policies of prevention and contrast. In fact, this legislative intervention on combating the phenomenon of undeclared work and the exploitation of work in agriculture is part of a framework of actions put in place by the Government in relation to an increase of the activity of supervision in the field of work and social legislation. This is an essential step. The data of the inspections in the agricultural sector in the year 2015 tell us that 8,662 companies (+59 percent compared to 2014) were inspected, were identified 6,153 irregular workers, 3,629 totally in black, found 713 episodes of caporalate. They tell us that there is full regularity only in 43% of cases, partial irregularities (grey work) in 28.8%, complete irregularities (black work) in 28 percent. Then there was the establishment of the National Labour Inspectorate which focuses on the supervision already exercised by INPS and INAIL staff, so as to avoid sequential checks on the different subjects that affect the normal functionality of the companies, optimizing resources and making them more effective. On 27 May 2016, the protocol against caporalate and labour exploitation in agriculture was signed by the Ministries of the Interior, Labour, Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies with the social partners and voluntary associations. The protocol, which will last until the end of 2017, uses the PON Legalità funds (National Operational Plans, European funds for supra-regional projects) and FAMI (Fondo Asylum Migration and Integration) tries to respond to the most urgent situations with interventions ranging, among others, from free transport agreements, the establishment of medical and health care facilities, pilot reception projects for seasonal workers using temporary state property, to the experimentation of traveling services with the presence of cultural mediators. In addition, in the plan of intervention for checks and controls will focus in the territorial areas of greater vulnerability working in concert with the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, with the Ministry of the Interior, using the competences of the State Forestry Corps and the data on farms contained in the reference databases. The protocol concerns five regions (all in the South), identified as at greater risk: it is, however, a clear signal to those who want to operate in lawlessness and speculate on the state of necessity of many immigrant workers. I now come to the merits of the bill on our examination. The government bill was presented at the beginning of 2016. For the first five articles, it intervened with amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure concerning mitigating circumstance, confiscation, arrest in flagrante, liability of the institutions, use of the resources of the Anti-treated Fund also for the offences referred to in Article 603- bis of the Criminal Code. The draft law also contained, in Article 6, a series of additions and amendments to the regulation establishing the Quality Agricultural Labour Network referred to in Decree-Law No 91 of 2014. If Articles 1 to 5 included the repressive part of the measure, Article 6 and subsequent Article 7 laid down policies to combat undeclared work and labour exploitation in agriculture, which could address urgency and direct future intervention choices. Articles 8 and 9 contained, respectively, the financial invariance clause and the entry into force. On 10 February the measure was incardinated into the Agriculture and Agri-food Production Commission, together with the text of Law No 2119, at the first signature of Senator Stefano, entitled "Norms on combating the phenomenon of caporalate". There was a discussion that saw an in-depth round of hearings, communications from ministers of agricultural food and forestry policies, justice and labour and social policies, and a series of side-by-side initiatives, including the screening of the documentary "Santi Corporali" organized by Senator Stefano. The text of the Government was adopted as the basic text. Since the beginning of the debate in the Commission, the difficulties in applying the criminal offence provided for in Article 603- bis of the Criminal Code have been evident; particularly important is the communication made by Minister Orlando on the statistical data relating to the criminal proceedings referred to in Article 603-a. The Minister spoke of only 34 registrations at the offices of the gip and eight criminal proceedings pending during the debate. Another problematic element was the difficulty, with the current definition of crime, of incriminating the employer with respect to the taking advantage of the state of need of the workers, although the indices of exploitation were attributable to the employer himself, who employs or uses the exploited workers. The experience of the five years since its introduction into the code shows that the current wording of 603 bis has proved completely inadequate to suppress the phenomenon of the exploitation of labour in agriculture. In the face of these difficulties, we have decided to rewrite the crime in order to make it applicable and to define within it a figure of autonomous crime for the employer who uses, hires or employs labor under conditions of exploitation, modulates the penalties in relation to the presence of threat and violence and making it less rigid and easier to evaluate the indices of exploitation. The inclusion of an independent person of crime for the employer has clearly reverberated on all other articles of the Government's bill relating to the criminal part. In particular, the inclusion of the direct responsibility of the company involved the application of a series of ancillary penalties, which in fact collected a lot of the amending effort that developed in the proposals submitted to the Commission, as well as a number of elements present in the bill signed by Senator Stefano, in conjunction with the government. I think it is appropriate, at this point, to describe in detail the rewriting of the crime and the other interventions on the first five articles of the government bill assumed as the basic text. Article 1 rewrites the entire article 603- bis of the penal code, which, in the current version, punishes the corporal alone and requires the organisation of work characterized by exploitation by violence or threat as a requirement of the crime. It rewrites the conduct of the intermediary and also punishes that of the employer or user, who employs the labour recruited by the intermediary and submits the workers to conditions of exploitation, even without the use of violence or threat. A specific charge is envisaged for the mediation or use of workers under conditions of exploitation, through the use of violence or threat. As a result, more gradual penalties, including financial penalties, are introduced: from one to six years is the penalty for exploitation without violence or threat; from five to eight years is the penalty for exploitation with violence or threat. I would stress that this is, on equal terms, the penalty currently provided for in Article 603-a. The self-employed person of the employer who uses, hires or employs labour in conditions of exploitation is expected, even if he does not employ it through the use of an intermediary (from one to six years for exploitation without violence or threat, from five to eight with violence or threat). They specify and simplify the indices of labour exploitation, making them more punctual. In particular, the violation of exploitation indices relating to pay and working time, when repeated and not only systematic as in the current text, is taken into account. After the rewriting of the crime, we intervened on a series of amendments to the penal code that the Government's bill presented. In particular, in the first paragraph of Article 1 of the draft law of government initiative we have redefined the attenuating. For the appeal of the attenuante, it is now necessary that the person responsible, in making statements on his knowledge, should endeavour to prevent the criminal activity from being brought to further consequences or to help the police authority or the judicial authority in the collection of decisive evidence for the detection or capture of competitors or for the seizure of the sums or other benefits transferred. The more specific definition of the conduct that gives rise to the attenuating is a direct consequence of the reformulation of the crime and its extension to the employer. In addition, the penalty reduction provided for by the mitigating circumstance is increased from half to two thirds. The reduction of up to two thirds is consistent with the reduction of the penalty envisaged in relation to other criminal cases and aims to break the criminal partnership between the corporal and the employer, rewarding those forms of collaboration with the judicial authority that allow to eradicate the phenomenon. The text before this House today refers to the rules laid down in Article 16f of Decree-Law No 8 of 15 January 1991, which provide for the revision of the judgment when the mitigating circumstances have been applied as a result of false or reluctant statements. Moreover, the application of 600-f.1 is excluded, in order to allow the application of the specific attenuator referred to in Article 603- bis.l (and therefore also of the decrease from one third to two thirds) also to competitors in the crime of illicit mediation and exploitation of work. In relation to the mandatory confiscation included in Article 1 of the Government's draft law and now contained in Article 2, we have made the following changes: that this does not affect the rights of the person offended to the refunds and compensation of the damage and that the same prediction concerns the assets of which the guilty person has the availability also indirectly or by interposed person. A new provision is then introduced in the draft government law, which now provides, in Article 3, for the judicial control of the company ordered by the judge, if the stated conditions of preemptive seizure are met, in the event that the interruption of the entrepreneurial activity can have serious and negative repercussions on the occupational levels, or compromise the economic value of the business complex. By the decree of judicial control of the company, the judge for preliminary investigations appoints one or more judicial directors, who assist the entrepreneur in the management of the company. The task of the judicial administrator will be: to monitor compliance with the rules and working conditions the violation of which is an indication of exploitation; to regularise workers who were not regularly employed at the start of the procedure; and to take measures which are also inconsistent with those proposed by the entrepreneur. In the fourth paragraph, a coordination rule is introduced for cases of seizure in cases where confiscation is permitted and in cases of confiscation ordered under the new 603- bis.2, in which the application of the regime of assets seized and confiscated to the mafia contained in the anti-mafia code referred to in Legislative Decree no. 159 of 2011. Finally, the law on the arrest in flagrante is reworded, providing it, in line with the new formulation of the crime, in cases where the illicit mediation and the exploitation of the work have been committed with violence or threat. Articles 4 and 5 of the Government's bill, now Articles 6 and 7, have not been amended by the referee commission, but above all on Article 6, in the matter of liability of the bodies, reverb the effects of the rewriting of the crime. The old Article 6 developed, together with Article 7, the part of the measure which laid down policies to combat the phenomenon of illicit mediation and the exploitation of work in agriculture. In Article 6, now Article 8, action is taken to modify and enrich the function and impact of the Quality Agricultural Work Network. The integrations are aimed at extending the scope of the subjects present both in the direction cabin that oversees the operation of the Network, and the scope of the subjects who can join the Network. The National Labour Inspectorate, ANPAL, the Revenue Agency, enter the management cabin. The aim of these insertions is to make more effective the intervention of the directing booth especially in the evaluation of applications for registration and in the ability to read at national level what happens in the agricultural sector in our country and propose appropriate interventions. In fact, the directing booth is constantly monitoring the development of the agricultural labour market on a quarterly basis also by accessing data relating to the establishment, transformation and termination of employment relationships, assessing in particular the relationship between the number of foreign workers who are employed and the number of foreign workers to whom the clearance for agricultural work has been granted from the single immigration counters. In this context, in the interests of the implementation of the Single Labour Book, the Uniemens system will be adapted to the agricultural sector, which will take effect from January 2018. This will not lead to any changes to the existing system of welfare and social security protection for agricultural workers and, at the same time, will determine the activation of the charging service by the INPS. In this way, the monthly communication system of persons employed currently in force for non-agricultural holdings is adopted, homogenizing the data and their collection times. In addition, changes and simplifications have been made to the rules defining the requirements for access to the Quality Agricultural Work Network. In particular, the application of collective agreements signed by the most representative organisations at national level has been explicitly requested among the requirements. The aim of the changes made is to make the intervention of the Network more effective and more numerous the audience of members confirming the voluntary membership. In fact, there are many problems with current legislation: in October 2015 there were only 300 farms in Italy, with a potential of 740,000, who applied to join the Quality Agricultural Work Network. With regard to the extension of the entities that can join the Network, it is emphasized the possibility to join for the single points for immigration, the local institutions, the centers for employment, the bilateral agencies constituted from the organizations of the employers and the workers in agriculture, the subjects qualified for the transport of the people and the agencies for the job referred to in article 4 of the legislative decree n. 276 of 2003, as well as the other subjects authorized to the activity of intermediation pursuant to Article 12 of the legislative decree n. 150 of 2015. It is clear that private persons authorised to transport persons and persons authorised to carry labour can comply with the requirements laid down for agricultural undertakings. The adhesion of these subjects is realized with the creation of the local nodes of the Network at the CISOA and the node becomes the most interesting point in order to analyze closely the problems of agriculture of the territory knowing them levels of mechanization, specificity and difficulties, and in order to face in experimental way utilizing good practices, for example the lists of reservation, the two main problems that must be solved in order to fight the caporalate: the agricultural placement and the transport of the workers to the workplace. As far as placement is concerned, which must be based on the National Network of Services for Labour Policies referred to in Article 1 of Legislative Decree No. 150 of 2015, knowledge regarding available labour must first of all be activated: quantity, capacity, quality, specialization, needs of the territory, characteristics of production, modernization of production systems. Then, all those who are able to broker labour legally and transparently and the local authorities must be engaged to provide the necessary support. As regards the transport of workers, the rule provides that persons authorised to transport persons, issued by the competent authorities, and in compliance with the requirements necessary for the registration of the Network, who intend to provide for the transport of agricultural workers, may enter into a special agreement with the Network. Local authorities may provide that the conclusion of the Convention is a necessary condition for access to the contributions established for the transport of agricultural workers by the same bodies. They shall determine the conditions and the amount of contributions taking into account what may be provided for in the collective agreements referred to in Article 51 of Legislative Decree No 81 of 15 June 2015 as regards the quantification and distribution of the cost of transport between undertakings and workers. Failure by the carrier to comply with the provisions of the Convention shall result in its termination and immediate forfeiture of contributions. Article 7 of the Government's draft law, now Article 9, deals with the urgency that occurs every year, in specific periods, in different territories. In fact, it provides that the state administrations directly involved in the supervision and protection of working conditions in the agricultural sector jointly prepare a plan of interventions aimed at ensuring the logistic accommodation of all workers engaged in seasonal activities of collection of agricultural products, in order to avoid the risks related to their increased influx. The plan will be the subject of agreement with the Unified Conference and will involve the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces and local administrations, as well as third sector organisations. The Commission's work has added the need for appropriate forms of collaboration with the territorial sections of the Quality Agricultural Work Network also in order to implement experimental methods of agricultural placement modulated at territorial level. The measure, although it is not composed of many articles, has been very complex: it involved three ministries - agricultural policies, justice and work - and here I would like to thank ministers Martina, Orlando and Poletti for their commitment to follow the measure. This was demonstrated by their presence in the Commission with communications on the subject which were key points of the debate. The measure, then, has significantly involved in addition to the Commission's substantive work and justice committees and I would like to thank the Commission for its work, in particular Senator Parente, rapporteur in the Commission, for the detailed opinion it has given us and for explaining it in the 9th Commission. In the same way, I would like to thank the Commission for all the justice and, in particular, Senator Lumia, rapporteur for the measure. The Justice Commission hosted me at two of its meetings where there was an in-depth discussion on the text that involved all the Groups and the opinion expressed was very much the last version of the measure. I also owe special thanks to the members of the 9th Commission, starting with the President, who, with the timely debate and the presentation of the amendments and agendas, have made an important contribution to the text with which we come to this House today. Finally, Mr President, one last thought: we are taking an important step to combat illicit mediation and the exploitation of labour. The reform of the crime of illicit mediation and exploitation is now fundamental for an adequate repression of the phenomenon and I, who are not a jurist (it will have been understood), think that the redefinition of this brings criminal law back to its main function that is to represent guarantees and protection for those who are weaker. That is why I hope that, after proper discussion, this House will vote as widely as possible on the measure and that the House will deal with it as urgently as necessary. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Misto-SI-SEL groups and Senator Bencini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u133	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u134	Mr President, as my colleagues have seen, the work done by the Committee on Agriculture has been very valuable and puts the House in the best possible position to make an important choice: to ensure that the scourge of the caporalate, the scourge of the exploitation of labour in agriculture, is finally fought effectively and decisively in our country. It is we of the Justice Commission who thank Senator Gatti for the work she has done, for the tenacity, care and study she has put into this work. Heart and mind. It's a valuable job. I would also like to thank the Government, ministers Martina, Orlando and Poletti, as well as the President-in-Office of the Council, for finally putting an end to a hypocritical attitude for which we all agree during the day to say 'no' to the head of Parliament and then to 'no' to the Chambers of Parliament's Houses. We're finally in the Chamber. Finally, there is a balanced proposal. Beware, ladies and gentlemen, the world of agriculture is not afraid of the measure under consideration, because it has understood on its skin that the relationship between legality and development is a resource, it is not a stumbling block, it does not limit production, it does not prevent the possibility of making good profits, it is not a limit to expand our precious and qualified products in the national and world market. Of course, the caporalate is no longer a scourge of some territories: even this barbaric phenomenon has - as it were - been globalized and in this sense the rapporteur has done well to indicate Regions of the Centre-North of our country that, until a few decades ago, did not know this plague, as well as other countries of Europe that confront it. That is why it is important for our Parliament to finally break the delays and proceed well. It has done a valuable job, which has finally brought us into full harmony with the protection of human rights, because the leader and exploitation of work in agriculture degrade the dignity of the person, humiliate his characteristics, even often enslave that worker, worker and child used in the fields. The caporalate, moreover, is a serious injury to our Constitution. Colleagues, think that Article 36 of our Constitution wants remuneration to be proportionate to the quantity and quality of the work done, but in this case we have no trace of that constitutional indication. Let us think of the second and third paragraphs of Article 36 of the Constitution, which govern the limits to the duration of the working day, the right to weekly rest and paid leave, very distant and completely devoid of any prospect in such a condition of exploitation. Furthermore, there are no age limits, no protection for mothers, and usually women and children receive lower wages than equal work - and again in this case in clear violation of Articles 37 and 38 of the Constitution, which refer to occupational safety, protection in the event of an accident or illness - and they will never be able to receive a pension, as is established. It has done a good job, also from the point of view of the criminal case. As the rapporteur said, there is a new wording of Article 603-bis of the penal code, which contained a completely unimplemented forecast. In fact, in order to achieve a high degree of evidence, we needed to have a series of exploitative realities that could never be connected together. Meanwhile, the caporalate and exploitation reaped victims. Today, Article 1 of the draft law under consideration rewrites Article 603- bis of the penal code, which finally redefines the conduct of the intermediary and also punishes that of the employer or user who employs labour recruited by the intermediary and submits the worker to conditions of exploitation, even without the use of violence or threats. Aggravating and also interesting mitigating factors are foreseen, because the objective is not merely punitive, but also to put the farm in a position to cooperate with the State, the police and the judiciary in particular. Of course, it must be sincere and genuine cooperation and concrete results must be obtained. 12:56 p.m. (Followed by LUMIA). In this way we separate the fate of the corporal, the exploiter and put the farm in the conditions of taking a path, accompanied, in some cases, also by the institutions of the judicial administration, to get back on the road of legality and development. [[Call the president back.]] That is why, thanks to this new criminal institution, thanks to the balanced path undertaken in the Justice Commission, in agreement with the decisions of the Agriculture Commission, the Assembly is in a position to share the text under consideration, to make it live in our country and finally to say that in agriculture legality and development must be the only dynamics able to grow our product and make it become more and more of excellence and quality also in terms of rights. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u135	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur for her very timely report, which is absolutely descriptive of the process and the result achieved in the Commission, in which I have noted a climate of particular collaborative tension, which is aimed precisely at producing good standards, of course in the context of conflicting interests. I would like to make a comment on this. Of the description of the work of the fields, so hard and so harsh, is the literature of the nineteenth century, the Verism, sometimes with oily traits, but more often with moments and pages in which the struggle for the life of the workers is described with particular harshness, especially in the countryside of the South. Two important things have happened since then. The first is Article 36 of our Constitution, which I have already heard quoted, a Constitution that puts work as the founding point of our Republic. Article 36 - I would like to remind you - states that the worker is entitled to remuneration commensurate with the quantity and quality of his work and in any case sufficient to ensure that he or she and the family have a free and dignified existence. It is written in an articulate and precise way that work is not a commodity. Work is something different: it is a piece of life of people who dedicate participation in the creation of a society to their family and to their livelihood. After this passage, however, there have been others. The Constitution has set up a series of attacks and resistances by the social partners that are not friendly with this Constitution. There was tension. Especially in the last thirty years, towards structural reforms, towards the market as a unique truth. And this type of approach has led - for example - to the enormous pressure that large-scale distribution exerts on our farms, forcing them to very low margins of profitability, to the limit of survival. This constituted, mistakenly, a sort of self-justification to return, after Article 36 of the Constitution, to working conditions that are extremely similar to those described in our literature of the nineteenth century. Return, that is, back forever. Return to men and women who can die in the fields because they work during the sundial hours under the sun, who "click" while working. It is a situation that we must reject and the draft law under consideration is an important step in that direction, so much so that it is almost unanimous in the demand from industry and trade union organizations that the measure be approved in the Senate at least before the summer break. And this has been done with real positive tension, so the Commission has come up with a text that we Commissioners have all voted for. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No, it's not. Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). A text which took into account the desire to solve the problem. It is not a perfect text, but I must admit that, unlike many, it is far ahead. In the opinion of the Italian Left, in our tension towards the objective, namely the reduction up to the elimination of the exploitation of work in agriculture, we must seek a collaboration between all the actors: producers, public controllers, associations that protect migrants - among these workers are the vast majority - and consumers, who must know that behind a package of tomatoes there is definitely sweat, but sometimes there may also be tears, humiliations, if not even the death of someone. That is why we have tabled amendments which we shall submit to the House, hoping that they will be accepted without imposing burdens on the State - God forbid! - in order to ensure that a mark is affixed to the consumer that a given product is not exploited. At the same time, in the Commission we have worked towards a balance within the management booth of the Quality Agricultural Work Network; a balance between the employers, operators and those representative of the workers, because it is essential that in what will in some way be the fulcrum of the positive part of the law - not the repressive one - there is a balance between the parties. All of this, I want to say that we must avoid ideological burdens in our discussions. The last ideology left, so strong that it has become the rank of truth, is the attachment of so much of our politics to the market. The private market does not solve everything; the market, on the contrary, can and often creates problems. In some ways, the intervention of an effective and efficient audience can play an important role. I am referring to private brokerage agencies, which have a cost in the process of 7%. I wonder: if these sums were intended for the upgrading of employment offices and their optimal, effective and efficient operation, would we not all be quieter? Wouldn't we all be more comfortable if the state were to do the necessary intermediary work to recruit those arms that are gathering on the fields? I turn this over as an element of reflection to the House. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL Group and Senator Guerra]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u137	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u138	Madam President, this is a measure which the world of agriculture has been waiting for for a long time and which has been dealt with in the Commission in a very fruitful and also important way. I say this in order to request attention from the Minister, who - at last - I see here, although unfortunately at 1 p.m. on Thursday, and therefore without the proper consideration that should be given to this type of debate. Instead, I would like to thank Deputy Minister Olivero for his commitment, as always, to the Commission with an assiduous presence. Minister, what happened a few hours ago in the Commission? I would point out that this happened not a few weeks ago, but a few hours ago. Suddenly a veil arrived, with a political address that called for the closure of the examination of the measure. We realized this immediately, because while what was stated in the press by the government was meant to describe the desire to find a broad convergence with the opposition, far beyond the political majority that supports it, precisely because of the standing and importance of the measure, we suddenly found ourselves in a sitting convened not from today to tomorrow, but from the afternoon to the evening, and with a vote that mowed all the opposition amendments. Perhaps one or two agendas have been adopted, while the amendments have all been mowed down: amendments that were born - as was also known to the Government - from the comparison with trade associations in the agricultural sector and which took into account the difficulty of a subject in which the needs of agriculture need to be addressed with labour and justice rights, as well as other complications. This attitude was politically wrong on the part of the Government and we did not share it. I say once again that a meeting of the Commission's Bureau would have sufficed to make a quick summary that would lead to unanimity for the appointment of the rapporteur. Our Group was unable to take part in the final vote in the Commission, as was the case with other opposition groups. We have stated that we would not oppose this measure, considering it important, but certainly the method used by the government is equal to the phenomenon that the measure addresses: a method of corporal. Mr. Minister, we didn't miss that you made statements the next day that I read: The Senate Agriculture Commission has concluded its work on the draft law. Minister Martina was satisfied: today's approval of our bill against the caporalate in the Senate in the Agriculture Committee was very good. Now more effort is needed. Let us approve it in this House by July. That it is your proposal for a law is written on the text, while that it should become a law passed even with the vote of opposition was a moral duty, even before political, if you really wanted to give a strong signal against the foreman. You didn't want to go this way to have the next day, to your advantage, the opportunity to communicate to the news agencies: I did, the others didn't. This is a politically and ethically wrong attitude. Let's get some credit in, too. Mr Minister, it is not enough, we need an extra effort, because otherwise we risk going, once again, to ask those who already respect the laws - that is, the honest - to respect them even more severely, neglecting the fact that the dishonest, by definition, the laws do not respect them. And I have a very simple example. We import millions of tons of products from countries far from light years from the outside markets compared to that of Italian agriculture, and not cultivated on the basis of the standards that we expect with this law, but not even the minimum standards of protection and respect for work in agriculture. On these products in this provision the Government does not fit anything. We will continue to import tomatoes from North Africa, rather than from other countries, or rice, which comes from the East: agricultural products that go to our market, products that come from the exploitation of labour. If a crime like this is to exist, it must be universal. There must be no product on our market and on the European market by exploiting the labour force, as the head of the labour market does. Otherwise, we will once again have deceived the consumer and the farmer about the fact that there is protection and guarantees, whereas in reality this will not be the case. There is still one question that has not been answered in the Commission. Is this a long-awaited measure on which the Government and the Minister have invested so much in terms of credibility? Make a decree-law, then! Why didn't you make a decree-law? To Senator Campanella, who spoke earlier, I say that the fact that he is approved at first reading in the Senate before the summer or that he is approved at first reading in the House before the summer does not matter, if the provision will not become law. It doesn't matter. If you want to do something serious, make a decree-law. Three days after this provision is law and it is converted within sixty days. We must not give a message, but we must put in place concrete actions, which are truly capable of affecting the caporalate. Once again, otherwise, there remains the disappointment of seeing a Government and a Minister who think more about working to make a certain image appear, which is far from the concreteness that would be needed. It is the Minister himself, moreover, who does not come to Parliament when there is to approve the link to agriculture, but who last week was participating in the transmission "Agorà" to make that measure the example of bicameralism that does not work. That provision has indeed passed from one House to another for a long time. Yes, but you are the majority: if you are unable to govern your amendments (the ones tabled by your senators and Members), if you do not have the determination to say that you intend to have a measure adopted, that is a political choice that has nothing to do with equal bicameralism. I repeat that today, with the Constitution in force, Minister, if you will, with a decree-law you can do what you want in three days. But this tool only applies to what interests you, because the narration given to the country speaks of a parliament that cannot work and a very efficient government that intervenes with determination. We do not need these demonstrations of rhetoric. You will now be free to do your replica and say that all this is out of all ground. We'll see about that in the next few days. I would like to re-launch a proposal made in the Commission; to hold a brief meeting between the leaders of the groups; to define points of contact and synthesis between the proposals made by the agricultural world, by Agrundo, on this measure; to seek and find in this House the broad majority who unanimously support this measure. We are willing to support it, but we want to see an effort, which cannot be merely of form, but of substance. There are three amendments tabled by the Group: analyze them, check them and ask for the convergence of all the Groups. This means doing politically serious work that looks at content and not form. You still have a way of doing it. You will be able to demonstrate next week that you will be willing to take a measure adopted unanimously by this House. [[Applause from Senators Calderoli and Zizza.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u139	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u140	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Candiani's speech seems presumptuous to me, because this measure has been widely discussed and shared. Mr Gatti and all of us have put a great deal of passion into it and we all had a great urgency to complete it. We want to reiterate this and we want it before the harvest. No more fairy tales, more stories, more movies. It may be his film, dear colleague Candiani, but it is not reality. It's pretentious, because it doesn't answer the truth. I want to stress that this regulatory intervention to counter the phenomena of the caporalate that we are approving is urgent, as it will impact strongly on the agricultural sector and the economy of the country. That's what we want. It is fair to say that serious facts of labour exploitation disturb our country. They occur in more than one sector, especially in agriculture and, in particular, with reference to agricultural harvesting, where the frequency is highest. The agricultural organizations have repeatedly highlighted also in the hearings - I have heard many of them, Senator Candiani - that the presence of black labour and of the head of agriculture constitute a very serious problem in the country, also for the agricultural enterprises that carry out with correctness the necessary obligations in the relationships of dependent work. They are competing with the undeclared farms, which operate in non-compliance, resulting in significantly lower production costs. The phenomenon affects employees, often without social security and welfare cover - as Senator Gatti has said in all her passages - and without adequate security protection. And it cannot be accepted that the issue in some territories and economic and social contexts is of public order. Businesses are not immune to the risk of real organized crime, a pervasive phenomenon that unfortunately affects many key sectors of our economy. I am also referring to the big industry. I'm from the Northeast. The Fincantieri, in the territory from which I come, has seen several times employed the Forces of the Order and the judiciary. Processes and condemnations lead to deepen the theme and to frame an environment in which the recruitment of workers takes place in a context not always foreign to camorristic infiltrations and phenomena of illegality even in the North-East, whatever the case may be. The phenomenon is widespread in many sectors and in agriculture - as has been pointed out several times - is particularly heavy and serious. It has led the Government to the preparation of a shared bill - I stress - from many parts, from the vast majority of us. It identifies contrast tools to deal with a widespread and rampant problem. There are about 1,200,000 workers in the agricultural sector in Italy, 42 percent of whom are in black. The agromafie move a round of business that, according to data ISTAT and FLAI CGIL, touches the 2.5 billion euros dizzyingly. The caporalate is part of this worrying system. Yes, it was urgent. It is interesting and comforting that the strengthening of the verification activity has led from about 5,400 investigations in 2014 to 8,600 in 2015. This government has strengthened the verification activities with an increase in interventions of as much as 60%. About 6,000 cases of irregular workers were reported, of which 3,600 were in black and about 180 outsiders without a residence permit. The irregularity rate covered more than half of the checks. This measure was, therefore, a necessary, necessary and urgent measure which was a shared synthesis thanks to the efforts and tenacity of the Commission, the rapporteur, Mrs Gatti, and the determination of the Government, which was fully available for comparison, modification and enrichment of the original text which the President of the Commission carried out with determination. The Commission's round of hearings has made clear the need to intervene on the crime referred to in Article 603 bis, which has been repeatedly mentioned here, by sanctioning the corporals, employers and companies using this method, by modulated responsibilities and rewriting the crime. The caporalate can be mentioned in a series of operations, so it is necessary to intervene with a multiplicity of contrast instruments. Not only punishment and repression, but above all control and prevention, are crucial. As stated in Senator Lumia's previous speech, it is important to help unfulfilled businesses get back on the right and right path. In addition, measures to ensure that business continuity is not interrupted are important and, where confisks are involved, the allocation of revenue to the annual anti-trafficking fund. As for the Quality Agricultural Work Network, established in Article 6 of Decree-Law No 91 of 2014 (the so-called "champolibero"), converted by Law No 116 of 2014, it is expected to publish lists of virtuous companies that voluntarily sign up to the Network. Companies admitted to the Network appear in a special list published on the INPS website - mentioned earlier by the rapporteur, Ms Gatti - and are not included in the supervisory guidelines adopted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the social security institution, which instead have to concentrate controls on companies not registered on the Network. The Network, as it is currently planned, would foster the desired intelligence in supervisory activity. Therefore, the constant monitoring of the development of the agricultural labour market, the promotion of initiatives in the field of active labour policies and the fight against undeclared work and contributory evasion, the initiatives on the organization of seasonal labour flows, the assistance of immigrant workers are measures, as well as of contrast, of civilization. The Quality Network is, therefore, an important commitment and an innovative choice to promote a correct development of the business activity: it should also intervene in experimental ways in the field of the intermediation of agricultural work, through an integrated approach, for example with the provincial commissions for the integration of the wages of agricultural workers. It is therefore important to cooperate with local authorities: a passage considered necessary for various aspects affecting the phenomenon of caporalate, including transport in agricultural areas. As I said earlier, at the beginning of the harvest season, we can today, thanks also to the availability of the Minister and the entire Executive, in synergy between the Government and Parliament, give a very important signal to the sector. The response provided by the Quality Agricultural Labour Network, to which the many companies that work positively in the legality, in compliance with the controls and rules on workers' contracts belong, must also be developed and strengthened through a greater diffusion of good practices in the territory, especially through a strong and fast deburocratization. This has also been a very strong work and commitment on the part of our Government. The commitment is therefore concentrated both on the repression of illegal conduct, which will protect and increase the turnover of agricultural enterprises that act in full legality, and - as I said - on prevention. I would like to say a few more words about the importance of the steering booth, which will have to be competent and capable of carrying out constant monitoring on the agricultural labour market and promoting initiatives in the areas of active labour policies and the fight against undeclared work. It must no longer happen in Andria, which we have examined in the Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work: I am referring to the death of the agricultural worker Mrs Paola Clemente. An alarming picture of working conditions in agriculture emerged in the Commission's own investigation, also on that occasion, in particular with regard to frequent irregular ancillary work relationships: the lack of protection measures is evident. These are working conditions - I quote from the report - which are very often mentioned in real farm exploitation. However, to conclude, by missing a good part of my speech, I would like to stress once again the importance of the result achieved, as well as the protocol which Senator Gatti mentioned earlier. I must also thank myself, even if I am simply a member of the Commission, for the enthusiasm that I have seen in all the components, both by majority and opposition, that have really given the most and have allowed to reach the broad sharing of a measure that represents a step forward of civilizations for our country and for a quality agricultural work. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u141	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruvolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u142	Madam President, my Group welcomes this measure in a very positive way. I will not go into the substance of some of the issues, which have been discussed extensively during the Commission's examination. The subject could be as follows: why do we arrive at the end of the summer with this measure? Perhaps he could have anticipated his iter. We're here now, but it's a big step forward. Certainly with the approval of the text, which will then go to the House, the problems affecting the great and complex phenomenon of exploitation and undeclared work will not be resolved from evening to morning. It is being done, but it is an extraordinary job. We are trying to stem an odious phenomenon, which is a source of infiltration, of everything and more, as my previous colleagues have said. The rapporteur has also said this vibrantly, and I thank her for her work, as I have already done in the Commission. I would like to take this opportunity to renew my thanks for the commitment that the rapporteur has made; today we have seen a very long report, heard with great interest. The experiences that have been made will also serve in the future. As far as work in the Commission is concerned, I do not agree with Mr Candiani that a decree-law should have been issued. We have held dozens of hearings and have examined the measure from all angles, at least from all those that we can see. I don't know if we've forgotten anything, but in any case it happened in good faith. And I hope that there will be conditions for improving the text that is coming to this House today. I am opposed to the use of the decree-law, because it is a complex and very delicate matter. Some articles go to burden even more the farmer and the world of agriculture. I have tried to simplify, like many others, starting with the rapporteur, but sometimes tools are needed to monitor the phenomenon well. However, I would not agree to set further requirements from the moment the measure under consideration becomes State law, because if we say that we want to simplify then we have to be consequent. For those who do not follow the agricultural sector, I would like to make one specific point: at present, farmers observe four requirements per year (the so-called quarterly reports) while, according to the draft law and the Commission, we will go on to twelve requirements: this is no small thing. We should go further and thank the government for giving us the opportunity to take something back on the subject. Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to say hello to you. I'm glad you're here on this occasion. Where possible, when it comes to agricultural matters, we would like to see it sometimes, while acknowledging that the Deputy Minister carries out his work with great care. Mine is by no means a reminder, but I would like to stress that. I would like to make some consideration because the measure could also be attributed to a sanctioning system: what are we doing with this measure? Sanctify more. In order to avoid sanctioning more, we must put farms in the right conditions. If the tax burden is the highest in Europe (if not, I would like to be denied in your reply, Minister), if the contributory pressure in Italy is the highest in Europe, I wonder how a company can compete. It is not a justification, but a natural mechanism is triggered. We must try in every way to reduce the tax burden, although I know how complex and difficult my hypothesis is, and to adjust the contribution pressure to the European average, which I believe is good and fair. We do not have to push more and more with the costs, as competitiveness is being done on this too. I am beginning to finish my speech by talking about controls, a story that is widely reported not only by me, but by many colleagues. I very much appreciate a rule that you, Minister, have set out to summarise controls on a body. As far as I am aware, Minister, there is still the old procedure: an agricultural undertaking is visited one day by the National Social Security Institute, another day by the National Institute of Accidents at Work, and then again by ASL and other bodies. Everything and more. Then with the checks, it happens to companies that have regular VAT numbers, it is brutally sanctioned on formal issues. This is a phenomenon that has been happening for a very long time now, we are not discovering it now: we have been talking about this situation for decades. On the other hand, companies for which this measure was born must be seriously affected. We must be able to identify responsibilities if there are responsibilities that go beyond form. As I said in other circumstances, for a very short time, I was chairman of an INPS provincial committee and I had organised the work in such a way that I would have the Institute inspectors report to me every Friday. Regularly they brought me notes with VAT number: those who were not registered, no one highlighted them. I am talking about it to make a contribution and not to argue, because then it happens that the phenomenon of black work explodes. I shall conclude by talking about the need for synergy with local authorities, starting with transport, which we have discussed extensively in the Commission also in the presence of the Minister, because if we allow a mass of people to be taken on private buses, then it becomes impossible to control them. Mr Minister, I hope that this measure can indeed run and be implemented immediately and that it can achieve a minimum result, that it can do, as we are doing, a battle of civilization. My group and I believe in that and we will be able, in the course of an explanation of vote, to express our support for the draft law in our examination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Fabbri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u143	Madam President, I found Senator Candiani's speech unique, not out of sterile controversy, but because if it is a recurring accusation, it is too often to use the urgent decree in relation to the issues and problems we are facing. In this case, the Government has quickly gone the opposite way, that of parliamentary involvement and therefore of all political forces, precisely on a measure that in recent years has not only made public opinion speak so much but certainly does not qualify our country and work: in this case it has not qualified the work in the agricultural sector, but, as far as the caporalate is concerned, we can say that it is a phenomenon that also concerns construction and services. As Senator Fasiolo mentioned, I speak as President of the Committee of Inquiry into accidents at work which has devoted an important part of her commitment to the issue of safety at work, in this case starting from some facts, even very sad, of the chronicle of our country, starting from the death of Mrs Paola Clemente - I remind my colleagues at the Assembly of the Senate - died last July in the fields in Puglia, in Andria, in an objectively very complicated situation, also to be able to verify the causes. The Commission not only analysed the death of Mrs Paola Clemente, carrying out a series of very successful hearings, but also tried, from that experience, to draw up a list of the issues which emerged by investigating the specific case and which we find in the provision on the head of the case. In this regard, I would like to thank Senator Gatti, with whom I have had a continuous confrontation in recent weeks. These issues are at the root of the will not only of the Government but of this Parliament and certainly of the Democratic Party to intervene on a subject that disqualifies, as we said, not only agricultural work in our country but also our country. Some issues related to training, health surveillance, accreditation of employment agencies and controls emerged from that survey. I would like to point out, for the record, that the work of our Commission did not end with the investigation of Mrs Paola Clemente, because just over two months ago the Commission itself went, with a proper inspection, to a firm of the agro bridge in which more than 100 Indian workers are employed, always in order to verify whether there are conditions of leadership in the agricultural sector, not only evidently in Puglia, but in various parts of our country. The situation that we have found, and for which we are still finishing our work of deepening and investigation, is linked to some of the issues that - I repeat - are contained in this bill. This is a very difficult situation, in which the vast majority of employees are held in conditions objectively of great exploitation, underpaid and partly in black, and reluctant to denounce the fact for the fear of losing their jobs and therefore not having the minimum conditions, not only to support themselves, but also to help their families. By the way, we are talking about a community that officially counts about 10,000-11,000 Indians, but we know from authoritative sources that there are at least 30,000, so there is behind all the issue of black work on which we intend to intervene, because the issue of security is directly related to that of undeclared work. The draft law, which, as has been well mentioned, amends Article 603 bis of the Criminal Code, intervenes on some of the considerations we have proposed as the Committee of Inquiry and which have been the subject of amendments that we have tabled and of approved agendas. Among the novelties introduced are mandatory confiscation and arrest in flagrant crime, administrative responsibility on the part of the private body, the use of the proceeds of the confisches (of course in this case related to the crime in question) assigned to the Fund for anti-trafficking measures, the modification of the possibility to join the Quality Agricultural Work Network. It is well specified that such membership is not mandatory, but of course it is optional; however it is also desirable that those who, with the conditions and characteristics that have been given to this network, should not register are clearly subject to much more precise verification. Moreover, the Quality Agricultural Work Network has already been established since 2014. I believe that the work carried out by the Commission and the Government is of great importance and civilization, because to find ourselves investigating facts that cannot be imagined that still exist in our country requires an acceleration and sharing also in the choice. I believe that what has been done and I hope not only that the House will approve the measure in a very short time, but also that the subject of the caporalate - I am not of course addressing Minister Martina - will also be extended to other areas of work, such as construction and services. The elements resulting from the work of the Commission of Inquiry were delivered this morning to the Commission, meeting in plenary session, as part of the third half-yearly report. We have already handed over the second half-yearly report to the House, which also contains the results of the work of the Commission of Inquiry, and I believe, indeed, that this draft law solves a large part of the considerations that have emerged in recent months. We will hope for some other changes, of which we will reason even later, such as a more precise coordination between the National Labour Inspectorate and the ASL, a more punctual connection of the Forces of the order engaged in the matter of control of the territory and - allow me - some changes that concern the health surveillance, especially in agriculture. What we discovered during the investigation of the death of Mrs. Paola Clemente is that in the area of health surveillance, in order to testify that she is well, a worker must present a medical certificate of good health, demonstrating that she is in the condition of being able to work in objectively complicated areas (under the sun, in summer, for several hours during the day), every two years. Clearly, we don't think this is okay. Probably if that weren't the case, even the conditions of the lady would have been verified much earlier. This is one of the issues on which we feel committed and on which we want to continue working together with the Government and our Commission in the coming months and weeks. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u144	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today, in this thriving month of July, to discuss a draft law which I, like many of us, particularly care about. The draft law to combat caporalate and black labour in agriculture, which we are debating, is of fundamental importance because the issue is no longer to be postponed. The summer of 2015 has passed to history as the one that has meant in our campaigns the heaviest budget in terms of loss of human lives. That of the caporalate is a dramatic and unfortunately ancient phenomenon, but in recent decades it has assumed new characteristics, as many laborers and many corporals are of non-Italian origin. The chronicles often report tragic episodes in the tomato fields of Puglia. Let us not forget, however, that the caporalate is not an endemic phenomenon of South Italy, but involves many other Regions: from Lombardy to Veneto, from Emilia-Romagna to Tuscany, all Italy has to deal with the dramatic condition in which tens of thousands of Italian and foreign workers live and work in our countryside. In my heart I think that in 2016 it is in no way acceptable that in our country we still die of work, fatigue, heat in the fields, which are of tomatoes, oranges or vineyards. It's not fair, it's not fair at any time, much less it can be right today. Yet, unfortunately, that is still the case. There are still those who die of work, and whether it is foreign or Italian, man or woman is not relevant at all. According to recent investigations last year the victims of the caporalate would have been at least ten, but among the four hundred thousand agricultural workers in Italy, there are more than one hundred thousand workers who are in working conditions of paraslavism and forty thousand those at risk of exploitation. Of these, 60 percent work without access to toilets or running water, and 72 percent suffer from exploitation-related diseases. All this for a figure that goes, at best, from 25 to 30 euros per day, for shifts of ten, twelve consecutive hours. I am reporting what has been said in a study based on the data of the CGIL Federation of Agro-Industrial Workers, which points out that the workers exploited by the Caporalate, in 80% of the cases are foreigners, as we know well arrived in Italy in search of luck and forced in condition of slavery to work in the camps for a few euros per hour. The study data denounces indecent working conditions in dozens of cases. In addition, the caporalate subtracts around €600 million a year from the state's coffers, while the exploited workers earn less than half of what is required by the national contract. With the money earned, then, the workers are not able to guarantee a dignified existence, nor to buy the medicines necessary to cure their own health, since those who do heavy work in the fields for more than twelve hours a day in every climate condition is obviously exposed to every type of disease and accident, diseases that would be treatable with common drugs but, if there is no money to buy them, the disorders are left out and become chronic. Unfortunately, the migratory pressure that invests our country in recent years, in combination with the economic crisis, pushes and encourages unscrupulous entrepreneurs to reduce production costs through the exploitation of cheap labour, transforming entire productive sectors and damaging the thousands of healthy and honest companies that are overwhelmed by this infamous form of unfair competition. In this context, it is organised crime that draws the greatest profits, giving rise to the phenomenon of agromafias, ready to exploit the vulnerability of migrant workers and the condition of difficulties of so many Italian workers who have remained unemployed. According to the data of the second report "Agromafie and Capolarato" of the Observatory Placido Rizzotto, the caporalate controls a round of billionaire business, spread throughout Italy. We must not forget the role of the multinationals in the agricultural processing sector, which, with the imposition of increasingly low purchase prices, force farms to produce below cost, to close down, or, at worst, to seek illegal methods to reduce production costs. The introduction of legislative changes, aimed at ensuring more effective action to combat the phenomenon, is certainly a necessary and important step, and for this commitment I thank the Government and in particular the ministers Martina, Poletti and Orlando. As I have repeatedly had the opportunity to repeat, having the honour of being a member of the Anti-Mafia Commission, we must start from the repression of the illegal accumulation of wealth by those who exploit workers, in violation of the most basic safety standards in the workplace and of the fundamental rights of the person, because it is a real mafia and criminal phenomenon that we are talking about. The amendments to the penal code which provide for a tightening up of the instruments available to the judiciary and the law enforcement agencies can only be shared, both in the case of the extension of compulsory arrest and mandatory confiscation to the crime of illicit mediation and exploitation of work, and in the case of the introduction of a mitigating circumstance for those who have effectively worked to prevent the criminal activity from leading to further consequences and to ensure the evidence of the crimes and the identification of the other perpetrators, so as to rip off the veil of omerty that we have unfortunately dealt with too many times. Equally commendable is the provision of a fund for compensation to victims of the crime of caporalate, treated as victims of trafficking, as well as the introduction of a plan of interventions for the reception of seasonal agricultural workers. The fight against mafias must be the polar star of government and parliament's action. The economic and social damage caused by organised crime must be reduced to a minimum, in order to recover as much resources as possible for the healthy and virtuous economy of this beloved country of ours. As far as the agricultural sector in particular is concerned, alongside a system of measures that punish companies that are complicit in the illicit exploitation of labour, we must concentrate all our efforts on rewarding quality production, which exploits the territories and honest entrepreneurs, who intend to operate on the ground of full compliance with the rules and who do not take advantage of workers in order to make illegal profits. A strict control of the production chain must be introduced, with checks at every stage of production, from harvesting to industrial processing to retailing. Only by guaranteeing honest entrepreneurs a fair return to their efforts will we be able to eliminate the benefits they get by using illegal forms of work. For this reason, I also welcome the introduction of ethical certification of agricultural work and the establishment of a steering booth that brings together INPS, trade unions, agricultural organisations and institutions. ISTAT's report on the structure of agricultural holdings, published last September, also confirms the importance of quality agricultural work and the social and economic value of those companies that rely on higher standards of occupational protection, showing indeed a strong growth of multifunctional ones capable of diversifying sources of income. The sales data tell us that consumers are willing to reward companies that can certify on their packages compliance with certain quality standards. I am thinking, of course, of the certification of organic and organic productions, but the reasoning could easily be extended to a certification guaranteeing respect for the most basic rights of workers. And so let's welcome the Quality Agricultural Work Network and the territorial articulations of its directing booth. I shall conclude by addressing the victims of work in the camps and their families. It is above all women who lend their bodies to this hard work and who have offered the heaviest tribute: their own lives. Then my thoughts go, one of all, to Paola Clemente, already mentioned several times in the Assembly today: 49 years, died of a heart attack in the countryside of Andria. A sad destiny that cannot be accepted in our society that wants to be at the forefront in the protection of workers and their rights. Let us proceed, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of this bill, so that the tragedy of the deaths in the fields throughout Italy disappears from the news of the newspapers and remains only a sad memory of a past that we have left behind. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u146	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Martina, Vice-Minister Olivero, I share Mr Gatti's report on the need and, in some ways, the urgency of a law to combat the caporalate, which some rightly call a scourge. This is true, especially in certain territories where, due to the leadership, the organisation of work passes through inhuman living and exploitation conditions and where organised crime also plays an important role in perpetuating such situations. I think of what happens in Calabria in the Rosarno area, with the harvest of oranges, and in Nardò, with the collection of watermelons, but above all in Rignano, with the tomato harvest, where there is a ghetto that encloses migrants and has been the subject of many international journalistic investigations, precisely because of the inhumanity of living conditions. It is a ghetto which, despite the commitment of the Puglia Region and the involvement of the Viminale, is unfortunately still there, proof of a phenomenon for which not only repressive measures are sufficient, but which has its own social roots in which the corporal plays a central role for the maintenance of that hateful system, as demonstrated by the hearings that we carried out in the Commission. The rapporteur has said well: the caporalate is not only an Italian phenomenon, but it is a mechanism that concentrates and insists in those areas where, for a whole series of historical reasons, the productions do not succeed or do not intend to make system, to create consortia, to increase their total value, even in the eyes of the transformation and distribution, and that it still leverages on the reduction of the cost of labor. For this reason I believe that the contrast to the caporalate also passes from the ability to modernize systems and production areas that have remained resoundingly behind and that they themselves fail to attribute the right value to their product: this is an aspect not to be underestimated also with respect to the proposal that we are discussing and in which there are also responsibilities on the part of the public body. We must be very good at building standards that take into account the fact that the phenomenon is confined to certain areas in order to combat it better, but also to avoid falling back on those productive systems in which phenomenon is absent (the territory from which I come is one of these) a whole series of norms and rules that, in the future, could produce a simple bureaucratic tightening up in the face of a problem that, in fact, does not exist. My colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture also know how many times I have pointed out that the agricultural sector is overwhelmed by much, too much bureaucracy. Our perplexity, already expressed with reference to previous regulatory measures, about the quality agricultural work network, rather than the direction cabin is known. Our fear that further requirements will be added for a sector that is already very overwhelmed is, of course, a well-founded concern. We have tabled many amendments in the Commission. Some have been accepted, others have been absorbed in the rapporteur's amendments, others have been rejected. In particular, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Gatti, who has done a great deal of mediation on Article 6 and has been willing to revise the entire article and also to soften it, in some respects, making it more easily applicable to us. I am also pleased that the reference to the employment matching index has been removed, which risked penalising the very efficient companies, those who knew how to optimize the use of labour. We have discussed a lot in the Commission, with a very difficult comparison, for example on the introduction of the Uniemens system, because the agricultural sector has a different situation than the other sectors. If the craft sector and the industrial sector manage to plan the production period and also have regular production, it is clear that the agricultural sector needs a lot of labour in a very limited period, and that the harvest period varies according to the climatic conditions and that there are reasons that sometimes require the advance or delay of the harvest or harvest. Therefore, it is a sector in which it is difficult to make precise forecasts and the introduction of a Uniemens system in a precise way as for the other sectors would have been a problem and I am of course pleased that our amendment has been accepted, with which the time limits for the introduction of the Uniemens system have been extended to 1 January 2018, so that we can prepare and launch the new system. We have tabled an amendment directly in this House, which I hope the Government will accept, with which we point out that, in any case, the obligation of quarterly payment of unified agricultural contributions remains in place, so as not to impose advances which may create problems for farms. We have also tabled other amendments in this House, in particular one, signed with my colleague Mr Berger, on the possibility, for the territories that can do so, of replacing the inclusion of quality agricultural work in the network with certification of processes. I realize that it is perhaps difficult to apply in other territories, but for territories where the rules are respected and where companies are used to complying with the rules, this could be an important and interesting bureaucratic simplification. I therefore call on the Government to take this amendment into account, even though it was rejected in the Commission's first examination. We have also tabled a number of amendments in this House to reduce the criminal effects of certain errors. I believe that, despite the fact that the draft law, in the course of its debate, has been lightened in its impact, the criminal impact is still very strong. We have therefore tabled a number of very specific amendments which provide that, in the case of errors made in good faith or not important, we can distinguish between serious and minor illegality. These are very specific amendments which I ask the Government to be able to examine in detail too, hoping that at least someone can be accepted. We have also tabled an amendment to clarify the position of agricultural cooperatives providing services in the Trentino and South Tyrol system where, as you know, more than 90% of agricultural production is organised into cooperatives, which sometimes also provide transport, accommodation and regularisation services. This, of course, is not the case, but the provision of services which is perfectly regular, but the amendment would have made this more clear. The draft law undoubtedly contains many positive aspects which have been mentioned by my colleagues and which I do not want to repeat. Among these, cooperation with local authorities is essential, not only for the purposes of transport conventions but also to provide services that seem to make the use of the Chapter indispensable. It is precisely the local authorities or, in any case, the working cooperatives, the realities that deal with the territory and that can replace the head of the organisation of services that are fair, regular and, above all, respectful of workers' rights. I admit that the draft law has had a complex examination because it involves areas of agriculture, work and justice; there have been many hearings, including the offices of the relevant ministers, and I believe that the Commission has done a good job. The rapporteur, Mrs Gatti, has had all the sensitivity to try not to frustrate the effectiveness of a text that wants to arrive, I do not say in a definitive way, but at least incisive at the heart of the problem and start to solve it, however, trying to take into account those who have nothing to do with the phenomenon of the caporalate and cannot be weighed down in compliance. The bill has therefore greatly improved. I hope that we are still prepared to review some particular aspects in this House, and that is why I can only thank the whole Commission, the rapporteur, Mrs Gatti, and Mr Olivero, together with all my colleagues, because she has followed all the Commission's work directly and in a very precise way. I believe that our Commission has shown that it works well together and as a system which, at times, also manages to reconcile the demands of the opposition and the majority, having as its primary interest to be able to give importance to the agricultural sector. This parliamentary term - I mean in the presence of Minister Martina - has given great attention to agriculture, as it emerged yesterday, on the occasion of the bill of European delegation, when it seemed that precisely on the labelling and recognition of Made in Italy this Government had done nothing. I believe that for some years now there has been a great deal of investment in agriculture for the enhancement and affirmation of Made in Italy and the Government should be given this particular attention. The road is still long, because it is a sector that is absolutely the most difficult and delicate, very diversified depending on the various parts of Italy, that today must fight against the fall in prices and the difficulty to be on the market for unfair competition of many markets, but I believe that what the Government and this Parliament are doing is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u150	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, today's sitting does not include closing hours, but there are some committees that have even been convened in the referee. I would like to take the example of the Justice Commission, which must even vote on an opinion on acts of the Government. It would therefore be appropriate for the Presidency to consider whether the Commission should be embarrassed by justice or appreciate the circumstances and interrupt work at 2.30 p.m. Other committees also meet, however, for hearings.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u151	Thank you, Senator Puglia. I would like to make it clear that President Grasso, in the group leaders, had pointed out the possibility that the Commissions would do so, and no one at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders had any reason to object. Anyway, thank you for the report. Senator Dalla Tor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u152	Madam President, Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to this House with an extremely important measure for the protection of thousands of workers who, on time, are exploited in the work of the camps whenever seasonal activities require more labour than the average needs that occur during the year. It is a real submerged economy that generates huge profits, distorts competition and feeds a particularly violent underworld that controls over 300,000 people. The investigations of the police forces and also the journalists have indicated that the sectors most exposed to the caporalate are agriculture and construction, but also manufacturing and tourism. Those who are most exploited are non-EU citizens, especially those without a residence permit. In this context, there are also immigrants who turn from victims into exploiters of other immigrants or make complicity with criminal organisations. The text that we will fire provides better protection for workers and identifies targeted and graduated penalties for those who put into practice the crime of caporalate. All this has been possible through the work of the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production, which has made profound and significant changes to the original text dismissed by the Government; a work that has seen majority and opposition work hard and together for a legal framework that is as accomplished as possible. In addition to the penal and sanctioning part, the bill contains a part related to policies of prevention and countering the phenomenon, with the Quality Agricultural Work Network. The Network, currently constituted only by the directing booth, is articulated in the territory involving all the subjects able to face the two problems of the caporalate: the organization of the agricultural placement and that of the transport of the workers to the workplace. This is an important step, which tries to tackle a problem, which adversely marks not only agriculture but also other sectors, and puts the quality of our products at risk. The scale of the phenomenon and the conditions of extreme exploitation it entails on workers are unacceptable and incompatible with our constitutional order. This measure has been awaited for a long time, by the social partners and from all over the country, and we hope that it can be approved with the broadest agreement. With regard to criminal matters, the entire Article 603 bis of the Criminal Code has been rewritten in the Commission, which today only punishes the corporal and requires, as a requirement of the crime, the organisation of work characterized by exploitation by violence or threat. The experience of the five years since its introduction into the code shows that the current wording of Article 603 bis is completely inadequate to suppress the phenomenon of the exploitation of labour in agriculture. The new wording rewrites the conduct of the intermediary and also punishes the individual conduct of the employer or user, who employs the labour recruited by the intermediary and submits the workers to conditions of exploitation, even without the use of violence or threats. In the event that violence or threat is used, there is a specific charge for the mediation or use of workers under conditions of exploitation: in fact, if imprisonment is established from one to six years for exploitation without violence or threat, with the presence of the same penalty goes from five to eight years. In addition, the indices of labour exploitation are clarified and simplified, making them more precise: in particular, the violation of exploitation indices relating to pay and working time is taken into account when it is repeated and not only systematic, as well as the violation of safety and hygiene rules in the workplace. Specific addicts, leading to an increase in the sentence from one third to half, are recruitment of more than three workers, the younger age of the recruited workers and exposure of workers to situations of serious danger. In contrast, Article 2 provides for mitigating measures in crimes of unlawful mediation and exploitation of work, if the person responsible proves to cooperate, or helps the police or judicial authority in the collection of decisive evidence for the identification or capture of competitors or for the seizure of sums or other benefits transferred. It also provides for the obligation to confiscate the things served or intended to commit the crime, without prejudice, in any case, to the rights of the person offended to the refunds and compensation of the damage. You can confiscate the things that are the price, the product or the profit of the crime, or, in case of impossibility, the goods of which the guilty person has the availability, even indirectly or by person, for a value corresponding to the product, price or profit. Another important novelty introduced in the Commission is the provision in criminal proceedings for unlawful mediation and exploitation of work, the possibility by the judge to arrange for judicial control of the company, if the conditions set out in the preventive seizure are met, in order not to create negative repercussions on employment levels or to compromise the economic value of the business complex. Illegal mediation and exploitation of work committed with violence or threat are finally included among the offences for which compulsory arrest is established, in cases where officers or judicial police officers have caught the person or persons in violation of criminal law. As explained above, the important points of this measure are important. I would like to thank the President of the Commission, the Commission itself, and especially the rapporteur, Mrs Gatti, for her professionalism and cooperation in the Commission. The vote on this measure is a clear contrast to a disease of the system, which creates illegal economies, hinders competition and distorts market balances. We are trying to fight definitively Italian and foreign crime, which uses irregular labour or in black, reducing it into slavery, violating human rights, distorting market balances and also harming our businesses, which instead operate in regularity. This means working to ensure the security of the country. I therefore hope that the House will vote unanimously. That would be a good page for agriculture and a good page for the country. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u153	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u154	Madam President, we are going to introduce certain rules in Italy which will, in fact, by amending existing legislation, allow us to punish in a robust way and to frame in a faster and more effective way the cases of illegal labour mediation in the agricultural sector. The measure inserts new sanctions, which see us, as 5 Star Movement, absolutely unanimous in believing that they are positive. Of course, there is one part on which the Commission had given an opinion to the Committee on Agriculture, asking for some penalties to be raised from two to six years. The Committee on Agriculture, in a somewhat salomonic way, left these penalties for one to six years, at least taking into account the maximum penalty. I am just saying this with regard to the issue of justice, which we are slightly dissatisfied with. As for the rest, I repeat, we are going to introduce rules which really want to eradicate this exploitation of work in the agricultural sector. Well, as we go through the measure, we believe that something more should have been done when we go to impose sanctions on those who exploit other people in a loving way. In addition to the penalties provided for in the criminal field, we would also have liked to strengthen the penalties in relation to the confiscation of property. In particular, we wanted rules to be introduced to confiscate the things used or intended to commit crime, things without price (i.e. the product or profit), as well as the business, commercial or agricultural branch, or the rustic fund used or intended to commit crime. Moreover, since subterfuge is often done, we asked for the same sanctions to be applied even if all this was simply leased out. This was important, also as an instrument that avoided games and that, in a sense, told these evildoers: do not allow yourself to exploit another human being, because otherwise the penalty I am going to command is really strong and I also take away the goods that you used to commit that crime. In fact, there will certainly be some of our amendments in this House and I ask the majority to regard them as proposals which have absolutely no ideological flag at all: they are common sense proposals which are also based - allow me - on experiences in the field of work and in the field of administrative work. For the moment our amendments in the Agriculture Committee have not found their favour, although - we have to tell the truth - the rapporteur has accepted a little lightly some of our ideas by bringing them together into her maxi amendment. We wanted to improve the controls and offer the bodies responsible for monitoring the instruments much more effective, in particular, by optimising the indices of employment adequacy, because we believe that today, even through the study of these indices, we can achieve the formulation of opinions by the bodies responsible for supervision and inspection, asking their inspectors to go and inspect a particular company because it does not respect certain indices of adequacy. They are like mathematical indices, a bit like sector studies, even if the latter are poorly done because they contain indices that do not frame the various territorial realities of the country and therefore we ask for a total change. Returning to the measure and to the optimization of the controls, we must also recognize that today, to date from the year 2014, the so-called network of quality agricultural work has been established. The measure makes this new institution take on a fairly important connotation. I used to listen to a colleague who said that perhaps it was better to insert another instrument that could really give a more precise indication of the organization of the agricultural work of some farms, so that the consumer was aware that, with that stamp, in a certain sense that product had some control in the various operations carried out by the company that produced that good. In fact, with this measure the Quality Agricultural Work Network assumes an even more important connotation within the control that the consumer can carry out on the product. Why is it important to take a good look at what the Quality Agricultural Work Network is today? Because in reality with the introduction of these norms we will understand whether the subject who produced that good is respecting the minimum standards. This means that the Agricultural Work Network is taking on the connotation of a quality kettle. We absolutely agree and we have tabled some of our amendments which - I remember, Madam President - always want to improve and never put a stake or a hat and an ideological flag, also because it is agricultural work which, in our opinion, is a strategic sector for Italy, as well as tourism and manufacturing are. However, we believe that more must be done to improve this important institution, which is the Quality Agricultural Work Network. Therefore, we have offered our amendments which improve the text and also delete those positions which could favour certain companies. Our amendments make sure that those within this Network and those within the direction are not in a position that can favour them. So we hope that the government, and therefore also the majority, will realize that there is this quality agricultural work network that takes on a very important role and we must ensure that the people in there do not then have a personal gain when they take on these positions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u155	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u156	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us contains provisions on combating the phenomena of undeclared work and the exploitation of work in agriculture. The Commission, too, has been working on accidents and safety at the workplace for months - as President Fabbri has just said in her speech - through inspections and hearings, on this rather widespread and growing phenomenon, according to the most recent estimates of 400,000 workers in Italy involved in exploitation. There is no doubt, therefore, that the legislator must find a solution for these phenomena of illicit mediation and exploitation of labour. It is a social scourge that sometimes remains hidden, especially among the countryside of our territory. Men and women forced to work under conditions that are not favourable to say the least, eleven or twelve hours a day, often not even regularized, at other times regularized only partially, in contempt of respect for the dignity of people and workers. It is right, and I share, therefore, the Government's objective to put an end to these unacceptable situations, but what I do not share is the desire to introduce a highly repressive system. I should like to explain more clearly: Article 1 states that it is an indication of exploitation, for which there is provision for imprisonment from one to six years, including the existence of breaches of the rules on safety and hygiene in the workplace. This case, in my opinion, is absolutely contrary to the underlying ratio, that of repressing the caporalate, because certainly you cannot include circumstances that have nothing to do with the phenomenon, with a situation that configures exploitation because it appears objectively of minor importance. Forza Italia has tabled some amendments which will shortly be examined and which, if approved by the Government, will make an important contribution to an extremely urgent law to combat such a serious and rampant phenomenon. In conclusion, therefore, without prejudice to the absolute sharing of the need to counter the phenomenon of the caporalate, it must be avoided the risk of holding all agricultural entrepreneurs responsible for illegal behaviour, in order to avoid to penalize beyond measure a driving sector for the economy of our country. [[Applause from Senator Amidei]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u157	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are beginning a very important journey into the parliamentary classrooms with the discussion of a measure that speaks of the head of the court, namely the lives of people, the dead and new slavery. I believe that never before, as in this case, parliamentarians must have an emotional, institutional and passionate tension, someone said so, because only with a strong tension can we legislate well. Some of my opposition colleagues said that formal measures were taken, but that is not true. The Commission has held a lot of hearings, public opinion is strongly involved emotionally on these issues, and we are here to solve these issues and counter the phenomenon of new slavery, because we are talking about this. This is a very important measure because it intervenes on the penal code and provides for repressive rules. I would like to say to Mr Pelino that there is a need for repression. We must take a strong stand on health and safety issues, because the new slaves work in very difficult conditions from a hygienic and healthy point of view. However, this is a measure that contains positive rules, because we need this, that is to say promotion, such as strengthening the Quality Agricultural Work Network, which was already contained in our legislation. Therefore, the rapporteur very appropriately said that the text is the result of the work of synergy between the Ministries of Justice, Labour and Social Policy and of agricultural, food and forestry policies; this is the meaning of the measure under consideration, which contains both repression and promotion, because we need this. We components of the 11th The Commission has dealt mainly with the issues relating to work, the intervention of the 5 Star Movement's colleague, and the opinion has also been unanimously voted on by the opposition and I believe that this is a very important good for the measure under discussion. Senator Gatti rightly said that the lighthouse that must induce us to legislate well must concern the ways in which the corporals are taken off the ground. There are two issues: mediation and transport, so the work we have done in the 11th The Commission has dealt with these very issues. We need a public system in synergy with the private sector, which strengthens public and private placements, in order to ensure that agricultural companies recruit large quantities of labour in short periods during the major collection campaigns, because this is the specificity of this issue. At a time when we are creating a network of substantial active policies, such as the one provided for by the jobs act, we need a unitary information system of labour policies, which also includes agricultural workers (as already provided for in the decree implementing the jobs act no. 150) and which contains, as the rapporteur recalled, the names of agricultural workers divided by territories, with personal data, contracts and professional profile. The more efficient and transparent we make the system of recruitment of workers, including agricultural work, the more we can take the lead on the corporals, and this is an issue dealt with by the measure and that we must strengthen in synergy with the legislation provided for by the jobs act. We need to keep together all the subjects who collect data, such as patrons and trade union organisations. Everyone must contribute to the creation of a network because the more data we have, the more we bring them out, the more we make possible a healthy and transparent labour mediation. The rapporteur pointed out that in the parliamentary classrooms the measure was enriched with the steering booth of the new National Agency for Active Labour Policies (ANPAL), with reference to the issues I mentioned earlier. Another important point is that concerning the Network. As we have heard in many of my colleagues' speeches, we need to encourage our accession to the Quality Agricultural Work Network, because 300 companies out of 740,000 represent a mockery of what we have to do, and with the strengthening of the Network, the measure we are discussing is intended to do just that. In the Commission, too, there has been an improvement in the text compared to which companies are to join, so the wording of the accession criteria has changed, stating that it is necessary not to have reported criminal convictions for breaches of labour and safety legislation. I believe that this is not a loosening, but an important enlargement, in order to achieve the goal that so many more companies can join the Network. There's been a lot of talk about controls. The labour inspectorate is in the network. Let us remember that the Labour Inspection Agency brings together more subjects; someone rightly did this opposition, because the controls are many and different subjects. Again, we need to create a system in which we really control those who do undeclared work and those who really are corporal and not always the usual companies, which may be much more virtuous than you might think. The last point I would like to make concerns the history of piazza pay. Mrs Fabbri recalled some investigations that the Commission has conducted on accidents at work in the Senate; we have very much reasoned on this phenomenon, which is very complicated. On the one hand, we need very strict measures, such as the suspension of authorisation for administration and mediation. I say this in no uncertain terms: if there has been a certain phenomenon, we cannot, however, demonize the administration activity which, in some respects, could certainly help us to bring out and make transparent the recruitment system. We must, however, be very strict in suspending permits for those who are wrong and for those who cause death. On the other hand, we must hope - of course, this must be left to the social partners - for regular trade union negotiations, so as to adequately absorb the unpredictable external factors that often affect the activity of the agricultural world. I think, after the law, we didn't solve the problem. I believe that we must make sure that we have allies in society and in the world of civil representation; we need society to set in motion the antibodies to counter this phenomenon. We really need a culture of work, a culture of legality and not a cover of some phenomena. The phenomenon is not easy to combat, it is not easy at all, because, as many colleagues mentioned, there are criminal organizations that do not joke, that keep entire communities, local authorities and countries under blackmail, so it is not easy. I think, however, that without shame, as we do many times in this complicated political period, having begun this itinerary in Parliament and through the proposal of this government measure, with the right tension, with the tension necessary to address these issues, we will be able to set an example so that the contrast to the caporalate can really reach the roots of our society, increasing a truly transparent working culture and countering phenomena that speak of new slavery. I believe that from today we can be an example for the country and for public opinion to achieve this goal. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u159	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u160	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u161	Madam President, I will reply very briefly also because I think this House is waiting to hear the Minister. First of all, I want to thank him for his presence and work so far. I would also like to thank all my colleagues, all the members and the Commission's group leaders. I think we're taking on a challenge. The route will not be easy, but we have accepted it and we try to move on. I agree - this will be a historic conquest - with what Senator Panizza said about the fact that, in order to combat the caporalate, we need to modernise the Italian agricultural system. I think this is one of the fundamental elements. In fact, we must start to reflect, for example, on two elements (I like to make concrete examples that are exemplifying). Is it appropriate that there are people who on days with temperatures of 40 degrees collect by hand tomatoes in exterminated fields? We have experience, in other parts of the country, of automation, of mechanization of the collection. Perhaps we must accept the challenge at this level with a campaign to update and modernise the system. Again: are we sure that in the chain, which goes from harvest to sale, there is not a way to call to responsibility also commercial companies, large distributions, asking them to make a sort of due diligence? In this connection, Mr Minister, I would like to remind you that we adopted an agenda in the Commission, which bears the signature of our Vice-President of the Senate, which is going in this direction, because we sometimes suffer, or at any rate accept, the idea of blackmailing costs. In my opinion, there is a need for proper mechanization, careful due diligence and confirmation of our traditions as a civilised people, with labour legislation. I keep saying that labour law is constitutionalised in our country. It is one of the foundations on which we have organized our society, and this calls us to an extraordinary commitment. Perhaps today we have begun to take a step; I do not think that we have solved everything, but we must realize that we can help overcome this phenomenon only by trying to think of a way of developing agriculture in this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u162	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u163	Madam President, first of all, thank you very much to all those who have contributed to the development of the work that we are presenting today in this House. I would also like to thank my Deputy Minister and the Commission, who have worked very well together on a very delicate match like this: the Agriculture Commission, the Commission for Work and the Commission for Justice. I thank all the Groups that have contributed in a proactive and active way to develop this bill that, in my opinion, constitutes a decisive step in the fight against the contrast of phenomena such as those that, in particular a year ago, we saw in some campaigns of our country, that are certainly not children of a contingency, but are rooted in the history of the Italian agricultural story, in particular of some territories. With the innovations that we propose to the attention of the Assembly through this bill, we can make a great leap in quality in the contrast, in particular, of the phenomenon of the caporalate. We know - because we have worked on it - that innovating some legal instruments has not been and is not at all simple. The debate we have had on Article 603-a has rightly been called into this House and on how to refocus the profile of the crime on account of the limitations that that article of the penal code has shown us so far, of its inability to respond to the needs that have arisen in recent years when it was a question of trying to strike the caporalate, failing precisely because of the difficulty of exercising that right. I consider the discussion that we have developed in the Commissions, including through the hearings, absolutely valuable because it is precisely thanks to this work that we have managed to perimeter the crime differently. I believe that the absolutely new fact of specifying the crime, in addition to violence, is a very important novelty. I also believe that the introduction of the employer's responsibility is a huge fact. Other than, as we have also heard in some speeches, a discounted act of bureaucratic-administrative routine. I believe that the extension, or rather, the introduction of judicial control over companies with a model that provides for the commissioner is a new point that is far from trivial and, moreover, collects a number of ideas that have been submitted to us even by those who work every day on the side of justice and more than we, probably, grasp some needs. I believe that the work done to simplify the indices of exploitation of the crime is, from this point of view too, a demonstration that the law sinks the blow compared to a scaffolding and an instrumentation that has sometimes remained on paper and that, almost never, has managed to be fully due to the fact that we have found in the territories. I would also like to claim one thing, of course with some modesty. I do not think we should miss the fact that agriculture has led this debate. I am talking about agriculture because - we have all promoted this effort - this sector has not suffered this debate. The sector - from the Ministry to the Commissions - has tried, thanks also to your collaboration, to lead this discussion. For me this is a very important fact, because until a while ago it was thought that when we were discussing head of state and illegality, in particular in the agricultural sector, the latter should defend himself from this accusation and instead should not interpret to the end the challenge of a necessary change, precisely because the vast majority of the Italian agricultural experience is made by companies that, in legality, bet on legality as an element of competitiveness, distinctiveness and founding of the agricultural enterprise. I think this challenge needs to be revived. We do not have this great issue, but we want to solve it because it is primarily the protection of the Italian agricultural experience to seek new ways of legality within an experience such as agri-food, which can only make good work one of its fundamental traits. I also believe that the new elements present in the measure, which add to the work done and which I mentioned earlier, are anything but trivial, even from the point of view of contrast. When we look for the arrest in flagrante or extend the use of compulsory confiscation, or when we place the issue of the liability of the institutions or define the possibility of the allocation of the proceeds of confiscation to the Fund for anti-trafficking measures, we are innovating an instrumentation and doing so with the maximum of the possibility that is given to us. Therefore, we innovate significantly, as well as - it is true what has been said by the rapporteur, Senator Gatti, and also in other interventions - with the measure under consideration we open a new bet also in the use of an instrument, such as the Quality Agricultural Work Network, which we implanted with Decree-Law No 91 of 2014 but which, to date, we have not yet verified in its potential. We are in the middle of a complicated, far from trivial trial, and this measure helps this experiment to make a qualitative leap on several fronts. I am thinking, in particular, of the possibility that there may be a territorial articulation of the Network. We have discussed this so many times and - fortunately - we now come to outline a mode of territorial rooting of the Network, the only way I think it can work to make this instrument payable that cannot remain solely linked to the scope of national activities. It is very good that work has been done to provide for the possibility of hiring local authorities, in particular on some fronts. They have been referred to earlier, but when we discuss the transport of workers in certain sectors and in some territories we touch, as we know, a very delicate issue of this affair. The possibility for local authorities to work on this front, by joining the Quality Agricultural Work Network, is a very important innovation for me. It is very good to have clarified the aspect of administrative sanctions. Very good to have included the requirement of compliance with national and territorial collective agreements, and very well, of course, to have profiled the enlargement of the participants of the Network, with everything that potentially can happen in virtuous territories, to which we should throw a bet because they seriously invest on this instrument to try to help make the leap in quality in contrast. I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the work carried out in parallel with Parliament's work on this measure. As was well said before, we have not only waited for the natural and necessary continuation of the parliamentary debate on this law to "attack" the node. The fact that the controls increased by 60% between 2014 and 2015 I would like not to be debriefed as a matter of fact, because also this obvious figure is not, but is the son of a precise political and institutional will of the Government, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Justice and our Ministry, thanks also to the various occasions that we have had, in the Commission and in the Chamber, to report on the issue. For me it is a very important fact to have set up the operational task forces on some priority territories, also differentiating between reality and reality and focusing on some provinces, with the work that is developing in particular thanks to the Forces of the Order, the Arm of the Carabinieri, the Forest Corps of the State and the inspectors. It is not trivial for me, and I am convinced that these task forces, as is already being demonstrated, are better entrenched in our capacity for intervention, particularly in some areas. I then think of the working protocol established, through the Ministry of the Interior, with the Ministry of Labour, with the Regions and the third sector for the experimental management of the reception of seasonal workers, for health care, for their training and inclusion. It's not gonna change everything right away, and I'm aware it's a medium-term battle, but we've set up trials. I want to claim them because they are really the fruit of common work. Everything will not be resolved by this law: it is true. But our role, our work and our task is to make good laws and, from Parliament and the Government, help to develop more and more instruments that meet the challenges we face, in the knowledge that we are talking about a very great topic that, in my opinion, goes far beyond the sector. If agricultural experience manages to innovate in terms of legality, good work, experimenting with tools that certify how good work and agricultural experience are actually united, we do a useful job not only for the most involved workers and for the most involved agricultural enterprises (this, first of all), but we mark, in an absolutely positive way, a national experience and we help to develop, in my opinion, also the responsibility that belongs to us. It is true that in this work, the thought of all of us and of those who have worked most this year to develop this possibility, as has been mentioned, goes first and foremost to those who are tragically affected by facts that none of us can forget. I am thinking, in particular, of Paola Clemente, but also of the many who, a year ago, precisely this season, were - alas - tragically affected by facts that have marked public opinion and have certainly produced a shock in us. I believe that we must think about those situations because, once again, we can say with conviction and on the basis of effective instruments: Never more situations like this! I believe that this law helps us in this respect: it will not be all, but with this measure we are taking a great step forward. So I hope so much that the House will be able to approve it, with the broadest possible consensus, in a climate of strong dialogue. I want to reiterate, even to those who are not there, that a party, a minister or only the government does its part here does not win; Parliament, the institutions and the country wins. This is a battle of all; it is not only due to this or that Minister, this or that party. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u164	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on draft law No 2217 and amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u167	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise because I find it very disconcerting that Minister Alfano, and therefore the Viminale, through the information campaign, Aware Migrants, claims to let migrants know what they actually already know, namely that by traveling at sea on dilapidated boats and crowded at an unlikely time, in the hands of unscrupulous burglars, there is the risk of life. This is indeed a great discovery of the Minister, truly worthy of an enlightened political leader. Couldn't anyone have thought of that before? If this is the great strategy of the Ministry of the Interior in the matter of immigration, we are really bad! We hope that Minister Alfano will have a more serious and more effective plan, able to respond to the needs of the many local administrators who are unfortunately the target of this ineffective policy and who, especially in some small centres, have to face an emergency that the State, unable to find solutions, dumps on the territory. I had the chance to hear Minister Alfano the other day on "Radio" myself, broadcast by Zanchini. I think it is unacceptable that a minister compares migrants to our Italians who go to the United Kingdom; even in that place he boasted that this happened just before Brexit and invited not to be scandalized if today so many migrants come in because we also go to the United Kingdom (and to that end he mentioned the pizza maker or the graduate of some important university that went to work in the United Kingdom). Minister, I know that Minister Alfano will be present today at the question time; tell him, if you see him, that these statements are unacceptable because the graduate or pizza maker who goes to the United Kingdom first does not go to sleep at the expense of the State; they are not paid and have a different lifestyle. Allow me: let us not compare Italian migrants with these migrants only because of a fact of dignity and not because of discrimination. If this is the concept that the Minister has of our Italians and migrants, alas, it is good that you change your profession.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u170	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, before the eve of the seventh anniversary of the massacre at Viareggio station, on 29 June 2016, I made a speech in this House to have our most members sign our motion to revoke the cavalry to Mauro Moretti, at the time of the facts CEO of Ferrovie dello Stato. I also wrote an open letter to all Tuscan senators, of all political forces, sure that I would not miss the sharing and subscription of my motion 1-00218, presented as early as 2014, in order to respect the pain of the family members of the massacre of Viareggio and of all the deaths on the work of the Ferrovie staff. Subsequently, on the basis of my request to revoke, the Region of Tuscany, thanks to the advisors of the 5 Star Movement, this year was approved a motion unanimously, to ask the State to do the same. In the meantime, let's say it's very serious and it pains me to report that today no signature to the Senate has been added by any new senator, from any other party. No one has signed a more than legitimate request, which is not based exclusively on the victims of the massacre of Viareggio, for which Moretti is accused - with deep sadness I remember that the cavalierate was recognized by Napolitano only eleven months after the massacre of Viareggio - but above all because of the madness of having recognized the knight of work who had left behind a trail of dead and injured unacceptable: in our motion the list is well detailed. Moretti's management was far from positive for the workers: to settle the passive budgets of the Ferrovie dello Stato group, he made heavy cuts on personnel and maintenance, he did not invest sufficiently in prevention and safety at work. The consequences were paid by ordinary citizens, passengers and railway workers (machine workers, workers, maintenance workers, etc.). More than 100 were the victims during its management, often caused by serious deficiencies and lack of investment in rail safety. So, we wonder what the merits were to reward him and call him the work knight. That's why as a senator and citizen I don't share those who listen as merchants and at the commemorations it is filled with mourning, but then in fact doesn't move a finger. Politics must give a strong signal and not just make announcements and prayers, Madam President. Otherwise, those who ask to live in a normal country will be mocked twice. Senators, how can you present yourself before the associations of the victims' family, of all the victims of Ferrovie dello Stato, if you do not have the courage of your actions? In the trial for the massacre of Viareggio, moreover, hangs a sword of Damocles: the prescription. That at least someone, publicly, would suggest to Moretti not to use the prescription. We call for a strong political act, so that full justice may be done, whatever it may be. At this point, we of the 5 Star Movement will write an open letter to President Mattarella and the Minister of Economic Development Calenda for a meeting, in the hope that this request can be accepted. We would never want to think that in this country there is the order of the expendables and that of the untouchables. I urge the family members of the victims to contact one by one the senators who have not adhered to our public request and to be told the reasons for their reluctance to sign our detailed motion. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u173	DIRINDIN (PD). Madam President, today, 28 July, is the world day against hepatitis C. Although in a Chamber unfortunately almost empty, I believe that remembering this date can make a very small contribution, to make sure that there is a little more attention than some pathologies, which are important and which are creating a great worry and risk becoming a dramatic theme, not only for our country, but also for many other countries, even rich and part of the developed world. For a few years we have had drugs, which are extremely effective for this disease - their effectiveness is certainly more than 90% of the cases treated - but which are marketed at very high prices. This means that, for the first time in countries like Italy, there is the problem of how to guarantee access to these medicines for all citizens who could benefit from it. I only remember that in Italy there are over a million patients, chronic carriers of the hepatitis C virus, and of these about 330,000 have cirrhosis. Italy has a sad record of the number of HCV positive subjects and cancer mortality. In Italy more than 20,000 people per year die from chronic liver disease, two people per hour, and in 65 percent of cases the CV is unique cause or cause of damage. As I said, there are extremely effective drugs, but they are expensive. In an attempt not to sacrifice too much of the House's time to this subject and to stress the importance of the problem, I note that the Senate of the United States of America has carried out an investigation on this subject, because the problem is very serious also for rich countries such as the United States, and concluded, at least with regard to the first drug that was placed on the market by a multinational, that the so high cost of the drug is not at all justified neither by the cost of production of the same, nor by the cost of research to get to the patent of that drug (cost that is sacrosanct and must be taken into account in these cases). Says the U.S. Senate that the price so high is linked simply to the search for maximum profit by the company, which behaves more like a speculative financial company than a company that produces drugs that can save a human life. Faced with these statements, which are now becoming commonplace in specialist literature but also in the world of communication, Italy must be able to address this issue in an appropriate way. AIFA negotiated the price of the drug at the end of 2014, a price that is very high and that we know is still secreted. The contract has already expired, but the AIFA declares that it is not able to quickly complete a new negotiation. With this speech, I would therefore like to call once again - and we did so with a first-signed motion from my colleague Maurizio Romani - for the implementation of a strategic plan by the Ministry of Health which is able to deal adequately with this issue. We wrote it last year in the law of stability, article 1, paragraph 570; this paragraph has not yet been implemented (we have recently asked for directions). We are faced with patients who, in order to be treated, must become serious and only when they are serious can they be treated. A civilized country can no longer afford it and I believe that we must be fully aware of these things. I leave a heartfelt appeal to the President and the Senate Assembly for this to become an issue on which the attention of all the decision-makers and the people is placed, so that we can deal with it, also because it is the test of what will happen when, soon, dozens of anticancer drugs come on the market at a very high cost, compared to which we cannot improvise the answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u174	We will, as Presidency, call for the implementation of the paragraph you referred to, Senator Dirindin.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u177	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, I am here to ask for the answer to my question 4-06106 concerning a very recent sentence (17 June) of the Lombardy TAR. What did the Lombardy TAR do? He was right about the companies that extract in Italy, in this case gas. These companies quite simply said: "Dear Italy, we are paying you too many royalties, we are paying you 20% more than we think were due in the last two years." They made all the technical reasoning and eventually the TAR proved him right. Now, if the MISE or the MEF do not resort to the Council of State, twenty-four municipalities and eight regions will have to return 20% of the royalties collected in the last two years. We already have a royalty regime that exempts companies from paying up to a certain franchise and, thanks to this, half of the wells do not pay anything, because they are so intelligent that they remain under the franchise. We are already exempting products obtained during production tests carried out under a research permit. So it is enough that I prolong this regime and continue to extract; with the excuse that I am in a trial regime, I pay absolutely nothing. To me it would be worth saying: of the series "corned" and "bunched." In addition to this, there is another problem, in this case absolutely objective, that is of little transparency: on the site of the National Mining Office for hydrocarbons and Georesources (UNMIG), where the official accounts relating to extractions are reported, the extracted quantities are indicated, but the distinction between gas and other hydrocarbons is not made. If this distinction is missing, we are not able to verify the royalties of gas alone, and we are not even able to have a minimum of transparency. In addition, gross extractions are indicated, not net extractions. These two objective elements make it extremely difficult to verify and counter the thesis of the oil companies. In the meantime, my appeal is to the MEF and the MISE, which are the two parties involved, to make use of the Council of State and, moreover, to ask for an answer to my question which highlights these issues. Otherwise, we will really be "corned" and "bunched."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u178	Beyond its final expression, we will request the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-670.ana.u179	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 15.11 a.m.
