ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 20 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u4	IN MAY (CoR). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 11:24 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.04 a.m. and resumed at 11.24 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u6	Let's resume our work. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (11.25 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u9	As already announced to the Groups on the short routes, at the request of the Mixed Group, today's afternoon session will begin at 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u12	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I will speak in a telegraphic way. The Senate has just passed a decree-law, on which trust has been placed, concerning the sensitive issues of justice, with a rule on which our Group has submitted a preliminary constitutionality, which has been rejected by the Assembly, in reference to the retirement age of the magistrates. We consider this rule to be clearly unconstitutional if the retirement age is extended to thirteen people. In the newspapers this morning I read that the President of the Council would undertake with the National Association of Judges to change the rule on which the Renzi Government itself issued a decree-law and placed trust. I therefore wonder whether the legislative assembly is made up of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, or the National Association of Judges and its President, Davigo. I would like to understand why we are here to vote on questions of prejudice and decree-laws on which trust is placed - making a huge force on such a delicate issue - if then today - colleagues who have read the newspapers will have learned this - on all newspapers the news is reported that the rule on retirement age will be extended to all magistrates. So, ladies and gentlemen, in a decree-law on which trust has been placed, you have voted on an inappropriate and, in our opinion, even unconstitutional rule. Can this be the case for Parliament? Where is the separation of legislative, executive and judicial powers? Even those who cannot say so, certainly agree with these remarks, which concern the fundamental order of business and democracy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u13	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00627, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators, 1-00661, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other Senators, 1-00662, tabled by Senator Barani and other Senators, 1-00663, presented by Senator Orellana and other Senators, 1-00664 (text 2), presented by Senator Bertorotta and other Senators, 1-00667, presented by Senator Petraglia and other Senators, 1-00668 (text 2), presented by Senator Finocchiaro and other Senators, and 1-00670, presented by Senator Mauro Giovanni and other Senators, on immigration matters. I call Senator Romani Paolo to explain motion 627.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u14	Madam President, the most serious defect of a politician and even of those who usually govern us is that we do not know how to look reality in the face: we should govern what exists and not what we want to exist. We too would like there to be no wars, famines and dictatorships in the world, which push millions of people to flee from their homes and nations. We also wish that migratory waves were not in the hands of despicable beings, who profit from the survival and drama of individuals, who kill and let die and who often, by chance, are linked to terrorism. We would also like the rich part of the world to welcome everyone with dignity, provide them with accommodation, food, work and knowledge, without closing them back in the lager. Unfortunately, the reality is completely different, dear Deputy Minister: let the Government take note of it and do something about it. Regardless of the political color, there are too many municipalities left alone to handle dramatic situations. Look around, if you're still capable. Go to the Italian stations in the evening, to certain neighborhoods, to the slums born around the human tragedy of these migrants, to the fields of tomato harvest and finally look at the reality in the face. On the subject of immigration it is time to take note that the conditions around us have profoundly changed. Let's not call it the most emergency: today we are in the midst of a painful and constant problem to be dealt with. And again: Today immigration is not a match to pass from hand to hand. It is a gigantic issue which calls for a radical change of pace at national level. Either we give substance to this change of pace or will end up prevailing selfishness and fears, which will bring millions more votes to populists of all kinds. We did not say these words, but Sala, mayor of the most important Italian city, of the Democratic Party, wrote them. Even the President of the Region of Sardinia, Pigliaru, who seems to be close to SEL, had to write the other day to Minister Alfano in order to avoid that a Norwegian ship landed on the Sardinian coast and asked and imposed that it be hijacked to Palermo: he did not accept that other thousand people arrived in Sardinia. In the last week 11,000 refugees arrived; a total of 157,000 against 170,000 in all of 2014. Among them there can be terrorists (no one knows), they can become cheap labor for common and organized crime; how many women will be forced to prostitute themselves? How many guys are gonna have to deal and steal? We still need to call for the failure of the EUNAVFOR Med mission... [[Brusio. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u15	Colleagues, allow Senator Paolo Romani to illustrate the motion in an appropriate tone of voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u16	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). The motions on Tuesday morning probably have little luck, due to the lack of attention and also the absence of many colleagues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're experimenting. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). We are experimenting and today we may enter the critical phase of this experiment. I was talking about the failure of the EUNAVFOR Med mission, which did not allow - indeed, it is the Government that did not allow - to enter stage 2, the final one, that is, enter the Libyan territorial waters in order to destroy there the boats that do not have to leave loaded with refugees. We know exactly where the bases are and where the dinghies are. All other countries are more active than us, as the Americans have shown by bombing Sabrata and killing more than 50 terrorists in a single bombing. General Aftar is also moving, apparently connected with the French secret services, who has gone to occupy the oil wells part of Tripolitania and no one has said anything. In the last three years you have brought one percent of the Italian population to Italy. By multiplying 160,000 by three, you reach almost 500,000 people: it is one percent of the Italian population you have imported. However, the policy of abstention, dear Undersecretary, seems to be the only one you know, as in the case of the UNESCO document. I do not know if anyone has had the expertise to read it, but those 41 points that compose it do not represent a document, a resolution: it is an anti-Sraelian and anti-Semitic manifesto and the world upside down in which, unfortunately for Italy, you still believe, it does not exist: reality will turn on you and crush you. He's probably gonna crush the whole country and all of us. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Giovanardi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u17	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Gallozzi-Mameli" of Santa Maria Capua Vetere of Caserta, who are today visiting the Senate and attending our work. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u18	I call Senator Arrigoni to explain motion No 661.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, with the 12,000 landings in the last three days, we touched on the number of 153,450 arrivals yesterday only in 2016. Not only is there an increase of 10 percent compared to the same period last year (otherwise, with the arrivals of today we will exceed the total of 2015 and still more than two months to reach the end of the year), but it is also exceeded 2014, record year, closed with 170,000 arrivals. I stress that since Renzi came to the government there have been almost half a million landings in Italy. This should not happen in a serious country that implements a policy for the management of immigrants based on legality and deterrence. Instead, it happens in our country that does exactly the opposite: it does not adequately contrast the hullers, legalizes illegality and then practices the absurd policy of open borders and the reduction of land controls. I would point out one thing: of the approximately 11,000 Pakistanis who in 2016 asked for asylum, no one entered by sea and is accounted for in that number of 153,000; this means that Europe pays Erdogan billions of money just to stop the Syrians, but not other nationalities. It is also absurd that these Pakistanis should enter Slovenia and Austria, where we do not demand the application of the first port country rule. We have a collapsed reception system, with more than 80% of those present in temporary facilities, private homes and hotels. We arrived yesterday at 166,921 migrants welcomed. This is because there is a slow evaluation of asylum applications, because there are few evaluation committees, because there are few operators within the committees and those few there are, few working full time; because there is ordinary justice that overturns the outcomes of first instance and that even recognizes the condition of economic migrant, worthy of international protection, subverting the international principles of asylum. It is the same part of the politicized judiciary that even investigates our coastguard sailors for not being able to avoid the shipwreck of the boats. It is a disaster because we welcome migrants from sub-Saharan Africa, from Central Africa, that is economic migrants, who are illegal. We are talking about Nigerians, the personalities of Gambia, Mali, Senegal, Ivory Coast, where the statistics of the Ministry of the Interior say that less than 5% obtain refugee status. It is a disaster because there is certainly a welcome business. Last year Padoan spoke of 3.3 billion money spent on reception; this year we are at over 4 billion. It is a disastrous management; there is no quick examination of the asylum application and no return. The relocation system is a failure and, indeed, we have the so-called pull factor, that is, we have many factors of attraction. The reception system, as I said before, is collapsed; almost 4 out of 5 migrants and asylum seekers are in temporary facilities. You want to close the identification and expulsion centres (CIEs), instead of increasing them, and there are few municipalities joining the network of the protection system for asylum seekers and refugees (SPRARs). Now the prefects even requisition the hotels, as happened in the Province of Verona and yesterday, with a hostel in Goro, in the province of Ferrara. The next step will be the requisition of the second houses. Finally, I would like to mention the registration of the municipal registry and the issue of identity cards, on which we have focused our motion. For a few months now, since the Government issued legislative decree n. 142 of 2015, approved by the majority in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, an asylum seeker can be enrolled in the municipal registry and can also request identity cards, with numerous duties to be borne by the municipalities, especially when phenomena of irreperibility occur. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). It is a matter of time and money for the municipalities which have to deal with this issue. It is for this reason that we have tabled this motion which commits the Government to rapidly amend this legislative decree, which presents holes and critical issues, as the Prefect Morcone, who was strangely admitted last week at the hearing of the Schengen Committee, admitted. I'm done, ma'am. I believe, however, that having only five minutes to explain a motion and only five minutes for an explanation of vote is a real clown, given that we are dealing with a very serious problem that weighs enormously in economic and social terms on our country. I'll report that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u20	I call Senator Mazzoni to explain motion No 662. I would point out that there are 8 motions on the agenda and therefore require a certain syntheticity in the illustration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u21	Madam President, I think it is legitimate for political forces and groups here to do the government process with regard to the management of immigration flows. Referring to the music by Battisti-Mogol, whose refrain recites "How can a rock stem the sea," I believe that we are faced with a phenomenon so vast and epochal that it will not be enough walls, grids, rejections to stop it. We've got to get out of here. And perhaps the process, instead of the government, should be done to the European Union, which behind the use of dozens of regulations, directives and agendas has then pragmatically married the philosophy of "each person's own affairs." As a result, the "save who can" of Eduardo's "Naples millionaire" is declined. Our motion focuses on the delays, the obvious shortcomings of the European Union in the management of migratory flows. The response was late and dates back to May 2015, with the European Agenda for Migration, which had excellent objectives: to reduce incentives for irregular migration, to save lives, to secure external borders, to ensure the implementation of the Common European Asylum System by systematically promoting the identification and collection of fingerprints, and to implement a new local migration policy. Well, more than a year after the presentation of the agenda, the balance sheet is bankrupt. In view of a number of measures taken to reduce irregular flows to and within Europe and to protect the European external borders, in particular the increase in capacity and resources available in 2015 and 2016 for Frontex's Triton and Poseidon operations, the adoption of the spot approach and the agreement with Turkey in March 2016, Italy and Greece continue to be the only possible port, and remain the only States competent to examine asylum applications, as provided for in the Dublin Regulation. The ridiculous numbers of relocation and resettlement mechanisms confirm the failure of the attempt to ensure greater and fairer sharing of flow management. And here we have another big problem, one that migration cannot be left out of control. In fact, there is an optimal rate of immigration, beyond which this process generates costs for everyone: for the countries of arrival and for the migrants themselves. The numbers, however, are ruthless. One year after the launch of the relocation project between European states, the total number of asylum seekers transferred from Italy to other countries is still at 3% of the target, i.e. 1,196 out of a total expected of 39.600. From July 12 to September 27, 2242 people moved from Greece, and just 353 from Italy. Faced with this, the proposal for a reform of the Dublin Regulation presented by the European Commission on 4 May is intended to remedy the obvious failure of the Dublin system, while maintaining the basically unchanged hierarchy of the Dublin criteria. I would call this a provocation for countries like Italy and Greece that are bearing this very heavy burden. So our motion is committed to this: raising the voice in Europe to really change the Dublin regulation. [[Applause from Senator Milo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u22	I call Senator Orellana to explain motion No 663.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u23	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, the Senate is returning today to the problem of the crisis resulting from the exponential increase in the influx of migrants fleeing from its countries of origin, which, as we know, originates from the now chronic political instability that characterizes the Mediterranean basin and the Saharan and sub-Saharan Africa. The constant conflicts have led to a very serious humanitarian crisis of enormous proportions, which has poured on the coasts of the countries of first port (in particular Greece and Italy) a constantly growing number of refugees. Indeed, according to data from the European agency Frontex, in 2014 more than 170,000 migrants entered Italy illegally, representing a 277 percent increase compared to 2013. It is a remarkable flow reconfirmed in 2015 with the entry of further 154,000 migrants. A significant proportion of the total number of irregular migrants identified in Italy and Greece are migrants of nationality who, according to Eurostat data, would still enjoy a high rate of recognition at Union level. I would also like to point out that, according to Eurostat data, in 2015 applicants for international protection in Italy were 83,540, while 64,625 in 2014 and 26,620 in 2013 (with an increase of 30% and 213 percent respectively). Although late, the European Union has, since June 2015, established that the Union's action in this emerging context should focus on three key aspects to be pursued simultaneously: relocation-re-establishment; repatriation-re-integration; cooperation with countries of origin and transit. These principles have been transposed into two Council Decisions of September 2015 introducing temporary measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of Italy and Greece, providing for a total of 160,000 people to be relocated, of which about 39.600 from Italy. However, the most recent sixth report of the European Commission of 28 September 2016 revealed a substantial failure of this mechanism for the relocation of asylum seekers between Member States, since, after about a year, only 5.651 people were relocated, of which 1,196 were from Italy, corresponding therefore to about 3% of the commitment made by the States. We do not know what to do with a Europe that promises, promises, but then does not maintain. The basis for this failure is a multiplicity of factors, such as the insufficient and limited number of formal commitments by the Member States allocated quotas for migrants (Croatia, Hungary and Slovakia have not made relocation places available), incorrect use of preferences by Member States, sometimes long time to respond to relocation requests and obstacles related to security controls, or even completely unjustified rejections. In particular, I would like to stigmatise a matter of particular gravity, namely the problematic nature of the relocation of vulnerable international protection applicants, including unaccompanied minors. The relocation plan is only one of the worrying aspects of a reversal of trend, a change of direction, which can be seen in recent acts of European origin regulating the management of migratory flows, from which emerges a total weakening of the right of asylum in Europe. In fact, we are moving towards a precarious international protection at European level, with a further burdening of obligations for the first port countries. The act I have presented is intended to provide guidance to the Government in order to reverse this trend, because I am firmly convinced that it is possible to have a different migration, based on the reduction of the number of victims, through the strengthening of the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the realization of the so-called humanitarian corridors; on the fight against trafficking, on the possibility for migrants to carry out justified secondary movements within the territory of the Union, as well as making the procedures regulating the applications for international protection more efficient and concrete. But all this is impossible if the Union does not make a concrete commitment to upholding the principles underlying Article 78 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union: solidarity, respect for human life and burden sharing. If, on the other hand, Europe loses sight of these fundamental principles, I fear that its fate is marked and I say it with great regret. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u24	I call Senator Lucidi to explain motion 664 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u25	Madam President, before explaining motion 664 (text 2) I think it is necessary to make a brief review that is always good for us: on the left they screamed for years "we welcome them all" and in fact they ran the cooperatives on the almost lucrative with full hands; on the right instead they shouted "let's push them all" and in fact we saw that they were linked to Mafia Capital and managed migrants who were more profitable than drugs and prostitution. However, there is one thing that unites right and left that is the decision on Italian military interventions around the world: there were Afghanistan, Iraq, the defeat of the Gaddafi dictatorship; now we have chaos in Syria, because we are financing Salafist Islamic groups arming them and sending them to Syria to fight against Syrians. In addition, you still agree on arms trafficking to Saudi Arabia to fight the civilian population of Yemen. Well, what we will have to do is first of all to link Italian and European Union foreign policy with everything that is happening. Our foreign policy is determining not only political migrants (i.e. asylum seekers), but also new types of migrants, for example, migrants due to hunger, economic migrants, and even environmental migrants: millions of refugees who add to the historically known refugees; people fleeing from the pollution of multinational corporations, including Italians: for example, the ENI in the Niger Delta; diamonds, coltans, monocultures in the Sahel and other places in Africa. This is what we're doing around the world. All this has enormous costs also in Italy: the reception costs us about 100 million euros every month (1.2 billion per year). And the landings are increasing: arrivals in Italy have reached 160,000 - it has already been said - and have doubled with Renzi, who has this fabulous tendency to declare that the number decreases, when instead it doubles, also in this case. Those who do not increase are the income: we are talking about 5,000 people out of 160,000 arrivals (3.5%). How are we handling this issue? We have a naval mission, EUNAVFOR Med, which is totally inadequate and inadequate, because the deaths in the Mediterranean continue to exist and have increased. The European Union has forgotten the Mediterranean because it has decided to block a course, the Balkan one, by signing with Turkey an evil and billionaire agreement. Then there's what he's not doing. We are all asking and asking this morning for the reform, the overcoming of the Dublin III system. But the packages proposed in the European Commission seem absolutely inadequate to us and are, in fact, a non-reform. In the margins of all this, despite the hearings held here in the Senate, for our citizens, for the Municipalities that are at the borders of our Italy, but that are also the European borders, there is still no compensation, which is what they asked us when they came to audition at the Senate. For these reasons, we have tabled a motion. Simply sum up the main points of the commitments to the Government. We call for a reform that eliminates the principle of the first port state; we call for a fairer distribution for all Member States, therefore the introduction of quotas for the distribution of migrants; we call for the suspension of the EUNAVFOR Med mission; we want a system of widespread reception of migrants, which does not weigh solely on certain Italian municipalities; for the evaluation of asylum seekers to be strengthened; for the dissemination of the SPRAR system, which is working, to be implemented, and for controls and forms of assistance to minors to be intensified. All this in a management as transparent as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u26	I call Senator Cervellini to explain motion No 667.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u27	Madam President, I have little time therefore to announce that I intend to hand over the full text of my speech so that it can be annexed to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u28	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u29	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). The question of immigration is one of the fundamental issues of our time, as it was - and in many ways it is still - for our country the southern question. In fact, it intersects the modes of declination of human coexistence, redesigns geographical and political boundaries, crosses physical and cultural barriers, accentuates the differences and then cancels the diversity to remind us that we are all citizens of the world. In the immigration game we play our own identity as citizens and the true meaning we give to the words: inclusion, integration, right to have rights. The game is in full swing, because the challenge is at the same time at the international, national and proximity level, in our territories. That is why our motion is ambitious and engages the Government on a plurality of fronts, starting with the European Union and beyond its borders. The issue of asylum, a right of European asylum, must return to the centre of the European debate, re-launching the need to abolish the Dublin III Regulation and the redistribution quotas for asylum seekers, who do not take account of extended family ties, promoting the immediate opening of humanitarian corridors and residence permits for those fleeing persecution and war; putting in place initiatives to speed up regularisation and stop rejections towards countries of origin. There are many agreements with specific countries, such as Turkey, which should be changed; those with governments that do not respect human rights are intolerable. That is also why we are calling for reception to be a direct prerequisite for the participation of States in the European Union. We need a national plan of reception, able to enhance the economic and social impact of migrants; an organic law on the right of asylum and a constant monitoring of its implementation; the reorganization of the forms of reception, in synergy with local authorities and voluntary associations, to arrive at the definitive closure of the identification and expulsion centers and macro-structures such as the CARA of Mineo and Bari, where shameful pages have been written that - as the Italian Left-SEL - we have always denounced. I myself tabled a question last February about Casale San Nicola's CARA in Rome. This is an extraordinary experience of young immigrants who, because of the responsibility of four warriors, pull the state back. Shameful! Our goal must be one of all: the full integration of immigrants into the community, through training, work, cultural mediation, dignified living conditions. We confirmed this concretely in Rome with initiatives of solidarity for migrants of the former Baobab centre. A shared strategy by all institutions is urgently needed to find solutions for the many men, women and children fleeing violence and war. Each of us, humanly, has a horror of human trafficking, slavery, violence against women and the massacres of the sea and hopes for an immediate end. For this reason, our response to the construction of barbed wire walls and barriers must be the commitment to start integrated reception projects not only aimed at immediate assistance, but at the social and economic integration of the applicants, in order to allow a reconquest of independence according to personalized paths. Finally, we need a battle of cultural information about the truth against lies and clichés. And I use in this regard the considerations put in black by Emma Bonino - I do not remember here the skills and wisdom of the character, who was Vice President of the Senate, European Parliamentary and Minister - who published in a prontuary many points of which I want to quickly remember only a few, the most important, which constitute absolutely false commonplaces. "We are facing an invasion": it is not true, on the contrary, of more than 510 million European citizens, very few (about 35 million) are immigrants, who represent a very low percentage. Paradoxically, the countries most opposed are those that have the least. There is no work for Italians either. We cannot therefore accept them: another false, because the immigrants present cover the jobs rejected, in very high percentage, by Italians, especially in the fields of care for people, construction and agriculture, in which instead, we find phenomena of real slavery. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Others are falsehoods, such as money given to immigrants, the famous 35 euros a day, which then, in the chatter on the buses, become 150, 300. Only 2.5 euros on average go to immigrants; the others, of course, go to the structures of the state and to the associations involved in this field. The first thing to do, therefore, is a campaign to fight falsehoods and lies, as well as a concrete commitment on a legislative initiative corresponding to a historical story of our country and the world. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u30	I call Senator Finocchiaro to explain motion 668 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u31	Madam President, I should like to make a very brief premise. From the whole debate that has taken place so far, and all the more so since the reading of the many motions presented, I think I can appreciate a political fact, which I find quite frankly comforting - and I believe that the work of the 1st Commission has contributed to it - that is, an overall maturity in the evaluation of the phenomenon. When the emphasis on immigration is seen as an emerging factor, there is a growing awareness in the Parliament of the Republic that it is faced with a global phenomenon, destined to last over time, fuelled by facts and demographic factors that certainly put into crisis a concept that has been fundamental to the development of national and European legislation, namely the distinction between migrants fleeing from hunger, drought and poverty and migrants who, on the other hand, have all the conditions to be considered holders of the right to asylum or, in any case, international protection. There is also a growing awareness that, in the face of demographic growth, impoverishment in terms of Europe's population will need, in the coming decades, to have, in the face of the ageing population, the opportunity to take advantage of the work of people from other parts of the world. More generally, as is said in so many motions, the question of a new balance arises. We have decided to structure the commitments of our act towards the Government in a sufficiently concise and oriented manner to what seems to be the main issue today, namely, first and foremost, a European issue. There is no doubt that the phenomenon of migration, which has impacted so violently on national systems, has impacted with equal force, multiplied by the political conditions of the individual European countries, with a disrupting capacity on which Mr Mazzoni spoke. For those who are attentive to the issues that concern - for example - the implementation of the European agenda, the fact that frankly we appreciate more is, on the one hand, a legislative and regulatory effort of the European Union, which is reflected in a number of regulatory acts, including micro-sectors. However, in the face of the massive flow of new regulation, in the behaviour of individual States, all this appears to be a formal action which fails to grasp the nature and quality of the phenomenon, but also the response. The reaction of the walls and grids, about which Senator Mazzoni spoke, as well as being completely useless, is the most disturbing emblem of a Europe that fails exactly on that plane of the unity of values and ends on which it was designed and built. The dry commitments - in our opinion - among the many issues to be addressed (many of which have been collected in the motions of the other groups) take the measures that the Government must take at this particularly difficult time for Europe on migration issues. First of all, there is the overcoming of the Dublin Agreement, which other Members spoke of, which is a precondition for the balanced management of migratory flows and, at the same time, a balanced assurance of the quality of the rights of those who come to our country from Africa and the Middle East. Therefore, the new common asylum system must be read with the need to pre-empt the process of revising the Dublin Regulation on the basis of the principles of shared responsibility and solidarity of the Treaties. The next two points look at what has been a positive and very interesting introduction of the topic by the Italian Government, with the informal letter dealing with the so-called migration compact. These are essential issues, which require particular attention in their implementation. It is true that the Commission is taking action in the packaging of the chips that concern the countries of origin of the migratory flows, to which partnership agreements and forms of financing by the European countries could be reserved. However, I do not think it is unnecessary - indeed, it is absolutely necessary - to point out at this time that any economic partnership agreement and any form of financing cannot fail to establish certain preconditions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Finocchiaro, I invite you to conclude. FINOCCHIAR (PD). I'm almost done, Madam President. The first is the impact of these agreements and forms of financing on the public debt of those countries. The second is the consequences of Europe's successive debt claims towards them in terms of reducing the quantity and quality of life, especially in the particularly disadvantaged sectors of the countries to which aid is initially directed. A second aspect is the quality of democracy and guarantee of the rights offered by the countries to which contributions and forms of financing are allocated, with particular attention to particularly serious and widespread phenomena such as corruption that unfortunately characterize the governments of some of them. Finally, I should like to add very little more. I do not think there can be any policy of aid towards countries from which the migratory flow comes that sees an exclusive relationship with governments and does not involve the forces, even critical, of civil society. I believe that this is essential for the success of this long-term effort. Finally, I should like to add the other points, which I would just like to mention. This motion agrees with those tabled by other colleagues on the need to develop a new European policy on legal migration, reviewing the directive on entry and residence for work reasons and on the need to step up the fight against irregular migration and trafficking in human beings. I would like to stress here that the continued existence of the rule on the penalisation of irregular entry into the territory of the State continues to seriously hinder the processes of combating trafficking in human beings. In this case, in fact, the subjects witnesses of the fact, that is those who were on the boat, that is the instrument for realizing the traffic of human beings, must be felt as co-defendants of crimes connected, with everything that follows in terms of weight in terms of procedure and the acquisition of a genuine proof. Another issue to which the Government must pay particular attention is that of unaccompanied minors. At the same time, we need a European integration plan that combines the need to develop a system of rules for the full security of citizens with the assurance of peaceful civil coexistence and compliance with laws. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u32	I call Senator Mauro Giovanni to explain motion 670.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u33	Madam President, we have felt the need to table a motion based on two different elements. With regard to the first aspect, on the various occasions when immigration was discussed, we were impressed by the Government's statements and attitude, aimed at looking at the countries of origin to solve the problem. Even the first-signed motion of Senator Finocchiaro echoes this reasoning. However, we wanted to assume the responsibility to go specifically, proposing to the Government a more comprehensive and strategic view of a phenomenon that, according to data provided by the European Community, in 2017 will invest another 3 million units. How do a government and a country like ours deal with a phenomenon of this size that first invests us with an attitude, towards the European community, that we feel absolutely wrong because it is of an economic compensation nature? No, Madam President, it is absolutely wrong to take such an attitude with regard to data that tell us exactly what the scale of the phenomenon is: over 50% of the people arriving are economic immigrants. We can't solve the problem. Europe gives the impression that it is a boxer playing when it gives Turkey EUR 3 billion in order not to get refugees to Europe, or when it erects the walls or the opposite is very pitiful. We need an attitude that is economic-social. We prepare immigration offices in the countries of origin. Among other things, Senegal and Nigeria are the countries from which the largest number of immigrants leave. We face the problem as if it were our home, preparing the tools we have tested in our home. I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, only in 2016, there were 3,500 dead, that is people who have not completed their journey of hope and in these hours, while we are talking, in front of the sea of Ragusa other bodies are recovered in a truly tragic situation. Why not set up the instruments we know as civilizations, as a European people, in relation to phenomena of this kind? We should not only know the opportunities offered by Europe, and therefore the needs of jobs, but we should also respond to the needs of those who need to emigrate by giving them all the useful assistance through an immigration office at the starting points, able to give the exact information on where they can find certain answers and that minimum of training, even of a linguistic nature, in order to be able to arrive from men with dignity. And that is the term used in these cases. We need a proper moral response from our government. We want, and I say this to the representative of the Government present in this House, to change our attitude first and foremost. You have missed the opportunity to be leaders, to be those who proposed solutions to the problem to Europe. You go to Europe only to ask to be able to pass the zero comma budget, because of the expenditure we have. Yes, that's one aspect of the problem, but it's not the most important. A country like ours should take responsibility for offering solutions to Europe, on which then it should call European solidarity. That is why, Mr President, we ask the Government to read our motion carefully. We believe that, in doing so, we offer an objective and factual contribution to a phenomenon that will otherwise really dominate us and not as a political class, but as men of our country. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u34	As you are not included in the debate, I have the floor to speak to the representative of the Government, to whom I would ask him to give an opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u35	Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking all the groups which have formulated and proposed motions on this subject for their contribution. The political proposals put forward, aimed at governing such a complex process, sometimes dramatic and so topical, will further enrich the government's action and develop a new culture capable of nourishing new political visions that Europe must be able to pronounce. And I say this also when the contribution offered translates into proposals of commitment to which I will pronounce a contrary position by the Government. As is well known, the Italian Government has addressed the issue of migratory flows, which with different characteristics and trends has affected our country in the last three years, always trying to combine the demands deriving from international law, Community legislation and the Constitution that require to offer reception, with those expressed by the national community, that warns in the migratory pressure a threat to its own security and a snare to its own identity. Once again, we affirm as a priority the protection of rights and security for Italian citizens and the action aimed at demanding, on the part of the guests, compliance with our rules. We are convinced that the path taken is the only one capable of bringing these demands together, investing in integration and inclusion policies and preserving the sacred security expectations expressed by Italian citizens. We have done so much in the face of the greatest migratory wave that Italy has ever suffered: with the extraordinary and fruitful experience of Mare nostrum we have managed to make our request that the European Union should go to sea and guard the Mediterranean border. Precisely because of the initiative and capacity that our country has shown in the management of that extraordinary humanitarian emergency, the various actions and operations that the European Union has proposed through the Frontex agency have developed. I am referring to the largest external border control operation put in place by the European Union and carried out by this agency, which has the main objective of combating irregular immigration and trafficking in human beings. The Italian vision of a European dimension in the management of migration was then taken over by the so-called Juncker agenda, adopted following an extraordinary council of European Heads of State and Government, requested and obtained precisely by the Italian Government. The European Commission's communication, which goes under the name of the Juncker agenda, is a major document, although, as everyone knows, some of its points are still affected by the constraints and brakes imposed by national logics. There is no doubt, however, that this is a clear step forward and, above all, a take-up of the profound change in the reality of migration, which took place not because of contingent facts and transitory and reversible elements, but because of the action of fundamental factors, structural, historical and social, which call into question the very origins of the phenomenon and which challenge the West and Europe in a way that had never been so radical and dramatic. The implementation of this plan requires the solidity and interconnection of the two pillars of this new policy: the relocation of migrants who are entitled to remain in Europe and the repatriation of those who are not entitled to it. The link between these two foundations is represented by hotspots, to whose creation Italy joined with commitment and determination, even coming to propose the creation of floating hotspots or hotspots in the countries from which flows originate. The European Commission has expressed strong appreciation for Italy's efforts to activate these structures, for the extraordinary first reception activity that has been guaranteed and for the compliance with the European provisions on photosigning, in compliance with the obligation to feed the Eurodac system. Within the framework of the actions imposed by the European plan, the Italian Government has achieved a decided strengthening of the procedures for examining applications for international protection, also aimed at their speedier treatment. It should not be forgotten that Italy has made its own assessments of the proposed reform of the Dublin system. And our proposal has been officially signalled to the European Commission, thereby expressing our well-founded reservations about maintaining responsibility for the Member State of first entry and at the same time stressing the need to give more space to the principle of solidarity. In view of the nationalistic regurgitations that have often led to the inconclusion of the European tables, Italy has taken clear positions and expressed constructive positions. As has been pointed out in the various speeches and, last but not least, by President Finocchiaro, also because of the fruitful contribution that that Commission has made by deepening the fundamental characteristics of the problem, the three guidelines must be managed so that we can invest in Africa, solve crises such as the Syrian crisis and complex political situations such as the Libyan one and can share the management of migratory flows at European level, avoiding the burden on individual Member States, especially those which are external borders of the Union. This policy - as is well known - has been summarized in the migration compact, which is the Italian proposal diffused in the European context that has fueled a positive debate and marked some first results, despite many difficulties. A step forward in Europe was taken with the recent approval of the first project for Africa that explicitly takes up the migration compact. However, greater commitment and determination are needed if we are to save Africa from emigration and further impoverishment and Europe from fear. For its part, Italy continues successfully in its negotiating activity to strengthen cooperation with the countries of the sub-Saharan area. Italy can be the engine of a European strategy on migration, strong of a recognized commitment in rescues at sea, in the reception of many people in difficulty and in the construction of a model of integration between cultures. In line with this commitment, national governance of the management of migration is also a constant commitment to the fight against criminal organisations dedicated to the exploitation of migrants and to the valorisation of all the positive experiences achieved by civil society. We express a very positive opinion on projects that are being carried out in a substantial way and that see directly engaged actors in the direct expression of civil society. I am referring to the humanitarian corridors and their extraordinary value of good practice and also to the ability to activate new energies and innovative visions in addressing this issue. The strengthening of the partnership with the world of local autonomy, introduced with the agreement between the State, Regions and local authorities in July 2014, for the sustainable distribution of migrants is the basis of the government's choice to gradually abandon approaches of an emerging nature in order to facilitate the construction of a real national infrastructure of the reception in full harmony with the ANCI, and therefore with all the municipalities, acting so that the involvement of the 8,000 Italian municipalities is full and conscious. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I am now expressing my views on motions in relation to individual commitments. With regard to motion 627 tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, the opinion is opposed to the first commitment. On the second commitment, the opinion was in favour, provided that it was reworded in the following words: To contribute to the definition within the European Union of urgent measures for the more effective management of migratory flows, including through the establishment of Assistance Centres in North Africa to provide in those places, in full respect of human rights and in close cooperation with the International Organisation for Migration, support and guidance of migrants and assisted voluntary returns; The opinion was in favour of the third and fourth commitments. On the fifth commitment, the opinion is in favour, provided that the words "confirming the crime of illegal immigration" are expunged, similar to what already happens in other European countries, and "confirming the crime of illegal immigration."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u36	Does the fight against trafficking in human beings continue to be enhanced? Mr Bubbico, Deputy Minister for the Interior. Yes, the text would read as follows: "to take measures to enhance the fight against trafficking in human beings." I am opposed to the sixth and seventh commitments. On the eighth commitment I give a favourable opinion on the condition that the word "restore" is replaced by the word "maintain" and that the period from the words "even considering the selection of flows" is excluded until the end. On the ninth commitment, the opinion was favourable provided that it was reworded as follows: It considers whether Italy, as a Member State, should submit to the World Health Organization the possibility of revising the International Health Regulation if the need arises. With regard to motion No 661, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, the opinion is opposed to all points. However, if there were a willingness on the part of the proposers to review the commitments they are asking for in relation to the application of the existing rules, which are also used to counter the phenomenon of illegality and of space for organised crime through the illegalisation of immigrants, the opinion can be revised. In essence, the registration to the registry can be managed with paths more appropriate than the cases dealt with and the identity document can be made effective for a time compatible with those proper to the evaluation of the requests for international protection.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u37	Mr. Deputy Minister, these concepts are distributed in the various points and, therefore, the whole device should be reworded. In the state, the opinion on the two motions is opposed. I immediately ask Senator Paolo Romani if he accepts the proposals for rewording to motion 627.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u38	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u39	The Government's opinion therefore remains opposed. I ask Senator Arrigoni if he accepts the proposals for rewording motion 661.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u40	Madam President, I cannot understand the reflection on the clandestineness made by Deputy Minister Bubbico on points that touch on the issue of the registration of the municipal registry and the subsequent issue of the identity card. Beyond any further clarification, I absolutely reject this pseudo-reformulation because, in fact, it was not there. We have a problem. Do we or do we not want to free the municipalities from the new task, as Prefect Morcone pointed out last week? If the Government's response is negative, that means it puts a further burden on municipal administrations and mayors. And of this we, as a North League Group, take note. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u41	The Government's opinion is therefore also opposed to this motion. He asked for further clarification from the government representative. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u42	Madam President, the opinion on the two previous motions is opposed by an assessment which is within the current system and which has guided Parliament, in the adoption of the so-called Bossi-Fini law, to define ways for immigrants present in Italy to be identified and recognizable. For this reason, that law provides for the issue of an identity document and the registration in the register of municipalities in which immigrants are present. [[Applause from Senators Collina and Dalla Zuanna]] . With regard to charges, the problem is of a different nature and there is no doubt that it will be resolved, but for the time being the opinion remains negative. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the representative of the Government to speak on motion 662. Mr Bubbico, Deputy Minister for the Interior. I am in favour of the first six commitments. On the seventh commitment, the opinion is in favour, provided that the words are replaced: "to reduce to 30 days by law, or in any case in periods more limited than the current periods" with the following: "to assess the appropriateness of taking measures also to reduce". On the eighth commitment, the opinion was favourable provided that it was reworded as follows: To promote initiatives for a balanced distribution of migrants by class, distributing with homogeneity the flows of registrations, in compliance with the provisions of Article 45 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 399 of 1999... On the ninth point, the opinion is in favour, provided that it is reworded in the beginning by including the following words: "To assess the possibility, compatible with the peculiarities of the Italian legal order to use. .." The opinion was in favour of the 10th and 11th commitments. On the twelfth commitment, the opinion was in favour if the following words were inserted at the beginning: "to consider whether to abolish..." On the thirteenth commitment, the opinion is in favour, provided that the word "verify" is replaced by the word "promote" ("promote"). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I ask Senator Mazzoni if he accepts the government's proposals for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u43	Yes, Madam President, we accept the proposal for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u44	As regards motion No 663, I welcome the first, second and third commitments. On the fourth commitment, I give a favourable opinion, provided that the words "including by the full application of Article 17 of Regulation (EU) No 604/2013' are replaced by the following: "by the full application of the safeguard clauses of Regulation (EU) No 604/2013'. As regards the fifth commitment, I support points (a), (c), (e), (f) and (g) while the opinion is opposed to points (b) and (d). Finally, the opinion is in favour of the sixth and ninth commitments, while it is against the seventh and eighth commitments of the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u45	Senator Orellana, do you accept the government's proposal for reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u46	Madam President, I welcome the proposal for rewording the fourth commitment and accept that points (b) and (d) of the motion should be deleted from point 5 of the motion. With regard to the seventh and eighth commitments on which the Government has expressed the opposite view, I would ask the Presidency to be able to proceed to the vote by separate parties, putting me back to the assessment of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u47	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u48	I would ask the government representative to give a ruling on the next motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u49	Turning to motion 664 (text 2), I am in favour of the first, second, fourth, fifth, seventh, eighth and ninth commitments, while the opinion is against the commitments referred to in points 3), 6 and 10.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u50	Senator Lucidi, do you accept the government's proposal for reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u51	Madam President, on behalf of Senator Bertorotta (first signatory of the motion, who is not present here today), we also welcome the proposal to reform the motion. However, I would like to ask the Government a question: how has the matter been put by the Deputy Minister, is there any intention of having all motions voted for separate parts? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Lucidi, if he accepts the proposal for reformulation, it means that he agrees to expunge points 3), 6 and 10 from the text of the motion. In fact, we would prefer to vote separately, so that we can have the points that the Government has considered positively and possibly see rejected those on which the Government has expressed itself in the opposite direction. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency will put back the decision on the split vote to the Assembly at a later stage of procedure. Deputy Minister Bubbico, continue with the expression of opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u52	Madam President, as far as motion No 667 is concerned, first signed by Senator Petraglia, I am in favour of point 1 of point A, provided that it is reworded as follows: To put the issue of asylum and refugees at the heart of the European debate, re-launching the need to amend the Dublin III Regulation with a view to fair and sustainable redistribution of reception among Member States. I am in favour of point 2 of point A. I am in favour of point 3 of point A if you say: 'I would like to put the proposal for a reform of the European Commission to that effect'. Again with reference to point A), I am in favour of points 6 and 14, while the opinion is against the remaining points. With reference to point B), I am opposed to points 1 and 6, while the opinion is in favour of points 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 8. Again, in point B, I am in favour of point 9, when it comes to the following period: the inclusion of "social clauses" by prefectures as contracting entities, in order to ensure the continuity of employment of these operators in the course of the turnover of contractors. I give a favourable opinion on point 10 of point B) if the period from the words is exceeded: 'that effective action programmes on certain axes of intervention' to the words: 'Council of Ministers'. The opinion on point 11) of point B is in favour. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u53	Colleagues, we're doing a bit of a complicated job, so I'm asking you to be quieter.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u54	Go ahead, Deputy Minister Bubbico. Mr Bubbico, Deputy Minister for the Interior. I give a favourable opinion on point 12 of point B) if the words "to assess the opportunity to promote..." are pre-conditioned to the proposed text and the period that it says: "the progressive transfer of skills to local authorities for the renewal of residence permits and for obtaining a residence card, providing adequate resources for this purpose." The opinion is opposed to points 13 and 14 of point B, whereas it is in favour of point 15). I am in favour of motion 668, first signed by Senator Finocchiaro, and against motion 670, first signed by Senator Giovanni Mauro.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u55	Senator Cervellini, do you accept the proposals made by Deputy Minister Bubbico on motion 667?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u56	No, Madam President, that kind of rewording is not acceptable, otherwise there would be parts that would be deleted. We will also ask for a split vote, confident that there will be a vote of support on the parties that have received a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u59	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, in view of the time taken to give consistency to the debate, I was wondering whether we should postpone the explanations of vote to the resumption of the House's work, scheduled for 5.30 p.m., as the backdrop of this sitting, before moving on to the other motions. But this must be established in order to avoid misunderstandings on the agenda. I say this because, as this sitting is due to be closed at 13:00, explanations of vote should still be interrupted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u60	Senator Gasparri, as you said, in the afternoon another session is convened with another agenda, which will have to be supplemented with the follow-up to the examination of these motions. This, in my opinion, increases the need to carry out explanations of vote at the same time as the votes, thus postponing them to another sitting; among other things, voting will be a rather complex operation, because the opinions expressed are very articulated. I believe that at the moment we can postpone the debate and then the motions will be reinstated on the basis of the possibilities, otherwise we would have time to make only two explanations of vote and then we should stop the work. I believe that it is more respectful of those Members who wish to speak first of all to allow them to make their explanations of vote together with the others and close to the votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u63	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I do not see why paragraph 7 of Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure does not apply. We are starting at the end of the sitting and, therefore, we are allowing the inclusion of arguments, even not included (in this case it is), on the agenda, as the first item of the afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u64	This is another theme. If there is a request to that effect, I shall put it to the vote. This wasn't Senator Gasparri's petitum. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I'm asking. Mine's a re-petitum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If no comments are made, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u67	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would like to call on the House to respect, at least, the timetable provided for, the examination of a draft law linked to the stability law of the past year, which should have been examined for a long time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Sacconi, we're looking into another matter. SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). I would like to ask for a draft law linked to the Stability Act, which has been laid down by the Commission for three months. I hope that after motions, resolutions and Gramsci's house this text can finally be examined by the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u68	This is, as you know, defined at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u71	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, I rise to support the request made by Senator Gasparri to postpone the overall phase of the explanations of vote. My group is therefore in favour of this decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u72	Since it seems reasonable to continue and at the same time conclude the debate on immigration motions, I believe that, on a proposal from the President, explanations of vote can possibly be made at the afternoon sitting, even without waiting for eight senators to request it. I believe I can exercise this option if the groups do not object to it. Since other motions are scheduled for further consideration at the afternoon sitting, I believe that we could therefore begin work with the conclusion of the debate on immigration motions. I do not wish to make any comments to the contrary by the Groups, so I would refer the following to the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u73	We greet the students and teachers of the Technical Institute for Economic Technological Studies (Federico II) in Capua, in the province of Caserta. We welcome them. I hope they find it interesting to see our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u76	CAPACCHIONE (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this late-session speech continues today, here in the Senate, a relay with which, together with many senators and senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. On October 19 in Sant'Antimo, in the Province of Naples, Stefania Formicola, 28, was killed by her husband with a gunshot to the abdomen. Stefania was the mother of two children. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u77	Excuse me, Senator Capacchione. Perhaps the subject is not of interest to colleagues, but it is quite relevant. Therefore, at least allow the intervention to be carried out with the silence of the House. I beg you to go quietly, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u78	Please, Senator Capacchione. CAPACCHIONE (PD). For some time she had returned to her parents, putting up with more threats and violence and starting the path to separation. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u79	Senator Gasparri, please respect this intervention, which concerns the story of a murdered woman.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u80	CAPACCHIONE (PD). In the following days there were two other cases: in Turin, where she was killed by hammers, at the hands of her later suicidal husband, Natalina Montanaro, 71 years old; and in Montecerboli, in the province of Pisa, where he touched Nona Movila, 42 years old, mother of five children, stabbed mortally by his partner, also he then suicidal. This brings up to 21 the women we remember in this relay, which began only on June 30. Even in the Spoon River of the last weekend, however, feminicide is described in the newspapers as the extreme gesture of desperate men, who cannot accept separation from their wife or other common adversities, men experiencing economic and depressed difficulties. All true, yet all false. The usual explanations of manner, in short, that, giving a mitigating to the guilty, place a part of responsibility on the woman. Femicide, on the other hand, is almost always the extreme result of a series of long-standing violent behaviors. And so is it in these last cases. With Law No 119 of 2013 against gender violence, which this Parliament approved in implementation of the Istanbul Convention, our country has recognised violence against women as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination. He acknowledged that violence against women is a social phenomenon, which has its roots in the relationship of asymmetrical power between men and women. This is why it can be prevented by intervening on the factors that determine it. That is why a plan against violence against women has been proposed and approved and, in the meantime, the instruments of protection have been strengthened to ensure greater safety for women threatened. However, it is necessary to monitor that these measures work and that the plan is implemented. Stefania, for example, had denounced her husband five times and had gone away from home, taking refuge from her parents; but that was not enough to save her life. So what has not worked, even in these cases, in the protection network? Let us make our appeal with conviction. An appeal to the Minister for Equal Opportunities and to the Government everything: the directing booth, which met for the first time on September 8 last, monitors the application, the merits and the limits of Law No 119 of 2013 and above all give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. An appeal to the media: stop justifying murderers and blaming women. An appeal to the country, men and women: 160 women killed every year, we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups, and the Orellana and Bignami Senators]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u81	The Presidency supports Senator Capacchione's words.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u84	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, today I would like to talk to you about a small town on the Roman coast, Anzio, in relation to which the media inform us of a growing of criminal actions which, unfortunately, are behind both the 'ndrangheta and the camorra. The presence of these associations is now established by judicial investigations, which show how the mobsters would have put their roots in this territory both by infiltrating the public thing, and by awarding contracts, so much so that the city council member to the environment of the Municipality of Anzio has been returned to trial for abuse of office, while the deputy mayor, Giorgio Zucchini, would be involved in an investigation for bribes ended in the hands of the wife of a boss who is in prison under regime of 41 -bis. Intimidating actions that have taken place in recent years culminated, in October, in the arson of the vice mayor's car twice. Parliament asked the Minister for the Interior for clarification through the submission of several questions: in addition to our own (Question No 4-06364, tabled on 21 September 2016) there are another tabled by the SEL Group and another recently tabled. We believe it is time for the Minister of the Interior to come and report to the House on the opportunity to set up a prefectic commission that is the prelude to the dissolution of the Municipality of Anzio for Mafia. I remember that the town is located a few kilometers from Rome and, unfortunately, is giving an example of bad management. The Minister, not answering the many questions that have been put, lets us take over our coastline. We therefore call for the numerous questions put to us to be dealt with immediately. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u87	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are now familiar with the grandeur of Prime Minister Renzi, who made provision last year for the expansion of the fleet of state aircraft. Alongside the many Falcons and Airbus A319, the Premier has also acquired from Etihad an old Airbus A340-500 of ten years. It appears that the lease acquisition contract has been subject to state secrecy. Journalist inquiries are underway and there are those who speak of 15 million euros per year (40,000 euros per day) and who of 27 million euros per year (70,000 euros per day) that Italians have to pay, in the face of the spending review! Then, since this plane has been in the hangar of Fiumicino for almost a year, we thought, in front of its purchase, that Premier Renzi used it. We all imagined that, on the occasion of the trip to the court of Obama last week, Premier Renzi, with tail in his wake, had flown with this Airbus, which instead remained closed in the hangar of Fiumicino. In fact, we have learned that Prime Minister Renzi went to the court of Obama, for an unnecessary endorsement for the yes to the referendum, with two Airbus A319: two airbus, double crew and double fuel. Now we ask ourselves: what game is Renzi playing? Why did you take an expensive Airbus, even in management and maintenance charges, and then leave it in the hangar and go to the United States with two A319s? Premier Renzi, please, instead of saying fake savings to promote yes to the referendum, actually tell the Italians of the waste that is accumulating, one of which precisely with the purchase of this Airbus, which remains unnecessarily placed in the hangar of Fiumicino (because in that of Ciampino does not fit), with a considerable cost of rent. For this reason, last week the Group of the North League submitted the parliamentary question 4-06545: why do we want to go to the end and know why Renzi, with a tail in its wake, went with two Airbus to the court of Obama. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-707.ana.u88	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I would remind you that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 5.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed, as amended by the decision taken a moment ago by the Assembly. The sitting was closed at 13 p.m.
