ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 30 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the night between Friday and Saturday, nine of our fellow countrymen were brutally killed in a fundamentalist terrorist attack in Dhaka, Bangladesh's capital. The victims, five women and four men are Nadia Benedetti, Claudio Cappelli, Vincenzo D'Allestro, Claudia Maria D'Antona, Simona Monti, Adele Puglisi, Maria Riboli, Cristian Rossi and Marco Tondat. As pointed out in the aftermath of the massacre by the President of the Republic, they were our fellow citizens who worked peacefully, contributing to the growth of Bengali society, both through entrepreneurial activities and through the commitment to volunteering and in the third sector. Together with them, eleven other people of Japanese, Indian, American and Bengali nationality have tragically lost their lives. The terrorist attack in Dhaka represents the last of a long trail of blood attacks, which have also seen our country pay a painful tribute to innocent victims. The executioners are ruthless exponents of violent extremism which, in the name of religious fanaticism, seeks to undermine human rights and the values of peaceful coexistence and cooperation between peoples and cultures. Like the attack on the Bard Museum in Tunis, where four of our fellow citizens died, the Dhaka massacre is also part of a terrorist strategy aimed at harming those countries of Islamic tradition that, through the economic and cultural partnership, establish relations with the Western world. In this context, the news is deeply disturbing that the attackers are young Bengali people of a good cultural level and economic conditions. It would be a demonstration of how extremist fanaticism can take root even in non-outcast social groups. It is up to all of us, starting with the national and European institutions, to react firmly to this barbarism, both through the instruments of preventing and combating terrorist crime, and through the reaffirmation and firm defence of freedom, human dignity and equality, which constitute the founding elements of our civilization. The Senate of the Republic joins, therefore, in a strong and heartfelt embrace to the pain of families and of the entire country. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u7	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first thought goes to the victims; to those who have been waiting for them in those long hours; to those who were so close that they could almost see their loved ones or loved ones dying; to all those who loved them: this is a death that cannot be explained, it is a death that cannot be forgiven. Following the attack on the twin towers, the United States launched the largest international terrorist hunt, not without mistakes, not without many mistakes. To think that the representatives of Islamic terrorism, the Taliban, al-Nusra, al-Qaeda, al-Shabaab, Daesh and many other acronyms we have learned in recent years are only and only similar faces of the same criminal phenomenon is profoundly wrong, just as it is wrong to believe that it is still a geographically limited threat, even if it is constantly expanding, almost a front of terror ever closer to our doors or that recruitment and affiliation to the jihadist groups of new forces in the West takes place in areas of social distress precisely because of poverty and lack of prospects, for example in the great European peripheries. These are analyses that prove to be partial, superficial and not exhaustive every time. The news released by Bangladesh's Minister of Interior, according to which the perpetrators of the massacre at the Dacca restaurant were members of the Bengali jihadist group Jumatul Mujahedeen Bangladesh, all young people of social extraction - as you mentioned, Mr President, a moment ago - well-off, highly educated, among whom being jihadist militiamen would be a kind of fashion, is only the last confirmation. A different but not new reality emerges clearly and clearly, not even in the history of terrorism that has struck Italy during the so-called lead years: in this case, militiamen are not children of social hardship or poverty. We boast of being a people of great and refined culture, we often appeal to principles of solidarity and peace, of understanding differences; to be able, even better than our allies, to understand particular cultures and local realities, societies organized on a tribal basis; we thought we could identify the causes of the spread of religious fanaticism in Europe in the Western cultural crisis opposed to the renewed oriental fervour, able to give old answers to new questions, to new needs. But we have not understood that this reading alone does not explain the proliferation of extremism even in traditionally secular Islamic countries. A process, therefore, socio-cultural that must be fully understood, to explain also how the majestic communication machine put into action by the so-called caliphate is so efficient in circulating messages seemingly so far from the expectations of the Italian and European millennials. Finally, we must consider that this analysis is based on the geopolitical dynamics in the Middle East, which see three overlapping conflicts: the traditional contradiction between Shiites and Sunnis; the balances and interests between the great regional powers; the propaganda struggle against the western infidels. We therefore need a response, a reaction to the terrorist threat, firm, determined, immediate; concrete action, with every means available, political, diplomatic, military and intelligence, overcoming the logic of small internal oppositions. But action cannot be without proper analysis, before we discover that our children are also in search of utopias and ideals that do not belong to our cultural roots. West and East nothing can against nihilism which, as the only glue, seems to involve and overwhelm the abandonment of the awareness of the strength of its own history. Let us bear in mind the image of these days that sees Shiite and Sunni soldiers pray together in the mosques of the reoccupied (or liberated, depending on the point of view) Falluja, because first of all we must understand that our first allies are precisely those who in the Islamic world fight against fanaticism and religious extremism. In this respect, Mr President, I would like to ask you - I do not know whether other groups will participate in this request - to communicate to the Assembly of the Government, because what has happened is the greatest massacre, since the Second World War, of Italian citizens abroad by international terrorism. I therefore believe that it is right and proper for Parliament to take note of the Government's communications on this matter, not least because we have no longer had the confidence of the promise, not formalized, but merely made and which did not succeed, of the meeting of the President-in-Office of the Council with the Leaders. I therefore believe that it is important and fundamental to have a communication from the Government in this House on what has tragically happened in Dhaka and I would like you to speak for it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC) and GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u8	I will immediately interpret this request and, as soon as the Government is available, we will establish, on the basis of the agreement between the parties, when to place such communication on the calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u11	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I support the request made by the Forza Italia Parent Company on behalf of the Conservative and Reformist Group. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise. Well yes, I say it immediately: I apologize if I will not participate in those commemorations of rite, based on politically correct, voted for the exaltation of martyrdom, based on misplaced bases of patriotic love, imbued with a hypocritical pietism, which always end with obvious banality of the type: hatred will not triumph. I do not wear the cloth and therefore leave the sermons to those who are accustomed to it. As a parliamentarians, however, I am obliged to follow a religion before anything else and it is the religion of reason. The more I think about it, the more I convince myself that we have no better way, not so much to commemorate but - alive God! - to honour the memory of these compatriots slaughtered by the barbarism of Islam. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] In other words, we have to ask ourselves, in a secular way, what attitude the Western world has, and in this case we want to have towards the Muslim world. If not now I make this motto so dear to the Italian left. Yes, that is the question that we must ask ourselves in an imperative way if we are to honour the victims and our function. Our fellow countrymen were slaughtered because they did not know the verses of the Koran. After the events of Paris I wanted to read it, just to understand if it was a question of differences of religion or social differences and the conclusions I drew from it are chilling, if I think of the attitude of excessive understanding and indulgence that the "democratic sinceres" feel towards them. Fundamental values of our civilization, such as freedom and democracy, are blasphemy to the Koran. Women are incompatible with the Koran and human rights are incompatible with the Koran. In short, the very concept of civilization, as the West has built it, is incompatible with the Koran and Islam is the Koran and the Koran is Islam. So, if this is the case - and it seems to me that the terrible daily news is charged with confirming it every day more and more - is it not time to review our foreign policy together with Europe's foreign policy? Isn't it time to question ourselves about the control of our territories? Is it not time to redesign immigration policy and economic relations, including the Treaties, with all Muslim countries? In other words, do we want to give priority to the values of freedom and democracy even before economic values? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I wonder and ask you, but begin with an extension of the principle of reciprocity, internationally recognized, according to which meanwhile I have you build a mosque, in how much you can build a church in your country, while you are free to profess your religion in my country, as I am free to profess mine in yours, can it serve? Or must we always be willing to have every distinctive sign of our civilization trampled on? There is no one in the world who defends his identity as Muslims. Then, in the indignation of a few moments it may happen that the father beat the daughter because he dared to wear a jeans or that he beat his wife because today it is so, or that he finds the crucifix offensive in the classrooms of our schools, or that we celebrate Christmas or Easter or that it is from "infidel dogs" drinking Moscato or eating a pork rib. Here, we are so for the Koran: we are unfaithful dogs, but sociologists and intellectuals tell us that we must work for integration. But they read the Qur'an, for God's sake! Muhammad forbids integration. And speaking of sociologists and intellectuals, what about this Dhaka massacre? The barbaric assassins of this carnage are not the miserable of the Parisian banlieues, people who for retaliation on non-integration, condemned to poverty, wield the machine gun and do massacres of unfaithful dogs. No, the executioners of Dhaka are the children of the social elites of their country, they were trained in the best schools and universities and enjoyed the comforts that their social class had guaranteed them. Forgive me then if I use with a little mockery the words of Oriana Fallaci and I wonder where are today the left to caviar, the right to foie gras and the center to ham. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] What are these exegetes of goodness going to tell us today a kilo by kilo? I think there are countless reasons that force us to react. We are in front of the house of a powder keg called Libya, to which the international community looks with algid detachment, unnerving tacticism and despicable slowness. We must start to deal with it with great intransigence and determination. We have, or rather it would be to say that we are now under an unbearable immigration of foreigners, to whom answers must be given different from the simplistic reasons at present. In short, what are the indispensable national interests must be better protected and established. And, please, spare me the puerile and sterile judgments, aimed at securing licenses of racism and xenophobia: these are feelings that are light years away from my culture. Instead, let us take inspiration from the great example that comes from the brother of one of the victims, let us take an example from Father Monti who, exalting his evangelical mission, grants forgiveness to the executioners of his sister Simona. Then we too exalt our mission, which is to guarantee security and freedom to our fellow countrymen. Only if we do so will we have honored the memory of the Italians killed in Dacca. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u14	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, the senators before me have already expressed the opinion - which is also our request, which we had already thought of in the aftermath of the massacre - that perhaps the presence of the President of the Council in the Chamber could be useful to report on what has happened. Dhaka's is the down grave jihadist massacre of Italian civilians since September 11, 2001, when 10 of our compatriots died in attacks at the Twin Towers in New York. A higher number of Italian victims were counted only on November 12, 2003, when 17 soldiers committed to the Italian contingent in Iraq lost their lives in the attack in Nassiriya. This is the fourth episode involving Italians in 2016 alone, after the events of Brussels, Tripoli and Burkina Faso, while in March 2015 we remember the massacre at the Bardo Museum in Tunis, which cost the lives of 22 people, and in November the death of the twenty-nine-year-old student Valeria Solesin in the Bataclan massacre in Paris. The victims knew each other: entrepreneurs of the textile sector, often went to that restaurant that serves Mediterranean cuisine, perhaps to taste the tastes of their country, but there they found death, barbaricly tortured and killed by machete shots. It is difficult for us to conceive of such violence: it seems inhuman, indeed it certainly is. How do you get mad at a young pregnant woman and other helpless people? This is really inconceivable. A sideral distance separates us from these perverse minds. Yet, a handful of men is keeping the world in check with continuous attacks, but above all by making us live under a hood of fear, beating us psychologically as well as materially. The Northern League, my Group, for many years now has been carrying out a battle, which has remained solitary for a long time, in support of the identity of the peoples as the only instrument of defence and support of our civilization in the face of the global challenges and the attacks declared by other cultures. Especially for this reason, the movement's commitment to denouncing the fundamentalist threat of Islamic origin has been strong, which has been favored and made possible by the widespread multicultural and goodist attitude. In fact, the fundamentalist challenge would not be so urgent and dangerous if the blow did not sink into a lost West, which lowered the demographic guard, psychologically and spiritually, unable to react because it is addicted to the ideals of multiculturalism and globalization necessary for an economically usable conception of reality, but at the price of a non-exit relativism with regard to values, identities and traditions. A relativism that made us pass with a simple pressure of a remote control button on Saturday night, from the news of a massacre to a football match. Yet the world discovered Bangladesh's existence in August 1971, when some great artists, including Bob Dylan and Eric Clapton, went on stage for a charity concert. It was one of the first ideas of globalization: there was music, there was good feelings, there was a fundraiser for children who starved to death in that tiny shrapnel of Indian continent, exhausted by famine and civil wars, which had done, among other things, three million deaths and tens of millions of refugees. The Italian victims of the Dhaka massacre were all too young to remember that concert. Their Bangladesh was another thing, a second homeland, where to do business trusting on the good rate of growth, on the docility of textile workers and on an unlimited labour force and this in the name of the possibility of living in a global village, where even the equipped society becomes resource and attracts investment. Attention to small factories and work: these were our fellow citizens. But Bangladesh, Mr President, is not the only country outside European borders and not at war where Italians could be in the crosshairs of terrorism. About 35,000 companies spread throughout North Africa and Arab countries. If that was an attack on the Italians, we will have to be very careful, Mr President, because sometimes there is extreme damage even without attacks at home. You see, Mr President, to the suicide bombers who die fighting against the enemies of Islam it does not matter if they produce only massacres of innocent people: by their suicide actions they acquire the right to enter Paradise with the qualification of martyrs. I'm sorry, gentlemen, you're not martyrs to me. You're just brutal murderers, and you're cowards. You in Heaven will not set foot. Adele, Marco, Claudia, Nadia, Vincenzo, Maria, Cristian, Claudio and Simona: for you the gates of Paradise are wide open. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u17	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, the Dacca massacre has put us in front of a pain before which we were unprepared and addicted at the same time. What do I mean? I mean addicted and unprepared, because on the day of the tragedy our media, our television and radio did not know how to manage, for example, the presence of the national football game, in the face of such an immense mourning. Within a hundred hours tragic and monstrous attacks have taken place (it is difficult to find suitable adjectives): Istanbul, Dhaka, Baghdad. Yet, at the same time, we run the risk that this does not lead to an increase in our awareness of the evil that shows his most horrible face and that we lose the meaning of the burning pain that, in distant Dacca, there are nine Italians killed with unspeakable cruelty because they did not know by heart the Koran. A blasphemous, obscene rite worthy of a war without a neighborhood. In the face of this destruction of reason, how should the world of democracy and Western civilization respond? What is expected is certainly the compactness of a front of rationality and common sense against barbarism. A compactness of principles. A compactness, if necessary, of military collaboration, intelligence, prevention and solidarity. In short, the defence of one's identity, which in fact guided the democratic world on its difficult path towards peace and development. Yet this will not be possible unless we learn to call things by their name. Do not understand that the battle against terrorism of Islamist ideology is a common task can only favor the forces of irrationality, the ranchorous nihilism of Bangladesh's wealthy jihadists, the non-sense of life, the resentment of the materialist globalized society, which push to a landing place where nihilism and justiceism merge: it is in the name of an alleged divine justice that terrorists felt legitimate to kill and make their victims suffer. Empty heads and hearts, in Dhaka as in Molembeek, are more dangerous than empty stomachs. And taking God's name hostage for his plan of power would perhaps have been worth to the murderers again the impunity, which stems from the fact that he acted against the Crusaders and the unfaithful if, on the ground, they had not been denied and defeated by the sacrifice of young Faraaz Hossein, who, as a testimony of what it means to understand the greatness of God, sacrificed his life to obey the voice of his conscience and tighten himself to the Muslim friends dressed too Westernly and to the unfaithful Italians and Japanese with whom he shared one more of the true humanity that will never be of his executioners. Let us, then, also extend ourselves to the families of the victims, let us draw ourselves to cohorts, as our national anthem says, so that in our country conscience prevails over indifference. And let us also strive - I have no fear of saying so on this matter - alongside our Government, because with patient determination it contributes, in the international community and in the face of the scenarios of war that persist, to the prevalence of the rationality of politics and our ideals, in the name of an Italy that knows how to be united in the fight that history entrusts to it. And I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will come to this House as soon as possible and that he will share with us not only the concerns, but also the strategies for this war to be won. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u20	AMORUSO (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of the AL-A Group, I express sentiments of condolence for the victims of the heinous crime that took place in Dhaka on the night between Friday and Saturday and closeness to their families. That night, nine Italians were atrociously and brutally murdered by Islamic terrorists, who infested on their bodies even though they were already wounded and some already dead. So, those gentlemen have vilely tried to make up for what are the defeats that are militarily suffering, striking innocent civilians, entrepreneurs and workers who thousands of miles from their country were looking for a response to the globalization of the markets. They have done well by the highest authority of the State, from the President of the Republic to the President of the Council, to appeal to all the Italian people to rediscover that indispensable unity at these times, which must serve greatly to create the conditions to react in the right way in the face of such heinous facts. But it is not only Dhaka, it is Istanbul, it is Baghdad; it is an infinite war different from the usual wars, but for this very reason it is more insidious and difficult to fight. Now is not the time for distinctions, easy accusations against those who by geographical belonging also live in our territory. It is not the time to end up in exasperated nationalisms which serve to create the conditions for that unity to be lacking in order to combat terrorism and combat it, to face the challenges facing our West. This is the moment when, as the facts of Dhaka show, terrorism no longer finds those sociological justifications of the post-Marxist rhetoric of terrorists for hunger or social inequality. As Senator Mario Mauro rightly said, today terrorism is unfortunately about those who are more empty in their heads than in their stomachs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that today is the time for reflection, but also for reaction: I am referring to the right reaction and the right sense of unity that must make the sense of belonging feel strong. Today is not the time for a choir on the lack of security, on the controls that will have been few or omitted and on the underestimating of danger. More could have been done: this is what is often said; but today is not the time for these assessments. Today we are facing deaths that must be a symbol for us, as have all those who have fallen in these years in the world, because they have lost their lives to serve peace, freedom and homeland. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u23	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, Mr Moretti said that words are important and then, at least in this House, we try to use them in our own way. Martyrs are the nine Italians killed like that and not the people who killed them. Those who killed them are Islamic terrorists, there is no doubt, because they kill by quoting and in the name of Allah. But be careful, because I would not say that both Islam and these murderers profit, rather I would say that Islam is its hostage, it is the ground of this conquest. It has also been said by you, Mr President, that these Islamic assassins, who are of good family and have done good studies, have killed our compatriots and all the Westerners who were in the restaurant to overcome the internal censorship and the general disinterest in Bangladesh, hitting the Islamic ruling class of their country with a slap in the face, that is, their own fathers, as has been said and noted. At the same time, another attack killed 25 Shiite children and over 200 people in Baghdad. Muslims killing Muslims. Shortly before that there had been the attack in Istanbul: a message from killers coming from the former Soviet Union to the former friend of Daesh, Erdogan, to reopen the dispute and war with Russia, evokeing a scenario - the Pope spoke of it - that had already occurred shortly before and during World War I, a hundred years ago, when the first genocide of the century occurred. Then the Armenians hit each other, while now, if this happened and went on, the Kurds would risk it. We must therefore be careful. When many of our colleagues insist on Islam's responsibility, they assume two things, both profoundly wrong. The first is that it is possible to raise a wall that protects us from a virus that is supposed to come from the outside. First, the virus doesn't really come from abroad (then I'll say why) and, secondly, it spreads with air and therefore the wall doesn't serve. The second assumption is that if the Islamics are slaughtered among themselves, all in all, for us it is not bad. This is the policy of imperialism in the Middle East and in the lands of Islam. This is not the case: if the Muslims slaughter each other, they take us hostage and do so in Dhaka, Istanbul and even the Bataclan in Paris. We need to know this and also that defending and supporting the so-called moderate Arab states (which are often corrupt and responsible for paying for those fundamentalist imams that have spread even in the West the theory of jihad for life) means basically playing the game of this jihad. I would like to make one more thing quite clear about the culture of Dhaka's murderers. Watch that the jihad wahabita is a simplified and very effective response to globalization. It is no coincidence that he began to talk about it at the time of the first globalization, with Enlightenment, British imperialism and Napoleonic wars. This jihad wahabita simplifies beyond the Koran and Islam and denies any possible mediation; denies the great history of Islam: Avicenna, Averroé, the Alhambra and I could go on. He even denies the monument to the prophet because this also weakens the aspect of total submission to the god, which then means submission to the caliph, that is, to the temporal head and warrior, which is the fundamental element of this virus that creeps into many minds of all parts of the world. Be careful because this virus also affects our civilization. Do you remember what happened in Orlando? It was probably a young American, even with homosexual urges, who exterminated a community of homosexuals. How much did you forget about Saint-Denis? Did you see the pictures of that gentleman with the bike and the naked girls who then massacred the Bataclan? The virus is within us and pretending that it is not, to think that we can isolate it without fighting globalization with a non-human face with a globalization with a human face would be a serious and unforgivable error. Mr President, I would like to conclude by asking the Government to come to this House and talk about these issues. President, it is important to talk about this seriously and tell us what Bangladesh is, that there is a war of our ally and friend Saudi Arabia in Yemen and that this war is like a purulent wound that causes other wounds. Today, defending rights in all countries and therefore not having any attitude towards a so-called moderate part of Islam is fundamental to isolate and beat this fanaticism in the name of Allah, who has done the damage he has done. Let us talk about this in this House. President, we are not all saying the same thing. I, for example, appreciated Senator Romani's speech; other speeches seemed weaker and less focused on the real reason for the challenge. I conclude by saying that, if we really have to honor the Italian martyrs in Dhaka, the thing to do is have the ability to analysis blunt, frank and also to be consequent. At this point, I strongly request, on behalf of the whole Group, the debate in this House with the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u26	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to say that, on behalf of the People's Area Group, I have shared what you have said by opening this sitting and that you do not deserve any further comments. Istanbul, Baghdad, Bangladesh and Saudi Arabia are rings of a chain of deaths, horror and terror. We must at this moment - which is not the time of in-depth analysis - express solidarity with families and symbolically unite with the strong sentiment of this House to all Italians abroad. I am thinking of the Italian workers (such as those who fell in Bangladesh); the Italians who cooperate and volunteer (as we have seen in Iraqi Kurdistan in recent days to help the women of Yazide or the runaway Christians); the military who represent the best of our Italianity and who are there engaged as a fundamental instrument of foreign policy. ISIS, Al Qaeda, terrorist groups of all kinds and reams are on the attack, and it is right that we draw conclusions from this Bangladesh affair to avoid major errors of underestimation or overestimation. I have seen that Italian newspapers express great interest in the fact that these criminals were and are children of the high bourgeoisie of that country. But who was Bin Laden, if not the product of the subspecies of the Saudi royal house that in his struggle to change the balances in the great Saudi kingdom drew inspiration and also used people of low class as a labour of the ruthless terror he had put in place? Therefore, I believe that the dramatic question that we ask ourselves so many times after the massacres arises. The answer is not to identify in a social class the daughter of these events; unfortunately the social classes are the most disparate, and terrorism is a great unifying evil. I would also like to say that another question that always arises is whether there is a religious war going on. Let me conclude by saying once again: Let's stop. The Muslims in the world are billions, the Christians in the world are billions; let us avoid ourselves falling into the trap of those who, with that request for evocation of the Koran, clearly demonstrate their plan: to create in the world a war set on religious bases. This is exactly what we, in the name of our civilization and our conception of religious freedom, must refuse. No war can be waged in the name of God: this is what John Paul II told us in Parliament. Well, we draw from that evocation of a great Pope a common civil sense that unites this whole House. There is no religious war going on, there is an attempt to read in a distorted way some pages of the Koran by those who use Islam or want to use it to divide humanity. But in reality the goals are not just Christians. This time Italians have fallen, but in Tunis, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Muslims fall, because this terror has no borders of belonging, nationality, religion and affects everyone indiscriminately. The real problem, which we see, see and know how to read, is clear: a great division and tearing distinction between those of this civilization who want to make bearer of its values and also its contradictions (why not, we are in a civilization full of contradictions), and those who want to break it down. I think our compatriots have not fallen in vain: it is a stage of a battle that will be long, of a fight that must be done without neighborhood, having the awareness that Italy is at the forefront. There is no one here who can declare himself out of this war, because this war beyond our will involves us. Italy is at the forefront like the other countries, and I like to conclude by evoking Faraaz Hossain, the young man who sacrificed himself not to leave alone his companions who had his own religion, and not to leave our fellow countrymen alone. It is the extraordinary example of a wonderful boy who had religious conceptions different from ours, but who is united with us by the sense of belonging to a common destiny. [[Applause from the AP groups (NCD-UDC) and PD and Senators Bencini and Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u29	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, I repeat my condolences and sympathy for the family and friends of the victims of this horrendous massacre. I listened very carefully to all the speeches that preceded me. These are extremely difficult and complicated subjects; probably every rapporteur has a part of reason, because perhaps there are many reasons and there is not a single reason that can explain these heinous acts, that can explain the origins and the unfolding of terrorism. I try to make a reasoning that could add extra piece. Probably, here we are faced with secular struggles to maintain or expand our positions of power; power struggles that take place among tribal clans that have developed over the centuries. I would also like to mention what has been added over the last few centuries, namely the reality of external organisms penetrated into certain regions to grab raw materials; in essence, I am talking about multinational organisms. Let us remember that Pope Francis also said in his last encyclical that multinational companies often arrive devastating a territory and leaving behind them a trail of devastation. I wonder if the terrorists, who were cultured in this case, have, however, grown up in a substratum of lack of real democracy and, therefore, in a substratum where there is a strong presence of oligopolies: not democracy, therefore, but oligopolies. I also wonder whether it is not possible that one of the factors that amplifies these oligopolies is an ever-increasing concentration of wealth and capital: fewer and fewer people who have more and more capital in their hands. At least we have precise data in our hands on this, because we have precise figures that confirm that this is actually happening. I also wonder whether one of these causes is the deregulation of the financial market in recent decades; a deregulation that has literally unleashed financial power, amplified also by the advent of computer science, which has exasperated the speed of transaction, the possibilities for the multiplication of electronic money in circulation and the introduction of a number of new instruments due to the lack of rules. This has exaggerated the strength of the so-called leverage and, therefore, multiplied the money and the fact that this financial power, in many cases, exploits the territories for their raw materials and, in others, goes to finance the trafficking of weapons and drugs or investments in the economy and virtual finance, which further amplify the situation of lack of democracy. Certainly, one of the reasons may be that of religion, but historically we know that religion is often a screen to defend economic interests. Here we are probably in the presence of yet another act of divide and empire: I create confusion in the region, amplifying the differences and the reasons for mutual hatred in order to be able to exploit more comfortably the resources of both raw materials and labour that that region makes available to me. I would like to end with an appeal. As politicians, we know perfectly well that we should act at the legislative level to reduce and eliminate all these causes. But I also appeal to the citizens who listen to us, who do not know that the money they deposit in credit institutions is being used, with a leverage of 500 to 1, in virtual and speculative finance, and also in arms and drug trafficking. I would like to tell them that there is another type of finance, that is ethical, that works only on the real economy and on the ethical and sustainable economy, that does not ruin the territory and that does not ruin the people who work in that economy. Therefore, we as legislators have a duty to minimize every possible cause, but I also appeal to citizens because they too can do a great deal; the sea is made up of so many small drops and, because of the leverage, the power of the individual citizen is also much higher than he thinks he owns. Therefore, I also call on the citizens to make their contribution to this. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u32	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have to say that I find it hard to find words suitable to express the great pain of the senators and senators of the Democratic Party for the death of nine Italians murdered away from their homeland. We have all read their stories: they were nine innocent Italians, good, peaceful people, great workers; Italians who have honored Italy in the world, who have made our country known, have made it respected and made it love. Their murder is much more than an act of violence, of heinous cruelty, bloodthirsty and atrocious cynicism: it is a vile, cowardly act. These continuous murders of women, men and even children, all innocent, killed to make a spectacle of death, to have the headlines, to draw the attention of public opinion, are all disgusting and are the worst that human nature can give when it gets so seriously ill. The unjust death of nine good Italians is part of a dramatic and very long sequence of murders, of massacres, of real killings that for years now, with increasing violence and frequency, at the hands of the so-called Islamist terrorism, are bleeding the world, the whole world: from the American continent to Europe, from Asia to the African continent. There is a clear political intent behind such horror. There is the senseless will to strike both the West and the vast part of the Islamic world that does not accept violence and terror. We know how difficult and long the fight against terrorism is. It was in the 1970s and 1980s in Italy, it is even more so now that it has taken on an uncontrolled global dimension, but we cannot accept that this barbarity continues; we cannot accept it because we have a duty to defend innocent men and women. We cannot accept this because in the history of humanity a terrorist violence so bloody and so widespread has always been the antechamber of war, of a war that today would be frightening, that we do not even understand against who it would be, of a war that the world must prevent by any means and at any cost. I repeat, those who are sowing terror in the world have a clear and declared intention: they want more and more destruction, more and more dead. He wants us not to feel safe anywhere, afraid of being hit everywhere. Italy must thank its police forces, its armed forces, its intelligence, its judiciary and its diplomacy. It is men and women who, with great professionalism and sacrifice, are protecting us from a real danger that operates hidden, camouflaged, cowardly and always strikes at betrayal. We must help the police, the armed forces, intelligence, the judiciary, diplomacy; give them the resources, equipment and men they need because national security is in their hands. I also believe that it is necessary for the Government to come to this House to inform Parliament of the tragedy of the Dhaka massacre, but we senators, we parliamentarians, must ask ourselves what each of us can and must do to help Italy and Europe to defend itself better. I believe that our first duty is to show a united country; at least united on the major issues of security, a Parliament where we are debating but not insulting, a Parliament where majority and opposition do not break up on the defence of the fundamental principles of peace and the defence of the lives of citizens. One of the objectives of terrorists is to divide us: they also kill us for this, to feed the divisions in Western democracies, to create chaos, to blow our nerves. If we want to respond to violence by the force of our democracy (and our democracy must in this case demonstrate its strength), we show them our capacity for cohesion and our national unity. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u33	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u34	Mr President, I share the very significant words you made at the beginning of this sitting. To the families of the victims of the barbaric attack in Bangladesh, I would like to express here in this House, on behalf of the Government, the deepest sympathy and closeness to their deep sorrow. It is a pain that unites us all and that will make us all hold in an ideal embrace when tonight, at Ciampino airport, we will welcome the bodies of our nine fellow countrymen. This morning Deputy Minister Giro landed in Dhaka to accompany them on their return trip to Rome, where President Mattarella and Foreign Minister Gentiloni will be waiting for them. As the President of the Republic recalled, they were our fellow citizens who were working in that country also contributing to its growth. They have portrayed the contrast between peaceful coexistence, the desire to work and engage in collaboration with others, and the dullness of obscurantism, violence and terrorism. They have been brutally killed people whose will - it seems obvious to me - was of friendship and not of hostility, of understanding and not of division. Unfortunately, Dhaka's is the most serious attack on our countrymen after what happened in Nassiriya. It is only the last, in terms of time, of so many tragic events that have marked the life of recent years and that have caused a long trail of innocent victims, both Italian and non-Italian. Today is again the time to mourn the loss of human lives, such as those in Brussels, Istanbul, Ankara, Tunis, Paris, Syria and Iraq and in other areas of crisis. However, I think we must not give in to discouragement and fear or resignation. Above all, we must not betray the deep sense of our values. Our reaction must be as strong as the emotional impact that had in us the images of the Dhaka restaurant, the Istanbul airport, the Bataclan in Paris. The hateful attack in Bangladesh requires us not to back down a millimetre in the fight against terror and must push us to further strengthen all the instruments at our disposal to combat terrorism and its heinous intents. Of course, I am not only talking about support for those who fight Daesh on the ground, but also about further strengthening international cooperation at all levels, capturing - I believe - the evolution of the phenomenon, which is certainly no longer determined only by social conditions, but rather by environmental and global contexts. The distortion of religion for the purposes of domination: this is its understanding and use. We must isolate fundamentalist terrorism within the reality of the Islamic world and we must do so by asking the Islamic communities in our countries and the governments of the different Islamic countries to engage with us at the highest possible level. We owe it to the victims of the attack. We owe it to our children, who we want to be able to grow up in a safe world and not pervaded by hatred and terror. We owe it to our values, to tolerance, to respect for others, to the rejection of violence, to all those principles for which we have fought over the centuries and which we do not want to give up. It is indeed time for a new and appropriate resistance to defeat the usurpers of our time: the usurpers of freedom, who strike every civilization, every community and every religion. The President-in-Office of the Council has recently made a strong appeal to all political and social forces to live together this page of pain, of which ample witness has been given here, in the face of the tragedy of radical extremism. He said, in fact, that we believe it is the moment when Italy gives a message of pain and compassion. We mourn tears of solidarity and mourning, but it is also the time to send out a message of determination: Italy does not fall back in front of the madness of those who want to disintegrate daily life. Finally, on behalf of the Government, I welcome the necessary request, received on behalf of several parliamentary groups, for the Government to report shortly to the Senate on the events and consequences. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Misto-SI-SEL groups and the Senator Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u35	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1328-B, approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Formigoni, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u36	Mr President, as you mentioned, the draft law before us today has already been examined and approved at first reading in the Senate, and I must say a long time ago. He returns to the House today for a third examination after the House of Members has adopted a text which contains a series of amendments, compared to the original one approved by us, which constitute a plant only in part different, but which, in my opinion, confirm the validity of the first choice of this House and also many of the fundamental characteristics that we wanted to give the measure. It is precisely the changes that have been made that are the subject of the current examination and my report - which I ask the President to be able to leave to the documents to be published in the Minutes of today's sitting, so as not to tease colleagues with a very large list of even rather boring points - that will sum up the contents of the report. I would therefore like to focus briefly on some of the characteristics that say that this measure as a whole is something extremely useful for our world of the primary sector. It is a very significant contribution. This is also true of the great expectation that our farmers have long pointed out to us that Parliament is finally changing the measure under consideration. The text addresses profiles that are of fundamental importance to the sector both from the institutional and the economic point of view. I would like to remind you briefly that the fundamental issues we are dealing with are simplification - never as is necessary in all sectors of production, starting with agriculture - and I reorder many regulations, the theme of youth entrepreneurship, the reorganization of the agencies and agencies supervised by the Ministry, the development of businesses, the management of risks and crises in agriculture and support for the short supply chain and organic agriculture. In the connection with our examination is also contained a series of important innovations, such as the important delegations to the Government to introduce uniform legislation in various sectors, including the adoption of an agricultural code and any special texts, and the adoption of rules on generational replacement in agriculture, which obviously aim to facilitate the entry of young people into the sector and the start and continuation of new companies. It still contains provisions to support organic agriculture and aquaculture, sectors which are expanding and of considerable interest to consumers. In addition, there are also specific provisions on individual product sectors of particular interest to our country: I quote among others tomato, rice, honey and bee products, craft beer, mushrooms, fish products, the aforementioned fishing and aquaculture. At this point I would also like to point out - Mr President, I will be permitted - the work carried out during the examination in the Commission. It was also this time an in-depth debate, which allowed all the points of the measure to be examined and allowed many to highlight the very value of the measure as a regulatory framework for many profiles of the primary sector, through measures that will give a further boost to the agricultural sector. In short, I believe that it can be said that from the collaboration between the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, even in a period of time that many (among whom I too) would have liked it to be shorter, we have reached a text that, after the wide spaces of deepening guaranteed by the different readings, appears enriched with new fundamental contents compared to its original formulation. I would like to stress that the examination in the Commission has allowed attention to be focused on some very important issues, which are in turn susceptible not only to immediate use, but also to provide a further useful starting point for reflection and deepening, also with a view to further future regulatory action. This work by the Commission is also supported by the broad presence of agendas, in which the Commission has wished to highlight new facts on which to stimulate the action of the Government and I stress that many of these agendas have been positively assessed and accepted by the Government, as will be clear when we pass the vote. Among the topics covered in our work I would like to mention the profiles such as the cultivation property, the modernisation of the logistic infrastructures of the agro-food sector, the zootechnics of the mountain areas, the credit guarantee for the agricultural holdings, the telematic registration of the network contracts, as well as numerous interventions in the dairy sector and also the legal regime relating to certain agricultural waste, the fruit and citrus sectors. In short, I really believe that it can be said that the text that comes to our examination and to today's vote is a legitimate fruit of a thorough reflection that has allowed a meditated definition of the contents and that has seen the contribution and a broad convergence of the political forces. I was quoting a number of agendas; let me stress three of them that I have tabled. The first relates to the regime of cracks and prunings, which presented some critical issues to a more in-depth examination than what the House of Deputies had been able to achieve. The agenda invites the Government to monitor the effects of the rule and to assess its possible change if it is a source of application uncertainty or unequal treatment. I would like to stress two more agendas concerning the beer sector and the citrus sector. I'm going to conclude. I have already mentioned before how our farmers have long been waiting for this measure. I therefore hope that the Senate can finally approve the measure itself, which will reveal its positive influence not only on the agricultural sector, but also - I think - on the whole national economy, of which the primary sector is an indispensable substrate. I think that we can define this agricultural link as a further component, which goes in addition to the agricultural laws already definitively adopted during this parliamentary term. There are many of them, colleagues; we have worked intensively, between the Senate and the House, on these issues. I quote, among other things, the law on social agriculture, the law on the protection of agrarian and food biodiversity, as well as the conversion of the decree-law on the relaunch of the agricultural sector, as well as the profiles of competence of broader laws. I really want to conclude, Mr President and colleagues, by pointing out that it is precisely these weeks that we are given the growing results of Italian agriculture in these quarters, particularly in the South. These positive data tell us of a revival of the world of our farmers and of a new interest of the younger generations. And I believe that they also allow us to say, with satisfaction, that perhaps our legislative action has not been useless, but has made some contribution. So we want to deliver this further fruit of our work to all the operators in the primary sector, so that it can help their work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u37	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over your report, Senator Formigoni, so that it is annexed to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill relating to agriculture largely delegates to the Government further provisions on the simplification, rationalisation and competitiveness of the agricultural, agri-food and so on. It is indeed - and I stress this here - a great opportunity for change and it is a great opportunity for our companies to re-launch. The companies, as shown by the 49th Censis report on the social situation in the country, suffer from a situation of weakness and tend to close. (17.48) (Following). This measure instead marks, like other measures of this Parliament and of this Government, a great propulsive commitment and the will to revive an economic and social dynamic of the Country, through a production of framework and sector reforms and the introduction of interventions aimed at stimulating the entrepreneurial propensity, especially of young people, and also the collective involvement of over sixty-five years old and retired. An objective that aims to promote the necessary osmosis between politics and the articulated universe of social. In order to promote the development of the real country, we need an inventive capacity and winning processes: young people who try the way of start-ups in agriculture and agro-food, companies that invest in innovation and green economy, collaboration and intergenerational cooperation, capable of promoting the exchange of knowledge and skills, new and ancient knowledge between the various age groups. The territories of the agricultural enterprise become places, laboratories, hubs of relationality, of integration of differences in our everyday life. Made in Italy finds these foundations in the integration between gastronomy and agri-food supply chain, in the integration between agriculture, environment, tourism and culture. The measure is therefore of an innovative nature and is approved after a long examination, in which it has been amended, as the rapporteur has pointed out just now. Some of its parts, inserted in emergency decrees, are therefore State law. The aim of the measure, which is part of the government's road map, is mainly to free the agricultural world from the regulatory obsession, to deburocratize, to make the whole system of controls faster, more efficient and more effective. On simplification and controls, I think it is important to point out the reduction in time for the public administration (sixty days) in order to respond to the requests submitted by the agricultural assistance centres; the elimination of the company file for small oil producers (less than 350 kilos per year); new rules on the labelling and packaging requirements for tomato products; the introduction of sanctions in the event of non-registration to the apistic register; the reorganization and reduction of the entities supervised by MIPAAF; the reorganization of AGEA, the Agency for the supply of agricultural products; the reorganization of the control system; the rationalization of the companies of Agecontrol SpA; the obligation to publish annual economic, financial and capital data, as well as the allocation of the resources saved to the internationalization of the Made in Italy: all this could make the difference for the future of the delivery system to producers of aid, contributions and Community premiums in the direction of improving the quality of agricultural services, which - I would like to emphasize - are going through a period of slow and difficult transversal resumption in all sectors. I would like to highlight the great conquest of civilizations which involves the inclusion in the statutes of consortia of protection of the principle of gender balance in positions. The statutes of consortia must provide that the division of directors to be elected is carried out on the basis of a criterion that ensures this balance. After a long period of crisis, therefore, that has seen the closure of enterprises, the abandonment of lands, the closure of stables, the degradation of the role of agricultural enterprises, come from the new measures already in place, including the connected, a new impulse to our country, a boost to the economy, a support to small and medium-sized enterprises, an incentive to supply chain agreements, as well as technological and IT innovation, to the precision agriculture and the transfer of knowledge from the field of research to the primary sector. I will skip a part of my speech, which I will hand over to the record, so as not to steal time from other colleagues, but I would like to stress something more. It is important - in my view - to provide for priority criteria for the granting of tax relief for the over 65-year-old farmer and the young farmer. At this point a whole series of ways and measures are envisaged for the transfer of entrepreneurial skills, including within projects, between older farmer and younger farmer, with forms of partnership with business profits and recognition of the right of pre-emption for young people in the event of the sale of land covered by the relationship between the two generations. The preferential forms for the young entrepreneur for the management and use of agricultural means are a further significant element of considerable account. A national agricultural policy, therefore, that contributes to enriching the pages of Made in Italy cannot be reluctant to innovation nor stingy to investment, but must invent products, promote new production processes and intercept new global applications. It will be appropriate for the measure to bear in mind the conditions - for which I would like to say a word - of the agricultural institutions, whose representatives we have received and heard today at the hearing, as well as in recent days. We have held some hearings which have proved to be very interesting and useful. Especially when these institutes have annexed a company, they should have easier access to PONs, technologies, innovative instruments, without which students, even in the presence of excellent teachers, could not acquire and capitalize ability to intervene in the complexity of the agricultural world that increasingly requires avant-garde instruments for the optimization of production processes. From my meetings with the representatives of agricultural institutes, but also from the hearing in the Senate in the Agriculture Commission of the President of the network of agricultural professional and technical institutes, some reflections emerge, such as the need to enable young people to confront innovative tools and technologies, very little present in companies, able to put young people in comparison with the new challenges that the primary sector requires. The good school, with the obligation of alternation with the job, involves four hundred hours of concrete operation in the company. And this is a necessary condition for all students in general, but essential to the agri-food world. It is, therefore, even more reasonable and legitimate to envisage a strengthening and updating of the technological endowments that must be at the forefront in those companies which, especially those annexed to the schools, are a structural and intrinsic part of the institution itself. I would like to point out that I have tabled an agenda on this subject in order to try to equip schools with the necessary instruments. That is what we hope to do. It is still a big bet and challenge: Expo 2015 docet. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it to hand over the text of its speech to the documents. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u39	Madam President, before I begin my speech, I should like to know whether I should address the Government, in the person of Deputy Minister Olivero present in this House, or the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Policy, who has since disappeared.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u40	Senator Candiani, the government is present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u41	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Absolutely, but the absence of the Minister is not indifferent. Let's remember that we approved at first reading the measure under consideration in the absence of the Minister, and he still had to start Expo 2015. Madam President, it was 21 February 2014 when the then President of the Council of Ministers, Letta, presented the measure. By the way, reading the list of ministers who signed it, some names are no longer on the telephone list either. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I read: Letta, Moavero Milanesi, Delrio (he survived), D'Alia, Saccomanni, Cancellieri, Lupi, Giovannini, Lorenzin (if he got away), Zanonato, Orlando, Bonino, Alfano and Mauro. In some cases it really comes to say that the ones that go on are always the best. Madam President, we are here today to examine at second reading a measure dated 2014. And when it comes to agriculture, we are not referring, therefore, to the financial link of this year or the previous year, but to that of 2014. In other words, we are talking about something that we do not even remember the initial assumptions. I have one thing to say and I would have liked to turn to the Minister, who obviously finds it more convenient to stay elsewhere. The Minister had a great deal of nerve when yesterday, in an interview with the daily newspaper "Corriere della Sera" he came to bring this as an example of bicameralism that does not work and to make it a reason to argue that bicameralism is one of the evils that do not allow the rapid approval of the measures. Madam President, it should be remembered that, in the current Constitution, the Government, whenever it wishes, adopts decree-laws that are converted into law in sixty days. Why did the Renzi Government not want to invest seriously in agriculture and instead play to dust the measure under consideration, modifying it with interventions made first in the Senate, then in the Chamber of Deputies and, now, again in the Senate? The rapporteur and his colleagues in the majority are calling for the agenda to be adopted because, out of shame and shame, they know that after two years they cannot ask for a further amendment of the measure, even if in the meantime all the original shortcomings have emerged, which have become apparent over time. If you were there, I'd tell the minister something. Vice-Minister, do not feel bad about it, because it is not that I have no respect for you, on the contrary, I owe you a lot of respect because the attention you have always paid to our measures in the Commission and, in general, to agriculture is an honour to you. Unfortunately, the Minister of the Republic, who should play his part, is more accustomed to following Renzi's standard and, therefore, to turn to cut ribbons or participate in Coldiretti's conferences to take some applause during the elections. We must remind the Minister that - as a President of the United States said very wisely - all people can be deceived once and sometimes, but they cannot be deceived forever. So, in the end, the so-called reforms of the government, when they do not produce results, are no longer sustainable and become even more of a burden on the work of those who, in this case, deal with agriculture. The passage of time should have been opportunity of wisdom for the Government, which could have intervened with some decree-law to modify the twists or fill the gaps it left behind. Madam President, if, on 5 May of this year in front of the House and in the Senate, the farmers of CIA, Confagricoltura and Copagri had to be found again to say, once again, that bureaucracy stifles agriculture, it means that, since the procedure began (two years ago), everything that the Government has wavered as healthy changes for agriculture corresponds to a burdening of bureaucratic activity, which has been quantified in four billion euros per year. And, then, what are the blessed reforms that you boast about and which the Minister goes to the conferences to take credit, which are not there? Real reforms have a significant impact on costs By decreasing them. They do not reduce the cost of the producer, but increase the producer's ability to earn income. Today in Europe one out of every four farms closes every year. In Italy we are at 50%. The government goes to Europe and for the second year confirms the sanctions against Russia that impoverish our agriculture of 600 million euros. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] These are the things a minister should play his part in, instead of going to conventions to drink orange juice or cut ribbons. Let's be serious and talk about things that have content. In the same year, while in Italy real income per person employed in agriculture has fallen by 0.8, in Europe the average has risen by 34 percent. This is also the difficulty of competition between our producers and European producers. And even if the quality of our product came to our rescue, for too long we have been waiting by the government for serious policies in defence and protection of the product made in Italy. Let us remind the ghost minister, who is still not present in the Chamber, that if here, when we spoke of the law of European delegation, the opposition groups, the League in the lead, had not opposed, you would have approved a change to our regulations that wanted to change the determination of the original product by indicating on the packaging the country of last transformation. This was the crap you were doing if we weren't against each other. So what are you talking about agriculture as a competitive advantage for our farmers? It makes me laugh when I read what President Letta said. He said that you would give even more competitiveness to a crucial sector, especially in view of Expo 2015, whose themes were closely related to agriculture and land. President Letta also claimed that 2014 should have been the year in which the preparation for the Expo and the Italian agri-food industry should have produced the synergy necessary for their mutual success. Congratulations! You have succeeded in closing Expo and passing the European Semester without bringing this measure to an end. And I repeat - so that the citizens who listen to us know - that if the Government wants to, it issues decrees-laws that are converted into current Constitution law within sixty days. It is clear, however, that this measure has been used at every electoral deadline by promising farmers to approve it in order to provide a solution. The game can be done once, twice, but the third one is already abused of the good will and common sense of the people. I'd like to know if the government intends to move forward, waiting for our agriculture to be torn apart by CETA or TTIP. Once again, I address the absent Minister of Agriculture to say that while he was about to cut the ribbons of Coldiretti's conferences, his colleague, Mr Calenda, was at European level dealing with Juncker for the approval of CETA only at European level, cutting out the national parliaments. And when we asked for transparency on TTIP, where was the Minister of Agriculture? On these things we want transparency and, when there is no transparency, it means that the interest behind it is not that of the producers, it is not that of the citizens, but it is that of the lobbies that have to do with finance, and not with production. Once again, deception is turned into a mockery, because our farmers have no protection even compared to Made in Italy. During the journey to the Chamber, the article of the provision concerning food counterfeiting was deleted. At that stage it was said that the Caselli Commission had been set up, which should have given guidelines shortly. The time has passed and the Commission has finished its work, which has even become the subject of a bill by Senator Ruta, who in advance of wanting to sign. But none of this has been included in the measure. Then I ask you: what is the use of this sheet of paper? Deputy Minister Olivero will say that however there is the provision that concerns forestation, which is important. Bravo, you remembered the foresting. We are waiting for agriculture to disappear and, in the meantime, we are also projecting a beautiful film to show that you are in charge of protecting the nuns seals and we will be even happier and more satisfied and we will feel right with our conscience. Deputy Minister, we are talking about farmers who arrive every day in the evening without the certainty of getting up the next day having something else to work for, the land. This is what's happening. What you didn't do about AGEA. The other day the director resigned, but is this resignation enough to solve AGEA's problems? Let us remember that, in the period between 15 June and 11 July, our farmers - not because of them, but because of AGEA's responsibility - were unable to present the documents for the CAP and had reduced 1% per day. Of these things, who answers? Do you answer? Does the ghost minister reply, who is not there, who also shuns confrontation? I do not want to put this on your shoulders too, Deputy Minister Olivero, but that is the seriousness. You go be a minister, at least we'll have someone to talk to. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I don't want to wish her ill health, for God's sake. You see, President, I went to re-read the Reports of 7 May 2015 when the measure was approved at first reading. Senator Ruta, a leading major exponent to whom all my respect goes, stated: How long has there been no discussion of such a broad measure in the field of agriculture? Of course - as my colleague from the North League recalled just now - the link concerns the last financial, not the last, so it arrives with a year's delay. But it's two years late. It's been two years. And Senator Ruta was still praising Minister Martina, absent, and remembering that then of course measures of great attention should have come about, because this is not a law, not ended here. This is a law delegated to the Government. So let the farmers know that, once approved here, the government still has 12 months and more to issue the implementing decrees. So, once again I say to you: pay attention to the deceptions of the Government because, whenever they want, they make the decree-laws and are law immediately; when they do not care or use them as a scare, they become provisions that float for months, or years as in this case. Senator Bertuzzi - damn it - said that, for every euro of product made in Italy, there are at least two products that mimic the Italian product; that 35 are the billions of agri-food exports and 60 billions of Italian soiling. But what have you done to resolve the matter? Nothing. We're still waiting. He stated that the last linked to the Finance Act dates back to 2002, so in 2003, too after a year. Bravo, you made two. Leave or double: you even doubled. Finally - and I should like to conclude - there have also been facts which have been ridiculous. You have provided for such complications - in the specific case of milk, with regard to documentation to produce butter - so you had to put your hand in the House (this was in the original provision). As As Assolatte has stated directly, this recording system is only planned in Italy and the computerized system adopted turns out to be such a complication with respect to the paper procedures adopted until 2015 that it has obtained an opposite result compared to the principles of simplification. We're on the paradox. You have introduced new procedures that, even, complicate life more than those paperwork predicted. Goodness of God! At least on these points there was the possibility of a touch up to the House. For all the rest, however, we can only wish farmers a great deal of confidence and, as in the times of the earth, take it easy and, of course, wait for the government to change. In conclusion, you have amended the rules on the labelling of olive oil. Congratulations! On July 1, the president of Unaprol, Granieri, said: He wanted more caution. Now more controls in the large-scale distribution. They are realizing that the crap that goes on the shelves without even the deadline even risk jeopardising the credibility of the entire sector. Madam President, I would like to talk about rice, but we will do so in the course of the examination of the measure, during the debate on the amendments, which we already know will be rejected. We would like to talk about the necessary changes, support for the indica. Madam President, the price of the varietal group, as pointed out by the President of the Regional Federation of Lombardy Rice, Fulco Gallarati Scotti, has fallen. We've lost 53% of production in the last three years. The European Union continues to import rice from Cambodia and Myanmar, without any protection regarding the cost (which would also protect the territory), with unfair competition to the detriment of our companies. If all this isn't enough to prove that you've broken the target and, unfortunately, you've deceived, claiming that it was an important reform, then do it yourself. I have already pointed out that we will be waiting to see any amendments made to the text during the examination of the amendments before we give our final opinion on the measure. At least, however, I wish the presidency of the Senate: the Minister of Agriculture does so by Deputy Minister Olivero and the farmers finally have another Government to talk to. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Berger]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u42	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u43	Madam President, I too wanted to address the Minister. In the past, he was busy as an Expo doorman, and now he obviously has to do something else. Finally arrives in Assembela the connected to the financial 2013. Yes, you understand correctly: 2013. We could compare this measure to a freight train, a train that goes slowly, to which every stop is removed or added some wagon. He left on 21 February 2014, and then decided in the Bureau to proceed quickly, so as to conclude his examination before summer 2014. But in June 2014, red light, there is a coincidence to wait for. The train was coming (another decree-law of the Government) of high speed and competitiveness; train with various measures concerning the agricultural world, which would absorb some articles of the connected. Then, through accelerations and brakings, with deadlines for the submission of amendments continuously moved forward, we came to the end, not without having included in the attached numerous measures that had nothing to do with the original text. 8 paragraphs in Article 1 and Articles 2, 6, 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31 have been added. This shows that, if you wanted to, something better could have been inserted. The measure was then approved by the Senate on 13 May 2015. It is studied and revised in the Chamber and there approved on February 18, 2016. In addition to numerous paragraphs, Articles 2, 8, 11, 26, 27, 28 and 30 have been deleted from the Chamber to add Articles 2, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 40 and 41. And I stress Article 38, because it corrects Article 7 of Law No 221 of 28 December 2015. So, laws are made here, and after two months, they're corrected. Evidently it's all the Senate's fault, and that's why it needs to be reformed. You have no courage to say that it is the fruit of your inability. 18.15 p.m. (Following GAETTI). I would like to point out the fact, moreover already denounced, that the Government takes measures studied and analysed in the Commission, summarizes them in a few paragraphs, inserts them in the new text, thus rendering the legislative improvement incomprehensible. In this measure, which deals with many topics, you have decided to delete the article, very important, on logistics, an element of great importance for such a long country and for perishable goods such as foodstuffs. Privates invest in freight transport, e-commerce is growing, and you abandon strategic plans. Here I will just say two jokes about the former article 7 of the government's provision, approved by the Senate as article 9 and which, following the actual insertions, today is article 15. I recall that this article had been rewritten in the Senate Commission six times to arrive at the final version. It could therefore be considered that the problem has been dealt with in its entirety. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The text has been extensively amended in the House. It is an important article, as it delegates to the Government the reorganization of the participating bodies of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies. To the House has been added also the reorganization of the equestrian sector, as if it were a quisquilia, a cosuccia recently. It is interesting to read paragraph 2 (e) : I reorder the system of controls in the agro-food sector, in order to guarantee greater unity and effectiveness, also ensuring the necessary independence from the provider, with consequent rationalization or suppression of the company Agecontrol SpA, also through the transfer of ownership of the relative actions to the Ministry of agricultural policies or to agencies supervised by it, or its confluence in entities, companies or agencies supervised by the same Ministry. As I said a year ago, it would have been more decent to write that the government does what it wants. This article is a blank delegation to a government that has no ideas and it is even more surprising that, after two years of discussion, it has not understood what the solution of the problem is and does not give a precise line of direction. Personally, I consider it another missed opportunity: you should have created a single control center with the Forestry Corps, ICQRF and Agecontrol, in close connection with the controls carried out by the Ministry of Health. That the government has no ideas is understood by reading also the first lines of response to the urgent questioning to the Minister by the 5 Star Movement in the House, the act 2-00908 of last year, on the future of the relationship AGEA-SIN. A few months after the end of the SIN convention, no regulatory paths have yet been reached for the new race. I would like to point out that we have discussed this in the Commission for a year and a half, and on this subject the proposals of the 5 Star Movement are precise and put in black and white in the draft law No 1602, at my first signature. So - as you can see - we are also able to make proposals, not just protests, as you usually point out. I would like to comment on the current situation of AGEA, to stress how chronic disservice is and stigmatize the inability of the Ministry to put a piece in it. Already "The Daily Fact" of 13 April 2015 reports that the European Commission's Directorate-General for Agriculture has proposed a financial correction for the serious deficiencies contested by AGEA. On 24 February 2016, the European Commission sent a registered letter (No 956766 of 2016) to affix negative corrections (sanctions) to transfers of funds to Italy of EUR 158,738,428,33: the fact that these debts have not been recorded contributes further to DG AGRI's assertion that there is serious negligence in the management and registration of debts and irregularities by the AGEA paying agency. It also seems that there is a letter of objection in which Brussels would have pointed out 55,000 practices relating to funding allocated to farmers who were not entitled to it, and that this will cost us EUR 540 million. Deputy Minister, answers the truth of the existence of an internal document in AGEA in which all the separate financial corrections for decisions charged to Italy from the financial year 1999 to 2015 for a scandalous amount of 2,381,319,130,43, which would be the document that arrived to me? We are talking about withholding from the treasury for errors, false acts, lack of controls committed by AGEA, with the omerty of the Minister of Agricultural Policy. I would point out that milk quotas are not included in these figures; indeed, where there is milk quotas, they are positive corrections (so money that the Italian State has forfeited). It also emerges from the data in my possession that the deviations are constantly increasing, especially in the last two years, highlighting that the governance of the structure is not up to the situation: governance and leadership are not shining for transparency and capacity. We recall that three AGEA officials, for these facts, risk the process because, according to the prosecutor's argument, the suspects in the performance of their duties transmitted to the European Commission the statements of assurance relating to the annual accounts of the paying agencies, failing to inform the Commission itself of the actual number and the actual extent of the debit positions resulting from the undue disbursements and attaching to those declarations the certifications on the basis of data provided by them and not truthful. The crimes contested for these facts are ex officio and false abuse; crimes at risk of prescription for the law, but related to facts committed. I take the opportunity to ask the answer to the question I asked in the question time of February 12, 2015. In its 2011 judgment T-661, paragraph 135, it is clearly stated that Italy did not carry out the checks and that it cannot objectively determine that quantity. For this reason Italy has been fined for 70 million euros and the Minister has never told me who has to pay them: the Regions, who have not done the checks, or is it money that is stolen from the farmers? Vice Minister, already in the course of the previous discussion, I had long and pointfully highlighted the inconsistencies on the management of the last year of the milk quotas 2014-2015. I had shown mathematically that in Italy there are not enough cows to produce the quantity of milk allocated to us by Europe, all starting from certified data. I had also raised the incongruity of charging so much to a few farmers, rather than little to all those who had exceeded their quota in proportion to the alleged superproduction. I had used heavy words against the fact that Decree-Law No. 51 of 2015 changed the rules in the race, triggering your criticism. I complained because you were a ridge, like children: to pay the fine of 30 million euros, you demanded the payment of 100 million. I have never understood whether the 70 million difference would have entered the milk fund, to support the companies in difficulty that paid 100 - let me say this, this is brilliant - or if it would have been used to pay the 70 million fine for the failed checks I have mentioned before. On 25 May 2016, the judgment of the TAR of Parma No 184, which annuls AGEA's communication for two reasons, was published. The first is an excess of power in a number of respects, due to the unreasonableness of taxation and of the reference legislation, also in relation to the Commission's failure to give prior notice; secondly, similar defects in relation to the lack of any control of production, as required by Community rules. But there are two other considerations in the TAR ruling that deserve careful consideration: By collegial order No. 100 of 2016, also in the face of the incompleteness of the erarial defense (which made clear reference to other types of dispute). Yes, you have understood well: AGEA has defended itself incompletely, presenting to the material TAR related to other controversy and - hear, hear - a memory and a lately deposited relationship. And everyone knows that the acts submitted late at the TAR are null and void. Another passage of the judgment is really important: it takes on importance also the further argument contesting the change of criteria and rules of compensation in the closed year. I am not a man of law, but a pathologist, and there is satisfaction in seeing that my considerations, dictated by common sense alone, were shared by a court. Will those who have written and voted on such a decree have a whisper of conscience? It is interesting to note that the new Article 14 corrects Article 2 of Law No 91 of 2 July 2015, i.e. six months before; correction necessary after having had the rejection by the Ministry of Economic Development of the Ministerial Decrees of the Ministry of Agricultural and Forestry Policy for the distribution of the fund constituted with the aforementioned law. In fact, in circular No. 8231 of 27 April 2016 of the Ministry of Economics and Finance, with the object "Criteri di distribuzione e di utilizzamento delle reserve del Fondo per gli interventi nel settore nell'articolo 9, paradise 4 -quater del decreto-lege del 28 marzo 2003, n. 49', the note of the Department of the Accounting of the State n. 37294 of 21 April 2016, in which the interpretation of MIPAAF about the implementation of the fund is denied, requesting the replacement of paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 1. I have tried in these few lines to point out that an agency so important for the operation-financing of agriculture, which allocates 7 billion euros per year of European funds (CAP), is in disarray, and I have not talked about the delays in payments so as not to increase, as Mr Candiani has done before. But what is worse is that, despite the fact that it has been known for years, the Government does not intervene, it blocks Parliament's activity with decrees and related, ignoring the cries of pain in the dairy and pig sectors, which are in great difficulty and are the subject of unnecessary measures, which do not in any way interest our farmers. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u44	Senator Ruta is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u45	Mr President, after listening carefully to the previous speakers and to the rapporteur for the measure, I believe that some considerations must be made. In the meantime, I want to say that the government has done some things for agriculture, which we are proud of and I think we should be proud of as a country system. For example, the government has taken with conviction the choice to remove the agricultural IMU and other taxes pertaining to the world of agriculture, allowing an advantage of competitiveness to Italian farmers. This is a result, due to who these battles wanted to do to the end. It is true that in connection with our examination some contents are not there and have been removed, but this is due to the fact that - as my colleagues who preceded me well know, Senators Candiani and Gaetti, but also Senator Ruvolo, who will intervene after me - some parts of the connected have been inserted in Decree-Law No 91 of 2014, the so-called decree-competitiveness law. And it was done because it would have been done sooner, just to meet the need for timeliness that was well remembered by Senator Candiani and that I recognize to be a real theme for some issues. And I come to the merit, without forgetting that some of those measures have already been approved and are already Italian State law, precisely because together we decided to move them into the decree-competitiveness law. It is true that the related agriculture has been partly a bit degraded in its role and content, because in part we have included them in the aforementioned measure, but some measures have remained and certainly some of them should have had a different timing. I would like to make this clear to Mr Vice-Minister, who is a good representative of the Government here. The agricultural sector is a world that wants to run and, in particular, the new generations want to run to ensure that the food supply chains draw more and more and help Italy, in exports and in gross domestic product. Agriculture already does, but it can do more and better. I now come to list some issues and critical issues. In the link there are certainly some rules of simplification in the matter of controls, but they must be added to those, very important, contained in Decree-Law No 91 of 2014. In particular, I remind myself of the establishment of the single register of controls for agricultural enterprises, which was a success and not a accident in history or something that happened by chance. This was a safe and important result for owners of olive groves and for those who had obligations in the field of fire prevention and attribution of the right of pre-emption to farmers. Simplifying the establishment of protection consortia for agri-food products and PDO and PGI wines, passports for bovine animals, etc. In addition, there is an obligation to provide, in the statute of protection consortia, that the division of directors to be elected should be carried out in such a way as to ensure gender balance. It also contains provisions on servitude, establishing that owners of private roads should allow the passage of gas pipelines and for the transmission of geothermal energy, in order to allow the connection to the gas network of domestic or farm users. There is also a reduction in the time limits for administrative procedures relating to the exercise of agricultural activities. There is delegation to the Government for the reorganization and simplification, through the collection of rules in a single agricultural code and in any single texts of the rules in force in this matter. Think that there is no rules in Italy for a farmer! Therefore, having a single text in agriculture is a very shared and shared need; I say this for the Agriculture Commission which has examined it. Of course even in this case the times must be much faster, because we are granting a delegation, we must study the single text and so on. The time lost in the passage between the Senate and the House has been exaggeratedly long, but Article 6 delegates the Government in the matter of support companies for agricultural land, in order to promote the generational change and the development of youth entrepreneurship in agriculture, through the preparation of rules on the forms of association between elderly farmers or pensioners and young people not owners of agricultural land; in order to provide criteria for the allocation of concessions and tax reliefs to facilitate the process, define ways of conclusion, and to establish the forms of sharing with the profits proper to the societies of support for agricultural land. The measure also contains provisions to support organic agriculture and aquaculture, through the establishment of the organic information system, for the management of administrative procedures of operators and control bodies relating to organic agriculture and aquaculture. There are provisions on expropriation allowances in storage; as regards the maintenance of public or private green, it is provided that, if it is entrusted to third parties, it may be exercised only by the members of the Official Register of Producers, by agricultural, craft or industrial undertakings in cooperative form. With regard to the delegation to the Government for the reorganization of the agencies, companies and agencies supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, it must be said that progress has already been made, but it is clear that in this case too we must run. In this regard, I appeal to the Government not to use entirely the year of delegation granted and rather to individuals a form to concentrate everything in the next ninety days, at most in six months and not - I repeat - in a whole year. Starting with the conclusion, the measure still provides for the establishment of the Agricultural Land Bank at ISMEA, with the aim of establishing a complete inventory of the demand and supply of land and agricultural holdings accessible on the ISMEA website for registered users. Information is provided on the natural, structural and infrastructural characteristics of the land, on the procedures for access to facilities, on any land recomposition programmes and projects submitted by ISMEA. Financial assistance is provided to support agricultural enterprises, fisheries and aquaculture. ISMEA operates both as a minority member by signing capital increases in companies operating in the processing and marketing of agricultural products, fisheries and aquaculture, but also through interventions on conditions facilitated by the granting of loans. I would like to make one last point and point out that in the European delegation law - and I say this also in future memory - the Government in this House has deleted Article 3 as regards labelling and the information given in the labels of our foods, pursuant to the amendment that I tabled as other groups of the minority or the opposition have done, so I imagine that the government is going in that direction having proceeded with the deletion. In the same way, I would like to remind you that today, in the United Commissions 9a and 13a of the Senate, the measure on the containment of soil consumption has been scheduled, which represents an extraordinary opportunity since every day 55 hectares of land are consumed and taken away from agriculture, and the other bill of which I am the first signatory in the area of agri-food crimes. I believe that it is appropriate to combine the two issues, because they are two sides of the same coin, together with the link and the elimination of taxes on agriculture. These arguments must be dealt with with with courage and determination. Soil consumption requires more courage and determination in the choices, because we are devastating national territory and continuing to eat land for agriculture. If we do the same with counterfeiting, Italian soiling and especially with those that produce things that are not really Italian, defending Italian agriculture and who transforms Italian products, making an excellent service to Made in Italy (the one that the world is hungry for), if we do this all together, in a concrete and real time, I believe that this House and this Parliament will be able to be proud of the work done. Today we are writing a significant and important page, although not the most significant in this legislature, in favour of the so-called primary sector. It is called primary precisely because it responds to the primordial needs of man: those of sustenance and being able to live well on this planet. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruvolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u47	Mr President, after listening to the rapporteur and colleagues in this debate, a somewhat contradictory fact emerges. On the one hand, the legislative process has been highlighted as complex and in a very long period of time. I remember perfectly when this measure came to our examination, in March 2014, and I remember that a good job was done; I then voted stubbornly against, for the reasons I had declined on that occasion. In the end, the text that was fired by this Assembly in May 2015 could also be sufficient. In the passage to the House - I say this especially for those who do not follow the work of the agricultural sector - that text has been altered. And when he returned to the committee of merit in the Senate, I argued that it was no longer the text we had sent to the Chamber of Deputies, but it was another. So I asked the Vice Minister and the President of the Commission to start a series of hearings, to better understand and deepen completely new topics compared to the previous text. It is clear that there is the greatest respect for the work done by my fellow Members, but the text remains completely distorted. In order to give you confidence in what we are talking about, I would point out that ten articles have been deleted from the previous text, six new articles have been added and at least fifteen have been amended. I don't know what I need to talk about. We thought that the government would clarify the reasons for these choices; one of these reasons, for example, could be due to the fact that the text returned to the Senate after two years, during which certain facts had taken place, and therefore it needed to be radically modified. But it does not seem to me that there have been dramatic events in the agricultural world, absolutely not; indeed the demand - indeed, for colleagues who have spoken before me - was to do so quickly, in order to give immediate answers to the agricultural sector. No, the measure has been frozen for a year (I do not know which drawer) and, by chance, we must now run without giving the Commission the opportunity to enter into the substance. President Formigoni, rapporteur for the measure, has done well to say that in the Commission many meetings have been devoted to examining the measure, and yet, once we have arrived, you have only made us run. But for what? For what reason? This measure will mark the lives of farmers. I hope that at least you'll let me through this quietly. We are delegating the government (which will have all the time) to take the concrete measures by completely rejecting the Commission and then the House, in my view. Before we go into the substance, I repeat that there have been deleted, amended and added articles, and we are now examining a text which is radically different from the original text. I come to the merits of some of them and some of them to simplify. Article 9 concerns provisions on expropriation allowances to provincial treasures for lack of communication to expropriates. Basically this article, shared by the Government and the majority, gives the possibility to delegate the most representative agricultural professional organizations at national level (we will then open a parenthesis on professional organizations) to represent, or in any case to stimulate those who have not had the time or the possibility, for different reasons, in terms of the sums, that remain in the provincial treasures of the State. It's a perfectly normal operation. I wonder something. On this I have never been heard and I hope to be understood now in this House: would it not be appropriate to delegate the municipalities where the expropriations took place to notify, solicit and intervene and, where these amounts are not available for some reason (in the sense that someone did not show up), to have them collected directly from the municipalities, seen and appreciated the conditions in which they are placed, and to direct them to the agricultural sector? [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] Why are professional organizations called into question? I really want this to be explained: I don't want it, but I do. Why do professional organisations receive substantial sums? I don't want to go any further today, and I hope you don't put me in a position to do it. In order to do someone the favor, should we also add the courtesy of dealing with the sums lying in provincial treasures? But what way is this? Of course, to come to an assembly of a professional organization to make some concessions - let's put it this way - and to receive the applause is something that pleases everyone (I would do so too). Then, however, there is nothing concretely within that statement. Not to mention, then, the vigilante bodies. This is a battle we have fought in the Commission and in this House. Tell us what you want to do with these vigilantes. You've gone from reduction to reordering, which is fine with us. You went from reduction when we were all talking about spending review (now no more) to reordering through skills. And then in a text it is imposed by the Government to have precise connotations, which I will have the opportunity to explain when the amendments will be dealt with. With regard to the system of controls, always on the supervised bodies, it is okay that Agecontrol does a different job than the current one. Is it not possible to make a single body out of all other control bodies? You can call it an agency or whatever you like. In an agricultural undertaking - then I will come to Mr Ruta's joke too - six or seven forms of control occur and nobody knows how to behave because each goes for something different from the other. Is it possible to continue in this way? I'd pay attention to that. I am not talking about the horse, the AGEA and the appointments made yesterday morning of people who were sent home the next day. What's wrong with AGEA? It is managing EUR 11 billion a year and not candy, and also the survival or not of agricultural enterprises. You deleted in Title IV the article on fisheries and aquaculture. We in the AL-A Group want to participate responsibly in the future of Italian agriculture with a fair and true confrontation. No one can impose on us times and races. With this measure, which is for me the most important act for Italian agriculture, we want to understand what type of agriculture and what model of agriculture we choose to face the challenges in the world. We have tabled a few responsible amendments. I hope that the Government will be able to accept this proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, a year ago this measure had lost many of its qualifying points on the streets, which had been transferred to other measures, starting with the Competitiveness Act. During the first reading I pointed out that this progressive emptying had caused the organicity and impact measure to be lost. That is why I have shared with my colleagues in the House the opportunity to introduce a whole series of changes that have given impetus to the measure, in particular on the ground of bureaucratic simplification and attention to small sectors that, in my opinion, deserve great attention, also for the function of protecting biodiversity and of useful integration to corporate income. The text we are debating offers a more comprehensive picture that is not limited to traditional crops, but also addresses areas that have valuable environmental, social and cultural implications. I am thinking of Article 5, with the inclusion of forestry and forestry sectors in the delegation to the Government for a legislative decree to simplify the legislation. I am thinking of the new Article 6, which emphasizes the issue of the generational change and the entry of those younger generations that today look with renewed attention to an area in which they can bring not only specialist skills for the improvement and the qualitative increase of production, but also knowledge and skills to convey new and healthier lifestyles and food consumption. I am thinking of the novelties introduced in Article 15 on the reorganization of bodies and agencies, which must be rethought in order to offer better services and overcome that hateful practice of the same control carried out several times by different subjects, with relative expenditure of resources and time by both companies and the State. And, again in Article 15, the possibility of integrating state funding aimed at the management activities of genealogical books, with sources of self-financing of recognized associations, in particular those of the native mountain breeds, all with the aim of genetic improvement, but also of safeguarding biodiversity. It is also important to include in Article 21 the damage caused by wildlife among the compensation provided for farmers, together with those resulting from adverse weather conditions, animal diseases and diseases. But we also appreciate paragraph 2 of Article 12, which gives the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces the modalities of discipline for training courses and related certificates of suitability for those third parties to whom the maintenance and accommodation of the public and private green can be entrusted. Finally, we agree with all the rules introduced by Articles 33, 34, 35 and 36, which concern the production of butter, beekeeping, craft beers and the production of hops: smaller sectors, if we limit ourselves to the volume of production, but which contribute to raising the quality and strengthening the image of our agricultural offer, including from the tourist point of view. In Trentino there are now about twenty companies that produce craft beer, with products of absolute quality, a festival dedicated to several young people who, in this way, are experiencing an important experience from the point of view of work or small business. Consumers' attention is also increasing. 18.51 p.m. (Follow PANIZE). Therefore it is an area to be looked at with interest, also because, as we know, there are also studies behind us and, in some cases, an operation to recover ancient traditions on fermentation. In this sense, the cultivation of hops can also be a possibility for the recovery of a whole range of uncultivated or abandoned land, especially in the high mountain areas. But this of hops is just an example of the attention that small realities deserve, where the multifunctional approach must be increasingly promoted. At this point, the agriturismo sector is strategic, because it offers an emotional experience to tourists and guests, because it strengthens the sense of identity and belonging to a community, but also because it contributes, when tourists and customers return home, to propose and consume again the products they have known on the territory, together with their production experience and the culture they express. In this House and in the Commission I have spoken several times about the importance of mountain agriculture as an antidote to depopulation, as an instrument for the protection of biodiversity, for the prevention of hydrogeological failure, for the full exploitation of the ethnographic, naturalistic and landscape heritage of the mountains. Mountain agriculture is fundamental for social cohesion, for the vitality of a territory, for its tourist development, for the possibility, through the specificity of productions, to give a strong recognition in terms of marketing. In this respect, we await the implementation of the social farming measure. But above all we believe that all policies for mountain agriculture must help companies to earn income, by cutting costs, by simplifying bureaucracy, by increasing access for young people, even in part-time ways, because if they do not earn and cannot invest, unfortunately, companies die and young people leave. The bureaucratic simplification must remain one of the focal points of all our legislative interventions, starting with the future legislative decrees linked to Articles 5, 6 and 15 of this measure. Let us not forget, every time we introduce a new rule, even when it is motivated by the best intentions, for small companies it translates into a load of bureaucracy and fulfillment that take away time and resources to work and production or, worse still, they do not support companies. I also want to mention the regulation of pesticides, which is becoming increasingly important. I believe that we need to work very carefully, because it is absolutely necessary to reduce its use, both because the market rightly goes in the direction of products that meet certain standards during cultivation, and in order to protect the health of the consumer, but also of farmers, because of the prolonged exposure to these products. But let us not forget that, in some specific cases, there is also a question of costs, which in some ways must be compensated for if we want the use of pesticides to be reduced to the strictest necessary. However, there may be situations in which it is necessary to resort to the elimination of parasites and the preservation of the harvest. On the small fruits we live in these weeks in Trentino the rapid and dangerous spread of drosophila suzukii, a fly that, due to the low temperatures and the high humidity rate, is finding the ideal climate for its diffusion. The allowed plant protection treatments are not able to solve the problem, while the use until the last years of other products authorized in exceptional way allowed the control of the insect. It is just an example, but it makes good the idea of the need to open time windows, completely exceptional and linked to specific situations, in which it must be allowed the use of products that can save crops without compromising their health. The time has come for a radical reform in the field of research. Much has been spent in these years, with results that are not always up to the resources employed. The various structures must be linked, aiming at effectiveness and results. We need, in one word, to make a system. Just as the fight against the counterfeiting of our agri-food is becoming increasingly important, which is a huge damage to companies, to the treasury, to the image of our country and our territories. Europe, also in this area, continues to appear as a vexatory institution, with its continuous bureaucratic Diktat, but, above all, far from the problems and needs of the sector. Let us think of the abolition of milk quotas, but let us also think of the hypothesis on which we had been thinking in Brussels, fortunately averted, to liberalise the use of the names of wines that would open a motorway to the counterfeiting of our finest brands. A theme, that of the fight against counterfeiting and the traceability of the history of the product, on which the professional organizations have spent a lot, even with significant demonstrations, such as those on the Brenner, on which Europe must also be more diligent in giving answers to our country. On all these issues, as self-employed Trentino, we presented a programme document to the Minister, with a whole series of concrete proposals for bureaucratic simplification and the enhancement of the sector. Because the agenda of priorities is very long, and it is certainly not exhausted with this measure or with those, although important, that have been approved since the beginning of the parliamentary term. In order to return to the colleague, now that we are finally in the right direction of arrival even in a text completely upset compared to the initial one, I believe that he should be recognized two merits. The first is to have, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, placed the agricultural theme as one of the strategic themes for the revival of our economy, helping it to get out of that marginality in which at some point it had fallen. The second is to have recovered, with a stroke of kidneys, an overall view also on the social, environmental, I would say cultural, aspects of the sector. At the end of this long journey, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Formigoni, the members of the 9th Commission, the representatives of the Government, in particular the Deputy Minister Olivero, who has followed the whole process of the measure and the professional organizations, for the cooperative spirit that has always animated our discussions and our work. A spirit which, I am sure, will also be maintained in the next measures that await us, and which are of great importance, if we really want this legislature to leave a tangible and concrete mark on the sector. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Formigoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u49	She is registered to speak Senator Valdinosis. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to stress that the provisions of the draft law we are debating today are very important, because they give concrete answers and intervene on many important aspects of the agricultural sector, introducing significant changes, simplifications and innovations. I am thinking of Article 6, which regulates the forms of support between over 60-year-old farmers or pensioners and young people, in order to stimulate the generational shift that agriculture needs so much to increase its competitive potential. A provision that is even more important and urgent, in the light of the ISTAT report on the state of health of Italian agriculture, from which emerge the critical issues and the persistence of serious problems that grip our agriculture. I mention only two of them, those which, in my opinion, represent the two main problems, which are closely related to each other. On the one hand, the fact that the value of products comes to a very large extent to the processing and distribution industry; on the other hand, the continuing decline in numbers of young farmers. Every initiative to promote the entry of young people into agriculture must therefore be put in place and the measure envisaged in this measure goes in this direction. I am also thinking of the introduction of the Bank for Agricultural Lands at the ISMEA (Institute of Services for the Agricultural Food Market) to better coordinate the path already undertaken at regional level, such as, for example, in Emilia-Romagna, where a specific draft law has been presented on this subject, aimed at the use of uncultivated or abandoned land for productive purposes. I also think that the simplification introduced for the networks of enterprises formed in the form of contractual networks is very important; a simplification that can encourage our companies to organise themselves together, thereby promoting synergies in order to innovate and compete. So far 2,500 contracts have been concluded: more than 400 of them concern the agri-food sector, with almost 1,500 companies involved, in the milk sector, in fruit and vegetables, in precision agriculture and in agritourism. These are positive practices which, thanks to the simplifications introduced by this measure, can be extended and extended. The answer given to certain sectors, such as horseback riding, which is in a very difficult situation, is very important. With the delegation to the Government for the reform of the national equestrian system, the Executive is committed to act urgently to ensure a new form of governance capable of relaunching a sector that in our country can count, as well as a great tradition, on a large heritage of races, skills and dedicated structures. With regard to new supply chains, I would like to stress the positive nature of the intervention which tends to accompany the growth of a new supply chain which is experiencing a good commercial expansion. I am referring to the growth - not only in quantitative but also qualitative terms - of the Italian breweries that produce beer using an artisanal method. The link fills a legislative gap, introducing a definition that will allow the allocation of the attribute of craft beer, indispensable for the full valorization of this product. This is also the direction of action to promote, with specific funding, the cultivation of the raw material, with the start of research projects for the production of hops and the reconstitution of their genetic heritage. Very positive is the support to the short supply chain and organic, a way of doing agriculture that combines environmental sustainability, health and value of agricultural work. Finally, I would like to mention a rule which introduces the principle of gender balance for the administrators of these consortia in the framework of representation in the protection consortia. In this area of representation too, therefore, we are starting a gradual process which, taking into account the nature and peculiarities of the associations representatives, will ensure a significant contribution and - I am convinced of this - of value on the part of women who are still under-represented today. I make one final and general consideration. In this parliamentary term, a great deal of attention has been devoted to agriculture, which has long deserved attention. To sum up, I would like to mention a number of measures that we have had the opportunity to examine and approve in this House: from the competitiveness decree-law to the revival of sectors in crisis, to the issue of the reorganisation of bodies and relations within the supply chains. Moreover, the rules contained in the last Stability Act were very important: the elimination of IRAP and IMU on agricultural land. This has to be done by the Government, the Minister Martina, the Deputy Minister Olivero, as well as the work of colleagues from the Agriculture Committee. The great attention to the agricultural sector in this legislature has promoted important interventions to promote its growth in quantitative and qualitative terms, and to give important responses also in the social field. I would remind you of the draft law on social agriculture. Agriculture is an area on which to focus decisively, has a great potential for growth and is an indispensable element for the development of our territories. It can represent - and recent data on the increase in employment in the sector confirm this, as well as data on value for agri-food exports - a strategic sector to increase employment, particularly young people. This is why we need to provide adequate tools and improve them: training, access to land and credit. This is why rural development programmes, which have measures to encourage the establishment of young people, must be used to the best of their ability in the territories. Finally, we must always remember that agriculture is an indispensable garrison for the maintenance and protection of the territory, that territory that is an expression of the cultural, landscape and environmental value of our country; an agricultural territory, in which is developing an offer of important tourism that focuses more and more on the combination of landscape and food and wine, which are the hallmark of a good agriculture. A good agriculture, which with this measure we want to encourage and help, with a package of measures that have very concrete objectives: to simplify, innovate, reorganize and support. Action is needed to better address the enormous challenges and problems associated with international competitiveness, which put our companies in difficulty, which is why we need to be more and better supported. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u51	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u52	Mr President, a measure that has been declared linked to the financial maneuver of 2014 comes to an end today, a long path which, precisely because of the long period that has elapsed, should have had the opportunity to put measures in place that could really re-launch agriculture. The agricultural sector of our country faces what was to be a decisive year for its development, with the pull of what should have been the Expo of Milan, but in a context strongly compromised by the too many sector crises and the absence of a clear direction of national agricultural policy, with serious repercussions on its profitability. The great potential of the Italian agricultural and agri-food product in the world is, in fact, strongly limited precisely by the political inability, now ten years old, to express clear guidelines in support of strategic sectors that suffer, with increasing evidence, international competition. Some crucial sectors for our country's food model are in great difficulty. In increasing suffering are the fruit and vegetable companies, exposed to the dynamism of Spanish and North African exports; the milk and beef sector, with a drastic reduction of the active farms; the cereal sector, which progressively reduces the contribution of national production; the olive sector, also because of the phytopathology that is affecting Puglia, to which, even in this measure, it has not wanted to give an effective response. I would urge the Minister and the representatives of the Government to give appropriate critical consideration to this matter, because it is no longer acceptable to underestimate this emergency for agriculture and the environment, which is likely to upset forever a landscape, an economy and a structural culture for most of our country. Difficulties that certainly originate from the growing international competition, but also from reasons more specifically related to the structural conditions of the sector in our country. I am referring in particular to the continuing gap between highly fragmented agricultural production, where the small family farm still prevails, and a much more strongly organized distribution, where five large platforms - five! - determine more than 70% of food purchases, with the obvious consequences in terms of power imbalance. In practice, the added value of production tends constantly to shift from production to distribution, with farmers now facing ever narrower, insufficient margins of profitability and, in some cases - I am referring in particular to the milk sector - non-existent. In order to cope with the crisis and restore momentum to the agricultural economy, we need a clear direction and a clear project which, objectively, we cannot really trace in this measure, which we could define without infamy and without praise. The related agricultural bill was born with other ambitions - at least as you said, colleagues of the majority - while the concrete content that we are preparing to vote on today, despite some efforts actually made in the Commission, at first reading, does not present the organic nature that was desirable. We are faced with a set of riffazzonati norms, in some cases confused, once again without a guiding thread and a direction of univocal march. The first part of the measure presents some interesting ideas on bureaucratic simplification, which, however, run the risk of being thwarted by the transposition procedures decided upon for the reform of the common agricultural policy, where serious bureaucratic burdens for farmers are expected. Once again, on this crucial point, there is a lack of opportunity to streamline the administrative and fiscal requirements of farmers and their relationship with paying agencies. Certainly more innovative and interesting are some elements introduced in the Commission and during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, such as the establishment of the Bank of Agricultural Lands and the new provisions defining craft beer, a phenomenon which is growing and of course also of interest to agricultural enterprises. The specific rules concerning the tomato and rice sector are also important. On the other hand, during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, our amendment establishing Article 11 concerning the modernisation of logistics for the agro-food sector was deleted. We hope that the Government will return as soon as possible to this issue, as the modernisation of the wholesale market network, transport and logistic platforms for the export of our products is a decisive factor, also in order to defeat those eco-afes, which precisely on the backwardness of agri-food transport have built their control over the supply chains. We have also proposed, both in the Commission and in this House, without meeting the majority's consent, an intervention in favour of the sectoral plans, already approved by the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, which concern sectors of strategic importance, without any appreciable results, in the absence of an adequate funding fund. In addition, a proposal from the Commission aimed at addressing the problem of abandoning agricultural activity in the country's internal areas, one of the most worrying phenomena not only for the overall maintenance of the sector, but, in particular, for the obvious consequences on the hydrogeological structure of the country, resulting from the interruption of the continuous maintenance activities of the territory historically ensured by the farmers. Wildlife damage to the agricultural sector, largely attributable to the spread of wild boar, continues to be a source of risk to the sector and an occasion for conflict between farmers and local authorities, with particular reference to protected natural areas. On this too we have urged and continue to call for prompt intervention by the Government, in the face of the growing difficulties that are being pointed out by the agricultural professional organizations, which takes into account the need to strengthen damage prevention actions. Finally, we hope that the question of the caporalate, which is currently the subject of a specific draft law under consideration by the Agriculture Commission, will be properly and urgently addressed, on which we have a total delay of interpretation and intervention, which could lead us to see another harvest season without the means of prevention and control needed to eradicate the phenomenon from our campaigns. In conclusion, this measure, which, I repeat, appears without infamy and without praise, is in our opinion in no way capable of giving effective answers to a sector which, despite the serious problems, is one of the few that it has held in this crisis situation and which would have needed an opportunity to relaunch and intervene. We therefore urge the Government to open up other spaces for discussion and initiative in favour of Italian agriculture in the framework of the decree-law already examined by the Council of Ministers on the issue of milk and in the context of the next maneuver of public finance. We at the Italian Left also believe that it is necessary to reiterate clearly the Italian position on genetically modified organisms and their use in agriculture, on which we register again in the Government misunderstanding positions, which can give space to those who want to call into question a precautionary approach taken with the full consent of the national agricultural world. We will therefore continue to press the Government in the belief that the difficulties of the agricultural sector require much more support, including financial support. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u53	Senator Dalla Tor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u54	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the House is today examining an organic measure for the agricultural sector, which offers concrete answers to some important sectors in difficulty and accompanies and better defines the process of innovation and simplification of the primary production sector, which started since the beginning of the parliamentary term. This is, for Italian agriculture, a historic legislature, characterized by a great protagonism of Parliament and the Government in favour of the primary sector. The attention devoted to this sector stems from the awareness that agriculture is an area with extraordinary potential, but that, at the same time, it is facing major problems linked to an increasingly freer international competitiveness and therefore increasingly aggressive towards our companies. It is an area gripped by a bureaucracy context that in many cases very blocks its expressive capacity; it is an area that has many complexities and also many weaknesses related to history that has so far characterized its becoming. The agricultural sector has played an important role in the country's economy and development in recent years and now, thanks also to the measures contained in the law of stability for 2016, it has almost a billion resources: a great opportunity to strengthen and strengthen supply chains, increasing their quality through crops increasingly sustainable and attentive to the interest of the consumer. From this perspective there is the significant recovery of the national agricultural sector, highlighted above all by the increase in agri-food exports. This is an important result, which rewards the efforts of farmers who have been able to resist the great economic crisis, hooking up the recovery well before other economic and productive sectors: just think that in the last year the Italian wine has exceeded in quantity and quality the French wine. The main guidelines that have guided our legislative work on agriculture can be summarised in a few words: bureaucratic simplification, tax reduction, access to credit, support for work in agriculture, generational replacement, strengthening of the productive fabric and competitiveness. Turning to the substance of the measure, I would first like to mention the fruitful and extraordinary work done by the Senate at first reading. On this occasion, we have defined extremely innovative and relevant provisions for agriculture: I am thinking of Article 6, which regulates the forms of support between over 60-year-old farmers or pensioners and young people, in order to stimulate the generational shift that agriculture needs so much to increase its competitive potential. I am also thinking of the introduction of the agricultural land bank at ISMEA, in order to better coordinate the process already undertaken in the regional context aimed at the use of uncultivated or abandoned land for productive purposes. The House has approved corrective measures and appropriate adjustments due to the concatenation in these months of approved legislative measures that have directly or indirectly affected the sector, in order to prevent overlaps, inconsistencies or conflicts with other reforms put in place in the meantime. For this reason, the House of Deputies considered that the revision of the criminal rules on counterfeiting should necessarily be coordinated with the work that the Study Committee on the Reform of Agri-food Crimes, set up at the Ministry of Justice, began to carry out and therefore deleted Article 2 of the text which was fired at first reading. Similarly, Articles 8 and 11 have been deleted because, by intervening in subcontracting and logistics in the agri-food sector, they necessarily require coordination with the reform of the recently approved procurement code. With regard to the provisions on fisheries and aquaculture, it was necessary to maintain only the provisions on sanctions for illegal fishing, which were of an extremely urgent nature in order to resolve the dispute which opened with Brussels on, for example, the catching of clams (we know that today the measure that reduced the size to 22 mm has been approved). The other necessary provisions will be the subject of further study and evaluation in the context of the examination of a specific measure on the fish supply chain, the process of which is already at an advanced stage at the other branch of Parliament. On the contrary, specific sanctions for poaching in inland waters have been introduced, in a speculative way compared to illegal fishing in marine waters: a topic very dear to the various political forces, which has found a point of historic solution. It is also important to stress that a delegation to the Government for the reform of the national horse system has been included. The sector is in a situation of serious difficulty and, in order not to disperse the great heritage of races and skills that characterizes the supply chain, it is necessary to move urgently, in order to ensure a new and inclusive form of governance, capable of raising and relaunching the sector. Another important intervention is that concerning the craft beer sector, that is that produced by small independent breweries and not subjected, during the production phase, to pasteurization and microfiltration processes. Let's think of the extraordinary experience of many Italian breweries (by now we are almost nine hundred), which have first experienced and then launched on the market the new product of beer obtained by handmade method. Many small national producers have achieved extraordinary success in recent years, promoting in fact also the beginning of a movement such as the alogastronomical one, which seems to stimulate in a qualified way also the development of tourism. To date there was no legislative definition that would allow them to define the craft attribute: with the connected we have filled this gap, laying the foundations for further and effective exploitation, which I hope will happen as soon as possible. The production of beer, in particular craft beer, then suffers in our country from the lack of raw material: every possible expansion of the sector therefore requires the start of research projects for the production of hops, also through the reconstitution of its genetic heritage and the identification of correct mechanization processes. In this respect, the link provides for specific funding for the cultivation of hops. Another important issue is the need for the beekeeping sector to have a system of reliable product recognition. To this end, while we have approved significant changes in the beekeeping sector, we have introduced some simplifications and sanctions for those who do not report the holding of hives in the beekeeping register. We have valued the rice supply chain, also as an expression of the cultural, landscape and environmental value of a territory, protecting its typical varieties, guaranteeing quality and traceability and providing for the possible revision of the legislation established by the National Laughter Board in the framework of the delegation to the Government. We have also introduced the principle of gender balance also for administrators of protection consortia, providing for a gradual approach that takes into account the nature and peculiarities of the associations' representations, also in relation to the character of the expressions. Finally, we have made it possible to achieve greater transparency in the livestock system. Finally, I would like to highlight a rule that is not exactly agricultural (I like to call it collateral) but that has found room in this measure: it is the rule that somehow allows cracks, prunings and straw to be used not as waste, but as resources for the production of energy from renewable sources. Well, this is a rule of extraordinary civilization, as well as of substance, because it will allow the municipalities, or citizens, to save valuable resources. As I have tried to illustrate, albeit briefly, it is a measure rich in content, elaborated and improved by both branches of Parliament, whose approval will give further thrust to a sector in constant growth and towards which to focus attention in the near future for a sustainable growth of our country. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scoma. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u56	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a measure which, according to the proposers, has been designed to make the agricultural sector simpler and, therefore, more streamlined, faster and probably even more competitive, but which, in reality, only makes it even more twisted, complicated and probably even archaic. It is only to be thought that there are provisions on the production of craft beer, the name of the cardoncello mushroom, the reorganization of the horse sector and numerous delegations to the Government for the relaunch of certain key sectors and even the introduction of gender equality in the protection consortia. At first reading in this House, I had the opportunity to declare Forza Italia's vote against the original draft law, which was subsequently amended by the Chamber of Deputies. At the time, we felt that this text was not suitable for relaunching the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, as almost all the provisions increased the bureaucratic burden by far. Today as yesterday, my judgment does not deviate from the previous one. It is difficult to find even one provision that goes in the direction of redevelopment and simplification of the agricultural sector. The choice that the legislator has made, i.e. to multiply compliances rather than reduce them, introduce new limitations and prohibitions rather than remove them and include delegations on delegations to the Government instead of simplifying the legislation, is totally contrary to the objectives that had been set. The agricultural sector and, more generally, all the areas on which the measure affects, are of great importance to our economy and we should never, in any way, discourage its development. A streamlined, bureaucraticised, entrepreneurial initiative should be encouraged and a simple, streamlined, fair and fast tax system should be provided. The draft law in question contradicts in all its parts the recipes of the liberal economy, aimed at supporting private initiative and economic growth. It is an Italy that, with all the laws produced, has stifled the good will of millions of citizens who, with their hard work, would certainly have contributed to the growth of our country. Not only does such a high degree of bureaucracy merely make the ground more and more fertile for the taking and spreading of the evil, but the referendum of a few days ago of the British people for the exit of Britain from the European Union represents nothing more than the clear opposition to this type of management of the state machine which, by introducing new limits and prohibitions, instead of reducing or eliminating them, and by including delegations on delegations to the government instead of simplifying the legislation, is totally contrary to the objective set. The agricultural sector and, more generally, all the areas on which the measure affects are of great importance to our economy and we should in no way discourage its development. The business initiative should be streamlined, deburred and encouraged and, therefore, a simple and fair tax regime should be provided for. On the other hand, the draft law in question contradicts in all its parts the recipes of the liberal economy, and makes bureaucracy the main nourishment precisely to complicate the structuring of the measures. Moreover, the British have rightly expressed their willingness to oppose what Europe produces in practice: detailed regulations, red tape on clam millimeters, economic rules that do not take into account Germany's surplus balances and then rivers of chatter at the European Councils. Of the great challenges that need urgent and targeted interventions, such as the great migration crisis, not even the shadow. It is certainly a historic event, but from a political point of view, Brexit must give us an idea of reflection. We must rethink, with great humility, that building ivory towers, so separated from the lives of citizens, so far from considering the voices of change, so rigid in the face of economic and social problems, there is often the risk of seeing them collapse. A warning goes also to this Government which, with this and similar measures, goes in the wrong direction. It doesn't simplify, it doesn't rearrange and it doesn't adequately innovate the agricultural sector; on the contrary, it makes it even more full of bureaucratic obligations and burdens, and this will certainly not result in the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, which is instead a driving force for the Italian economy and GDP. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u57	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the measure we are about to adopt has had a long journey in the transition between the two chambers, but it is also true that it addresses fundamental issues in the agricultural sector. From the outset we have considered this text as a kind of framework law for the complexity of the fundamental issues it was dealing with. During these two years the changes took place for further details made to the House because, in parallel, some measures have actually been implemented. New themes have been included, such as the reorganization of financing and management of the horse sector with greater coordination and control by the Ministry or as the decisive one of beekeeping. In view of the importance of this sector and the plant health risks it constantly faces, a closer control and rigour is envisaged with the introduction of sanctions in case of failure to report variations of hives to the national beekeeping register. On this I want to express satisfaction with an agenda that I have presented and which has been accepted, of which the Government has shared the concern expressed by the beekeeping organizations for there to be a precise, rigorous and non-general use of the sanction, which is referred precisely to the first holding of hives and to the annual census of the consistency of hives in breeding. I am thinking deliberately of what might seem like a micro-sector but which, as we know, is actually a key sector for the balance of the ecosystem and the environment. The beekeeping sector is in fact and not in the preconditional opinions of the entire plant cycle. Without bees there is no pollination and, therefore, no biodiversity, no plants and, therefore, no animals. We don't have enough of this in mind. It is a fundamental sector and the threats of parasites devastating for a few years are worrying producers and institutions. My Region, Liguria, is experiencing in a dramatic way parasites such as waspa velvet, the Asian hornet and the aethina tumida, which is mentioned in this provision. I have repeatedly brought this issue to the attention of the Commission and the House. Aethina tumida is a parasite that nourishes of favi, wax and everything found in the beehouse. Contaminated honey becomes unusable while the arnia, destroyed, is colonized by larvae. The parasite can lay up to 2,000 eggs. If strict control is not maintained, the whole world of pollination can be compromised with devastating consequences. I say this because, beyond the specific article dedicated to the agricultural link, it is clear that the issue of prevention, of a reinforced national and territorial plant health system and more linked to the research system is a very high priority. Our most valuable environmental values are at high risk if we fail to adapt instruments of strong contrast and knowledge of the new threats that come. I am talking about bees like olive trees with xylella or chestnut groves from all over Italy with the infestation of the Chinese wasp, until the last arrival: the Asian bug, which is seriously threatening the orchards of the Bolognese area and about which Mr Broglia is making himself, precisely these days, an interpreter of the concerns of the producers. And I could talk about dozens and dozens of worrying examples. A measure such as Law No 1328, which deals with the fundamental themes of competitiveness growth, can therefore only start from the protection of the health of its productions; it must introduce a new approach to the management of the global mobility of parasites, a structured and rapid management in recognizing and intervening. The link is a measure based on the growth of competitiveness through actions to simplify and rationalise public instruments. Some delegations, such as that for the fisheries sector, have been withdrawn to set up a dedicated measure, which is already being approved by the House. On the other hand, the provisions relating to illegal fishing, amended and adapted to the sanctioning system of European provisions have remained. Sanctions have been introduced for poaching in inland waters. The measure under discussion contains, in my opinion, in a useful way a general dimension of reform and simplification of laws, overlaps of laws, procedures and tools of public management - I am referring to the reform of institutions, which is already under way - but it also addresses the management of individual sectors that need ways of valorization, of a quality certified and guaranteed by a serious traceability, those sectors that are most exposed to a global competition, in waves of entry difficult to challenge if not on the levels of identification and of high quality and transparency. This, whether we talk about the tomato sector, in which the measure sets a path with all the passages, from production to processing to the finished product, or that we talk about the rice sector, which is supported by the development of genetic improvement, the relationship between product and territory and landscape, the improvement of information for consumers. We face consolidated and traditional sectors of Italian agro-food, but also sectors that are emerging, even in small quantities, but that enrich the Italian heritage. I am referring to the article on craft beers, the definition of craft beer which will still need to be studied and the regulation of small breweries, which will keep traceability and simplification together, i.e. rules that are compatible with small size. Here, I believe that the importance of this measure lies in the issues it addresses, but also in a new approach, which holds on the same level the large dimensions, the general structural reforms, but also the definition and regulation of emerging, small niche productions. General reforms and regulations of specificities: it is the approach that I believe must have our country talking not about agriculture, but about agriculture, different, recognized and certified. I believe that we can face a new phase, that there is a new opportunity for the new generations and therefore I express all the satisfaction of having arrived at the end of this path, because it confirms that this Government, as it had never happened before, has put agriculture and its modernization at the centre of this new time, and this is a change of great significance. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u59	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u62	GATTI (PD). Mr President, I would have preferred not to do this, because with this late sitting speech I continue today in the Senate a relay with which, together with many senators and senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man, to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. Yesterday we heard that the list of women who were victims of feminicide has increased by one unit. Micaela Masella died on June 12 at the hands of her husband from whom she had been separated for two years, which caused the explosion of the apartment where he, Micaela and two daughters lived. Micaela Masella and a couple of neighbors died in the explosion. The two daughters are wounded and still admitted to the Niguarda. The husband confessed yesterday that he cut off the gas pipe in the house because he could not stand the abandonment of his wife who, after two years of separation, in which he had not yet interrupted the coexistence, had decided to move in with a new companion. ISTAT informs us that a woman is killed in Italy every 2.2 days. 46.3 percent of the women killed die at the partner's hands. The severity of sexual and physical violence has increased. Cases of assisted violence are also growing. In the media, violence against women is always described as the result of passionate motives. The stereotype of betrayed honor, which justified the right of honor, is transformed into that of jealousy, betrayal, abandonment that man has not been able to accept. The man is therefore to be pitied. His was an extreme gesture, a raptus. An explanation, in short, that by giving an attenuating to the culprit, places a part of responsibility on the woman, as guilty of having provoked jealousy. It is a false representation of reality. Femicide is almost always the ultimate result of a series of long-standing violent behaviors. With Law No 119 of 2013 against gender violence, which this Parliament approved in implementation of the Istanbul Convention, our country has recognised violence against women as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination. He acknowledged that violence against women is a social phenomenon that has its roots in the relationship of asymmetrical power between men and women. This is why it can be prevented by intervening on the factors that determine asymmetry. That is why a plan against violence against women has been proposed and approved. And in the meantime, instruments of protection have been strengthened to ensure greater safety for women under threat. However, it is necessary to monitor that these measures work and that the plan is implemented. What didn't work in Micaela Masella's protection plan? What preventive measures had to be taken to avoid such a tragedy? An appeal to the Minister for Equal Opportunities and to the Government everything: monitor the application, the merits and the limits of Law No. 119 of 2013, and above all give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. An appeal to the media: stop justifying murderers and blaming women. An appeal to the country, men and women: 160 women killed every year, we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u65	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, while our Government is seeking the rescue of the Monte dei Paschi bank in Siena and the Italian banks (but not the savers), a much greater disaster is approaching. According to Bloomberg's latest analysis, Chinese banks will require a maximum of $3,000 billion in recapitalisation within two years. A bomb five times as devastating as the Lehman Brothers case. The Chinese government will have to devalue the yuan by at least 30% and push, push exports. And they are being equipped: to the way of the transasian railway silk, the marine one is added, through the recently doubled Suez Canal, that is completed with the plan of the offshore port of Venice. A work that to the Italians does not serve, but to the president of the harbour Authority Costa yes, and to the Chinese as well. Between Prato, Padua and Milan is consolidated an industrial district, but also a distribution network for the invasion of Chinese goods. The riots of Sesto Fiorentino are in line with the creation of a State in the State, in systematic violation of the rules of the host country: from tax avoidance to summary justice. Routine control has been hindered with violence, with the involvement of an association, the White Deer, dedicated to beatings and intimidation, which has at the top condemned for murder and prostitution. How is that possible, Minister Alfano? Answer my question. These "vigilantes " protected the interests of Chinese entrepreneurs, who have too much cash: says the president of the Tuscany Region, Enrico Rossi. Every year through money transfers, 1.7 billion go to China; in Veneto, according to a study by the Chamber of Commerce, they are much more than declared incomes. These "vigilants " protect a dense network of individual companies, which change their name before having to deposit their budgets, produce or import products that are toxic to health and are continuously being seized. It is blind or unfaithful to those who do not see the strategy of a state that has fakely embraced the market, but acts according to statist logics of communist derivation, a state that, instead of embracing human rights and environmental protection, makes a mess of it, to have an undue advantage over Europe. That China can be considered a market economy is ridiculous. The Democratic Party, too soft in the European Parliament, thinks about this: what interests is it opening the door to? Mr Alfano, who had Chinese policemen in their uniforms patrol Rome and Milan, think about it, as if it were not our law and we were willing to transfer national sovereignty. Our law enforcement forces are blocked by cuts and cuts, while their system can lavishly pay complacent law firms and accountants. There is nothing secret in this: this war of commercial conquest is the subject of international articles and publications. Gentlemen, either we open our eyes or they'll close our factories forever.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u66	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-653.ana.u67	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, July 6, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.48 p.m.
