ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2495, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the President of the Budget Committee reported on the work of the 5th and 6th Commissions, a preliminary question was rejected and the debate on the matter of trust took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u7	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, yet another confidence in a text that has led Italians to deceive on the abolition of Equitalia, we discover, reading a little better the papers (even if in the few hours that the Senate has had to examine them), that Equitalia does not change at all: it changes only the plate outside the buildings where it is located. Moreover, it had to be the decree-law that, starting from Equitalia, advanced on the ground of that tax friend, objective of many almost always failed. And in fact, instead of going towards the tax friend or that tax compliance - as we say today - we put under our feet even what little remains of a taxpayer code always disregarded to every economic and fiscal decree-law. It had to be a simplification and instead only the new requirements, which fill three pages written thick, will complicate businesses, families, citizens, professionals, artisans and traders further their lives, and above all they will bring them additional costs. If the accountants have protested, Madam President, let alone how much they will protest the taxpayers when they discover that, from the detection to the collection, everything will happen in a single solution, a single monster will enter their lives, being able to use those important and delicate databases not only for the purpose of collection but who knows which others. It is a very delicate subject that is addressed in this decree-law, disregarding, on the part of the Government, all logic towards a modern tax and a system of control and fight against evasion that must operate in the strictest possible forms, but cannot prevent people from being holders of their lives, of their employment contract, of their social security contribution, of everything they pay and pay, which must serve to support the needs of a working life and then pensions; on the contrary, in this decree it is used for the purpose of paying taxes. But for the government, which would have the ambition to reduce the tax burden, this is perhaps the most tragic missed opportunity. Even on the eve of such an important electoral consultation, it does not come to mind the Government and its majority that the main object of our attention and protection must be the Italian citizen, the Italian taxpayer, even in the context of a fair and correct fight against tax evasion. But you can understand then soon why it could not be that way: with the excuse of changing name to Equitalia, in reality, through a decree-tax law you imagine new era revenue, new money that will be stolen from the pockets of the Italians and used to cover many spending initiatives contained in this measure and others that will be inserted in the budget law. So it's a decree that was used to cover, to make cash and, if it's used to make cash, it means that from the change of the name of Equitalia the Italians will have only to lose. Let us think - for example - of that figure, which drowns the blood of the Italians, contained in the decree: 500 million euros - I repeat 500 million euros, half of a billion euros - that the Accounting quota resulting from the foreclosures that will immediately be executive when the procedure comes into force, in a few days, and with the foreclosures of the assets of the Italians we must go to cover the expenses that we support for the migratory wave that does not stop in our country. And it will not stop because this Government, which is strong with Italian taxpayers and weak instead with Europeans, with other countries and, above all, with the European Union, what has been able to make itself done yesterday? Having suffered the shame of having almost completely lost its place in the United Nations Security Council, where the security of the world and of European countries is the main objective, yesterday we lost another important one. The official who will guide all the control activity on the European hotspots, especially the Italian ones, will be an Englishman and in the Brexit era, if the English manage to be more valued and considered of the Italians on a topic like that of immigration, it means that we are really very bad, worse than Brexit. And this Government will succeed with its very weak and unable action in Europe to disappoint once again the expectations of so many Italians who think that, with only one "yes" it could really change the situation of our country. Instead, it will take a great 'no' to stop a government that the only thing it can do is study a tax decree, deceiving the Italians that will produce new tax revenues to the Italian State, which will have to cover more and more expenses for an immigration that does not control, does not govern and that decide others. It is even decided by those who have decided to leave Europe. I think, then, Madam President, that the time has come for words and truth. From here to the next fifteen days the truth of the Italians will come to light. In this tax decree, however, lies the whole truth of this Government: rake money from the pockets of the Italians, through taxes, in order to be able to bear expenses that will increase our debt and our deficit. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u10	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, the North League will be a double no to this decree-law: no to the content of the measure, no to trust. This decree is an example of Renzi's way of governing, of the way of deceiving citizens: a decree-law approved in thirty-one days between the Chamber and the Senate with a final vote of confidence; a decree that speaks of the dissolution of Equitalia, simplifications, financing for indifferent needs: falsehood, lies. Equitalia will not be abolished, but the Revenue-Risk Agency will be established in its place. It is only a change of name and legal form. The new statute will be approved by the Government. The new Agency will have direct control by the Government, it will become an operational arm of the Government on the fiscal front. Article 3 provides that the new collecting company will be able to control the amount of each taxpayer's account, the amount of salary and pension; it will be able to carry out a full and preventive X-ray of the balance sheet of each Italian citizen. It therefore promotes the strengthening of collection in order to make foreclosure of salaries, wages and allowances more effective. Other than IRS friend, as Renzi told us: falsehood, lies. Article 4 provides for new provisions for the recovery of evasion and, in particular, new requirements for VAT consignments: analytical reporting of all invoices issued and received and quarterly notifications of VAT. Other than simplification: you will make the lives of citizens, taxpayers and families hell. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]] You even provoked the protest of accountants. New requirements will become new costs for citizens. Eight new tax requirements and disproportionate sanctions: a mere formal error of one euro will produce a minimum penalty of 5,000 euros. We do not say that: the association of accountants says, who are scandalized by the rules of this decree. The moratorium on accounting records: no sanctions and more if you pay fast. This is another great deception. Who will be able to make use of this opportunity if 70 percent of the tax payments are due by the end of 2017 and the remaining 30 percent in 2018? Only those who manage big capital, that is, the big evaders, who will be able to get into debt with the banks, and certainly not ordinary citizens or small businesses, who cannot even pay taxes year by year. You just want to cash in 2017. You need fresh money to spend to build your consent. But there will be no income you expect, as there will be no voluntary disclosure. You approve this decree-law to incorporate bogus revenue into the law of budget and stability in order to keep your electoral expenses standing. And then there are the latest articles, which have nothing to do with a tax decree and with indifferent and urgent investments. These are only referendary tips, rain donations to bring consensus to the government campaign for "yes." I mention just a few: 600 million to municipalities working with the Government to create reception centres for migrants; rewards without logic, without justice. Each municipality has the right to a fair distribution of resources, regardless of whether it helps Renzi and Alfano in the insane policy of the invasion. And then there are 600 million to the Campania Region of De Luca, to pay the debts contracted with the railway company regional; and another 90 million to the Molise Region, for the debts contracted with Trenitalia. The usual logic: those who spend the public money badly are rewarded; those who spend it well are mocked. More: those who campaign for Renzi get public investment from the government, the others don't. It is a sort of exchange vote paid by all citizens. This is the Renzi-De Luca model. Shame! [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]] This is a deceptive decree, as is constitutional reform, starting with the title of the referendum; and citizens have many examples, starting with good school. With this decree-law, passed between the House and the Senate in just thirty-one days with confidence, you show that the Government does not need special powers to approve the laws and that bicameralism is not a problem, but an alibi. You already use and abuse the Constitution to do what you want. I wonder what would happen in these classrooms if your reform were approved. The truth is that Renzi wants to take away power from local authorities and citizens to do what he wants, without even asking permission. If today's citizens feel that they have little to do with political decisions, tomorrow, if reform passes, this feeling will become a certainty. The citizens will no longer elect their representatives, but they will be appointed by other politicians on the regional councils; the same method will be used to appoint the Provinces' advisers and presidents. What you want to put into practice is the overcoming of democracy: taking away popular sovereignty from citizens, because the powers to which Renzi responds are terrified of democracy. The variable of the popular vote in the realization of their projects is a variable that fears, that it must be reduced, eliminated, and Renzi has launched a reform in order to achieve this objective. Renzi aims to obtain a flagship, presumed savings in the costs of politics; in reality it is only ridiculous, as the General Accounting of the State testifies. All of us in the Lega Nord Group hope that citizens will understand what is at stake in the referendum and do not adhere to the Renzi-De Luca model of the exchange vote. The right to vote must not be sold to Renzi and to anyone but, it must be defended because it is priceless. The North League votes no to this decree-law; it votes no to trust the Renzi Government; it will vote no to a reform on 4 December which is not in the interests of the citizens, but is in the interest of the palace. We say no. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u13	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, we had an approach to the tax decree of great interest and willingness to participate in the change of what we consider to be one of the weaknesses of our state system. The excessive tax burden, but also the forms of enforcement for the collection of taxes are one of the most scandalous aspects of our country system. Therefore, the declared will to eliminate Equitalia was married, in our sense, with the will to give the Italian taxpayers a fairer collection system, really a system in which the tax is not seen, in the collective imagination, as the satrapo impositore that pursues the taxpayer citizen, but as those who assist him, helps him in the exercise of the due payment of taxes. Instead, we are faced with a facade operation, which needs a vote of confidence in order to allow, once again, that there is no free debate that can bring improvement to a law that is not understood to those who want to benefit: certainly not to the small and medium-sized Italian entrepreneurs, those of the agricultural, craft and industrial sectors; it is the entrepreneurs who, in the last six long years of crisis, who now turn one after the other, no longer have the ability, the power, the possibility to face even the due to the tax. Well, this measure, the so-called breakdown of folders, can only be for the benefit of those who have liquidity in their pockets. There is no small or medium-sized enterprise that can join a break-up that provides for the immediate payment, in 2017, of 70 percent of the amount due. Such an operation does not benefit the pockets of the State either. In fact, you, with this measure, have introduced a maneuver that you would have considered scandalous if only it had been put on the field by a government of another sign, by a government of center-right. You introduce a pardon but, unlike other condons we have seen in our country, it is only for the rich, it is a state gift to those who have the possibility to pay taxes, to the extent of 70%, immediately. This manoeuvre, therefore, will not benefit even the pockets of the State for the impossibility of adhesion to such a planned demolition. But the thing that most gives scandal, that really gives the sign of what is the political attitude that this Government carries on, is the article 5-a of this tax decree, in which it is previewed a facilitated breaking up for the oil companies, for the companies that operate in the field of the gas and hydrocarbons: for them is previewed a different breaking up; for them it is previewed the payment in seven comfortable annual installments; for them it is previewed the payment of 20% of the residual of the payments of their records. So you have a double meter, a double lane: a wide lane, comfortable and fast, clearly for the oil sector - I don't have to be the one to reveal it - the one with the highest income capacity and that involves companies that surely have lungs and financial capacities very different from those of the average Italian production system. For them we design a standard that is an incredible and important gift and for all the others we expect absolutely unworkable standards. So our judgment is not just technically negative for the instrument that is being adopted. Our judgment is not negative just because you wanted to do yet another facade operation with the radio and television system, which is the state one and is paid with taxpayers' money, which makes an absolutely incredible embezzlement operation. Over the last few days, it has been repeated that GDP has adjusted upwards to 0.8%. None of the television conductors, none of the journalists in these services said that at the beginning of the year the forecast was 1.1 percent, and therefore the adjustment will be positive compared to the last quarter, but it is absolutely negative compared to the forecasts made by the government at the beginning of the year. And this is not a fact without influence in the daily lives of our citizens. The previous Stability Act for 2016 was based on a growth forecast of 1.1 percent. When actual growth stops at 0.8%, it means that our country, overall, resorts to further debt and debt, signed by Renzi, in this country is already 112 billion compared to the previous management. It is a debt that continues. What happened, then, to the statements for which the previous policies that had given to future generations a colossal debt were criminal? You're only increasing it. Our public debt not only does not decrease, but increases by another 112 billion. How do you think about future generations? In what country do you imagine that our new generations can live, further weighed down by debt action? Do not think - I tell you with my heart - that it can be the so-called strong powers, the great international finance that saves this country. Our country, with its capabilities, with the strength that derives from its structure of enterprise, small and medium, with the inventiveness, with the made in Italy, is saved only by restoring confidence and strength to our typical production sector. The Italian small and medium-sized enterprise, from the measure on which you are going to vote today, not only doesn't get any benefit and relief, but will even suffer a further worsening of its position. Unfortunately, we will see once again - I am sorry to be easy Cassandra - foreclosures of companies and houses. We will still see - I fear - acts of self-harm on the part of those who do not want to resign; when you see your home removed or you see the seals placed on your company, you live a sense of full failure, a failure that disregards your choices. Today the moral contrast that I would like the Assembly to listen to and feel as its own is the discouragement that our entrepreneurial society lives with respect to a decline, a decadence, a failure of its own companies, due not to a miscalculation on its own business strategy, not to its own inability - why there could also be resignation - or to errors committed in the conduct of its own company, no. The problem is failure, loss of competitiveness and economic capacity because of a system that kills small and medium-sized enterprises. And this system also includes the tax system, the banking sector and access to credit. Well, against this system, not only does the Government give no weapon and no possibility of struggle, but they even associate with each other. This is a government that warns and supports the sensibilities that come from the financial and banking world, from the world of multinational productions, completely deaf to the needs of our entrepreneurial structure and the calls and the importance that for a country have the development and support of the new generations. That is why we shall be voting against the confidence placed on this measure. [[Applause from Senator Perrone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u14	Today our work is attended by a representation of students of the group of the chair of constitutional law of the faculty of jurisprudence of LUISS, to which we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u17	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, representatives of the Government, our Group is not passionate about campaigning for 'yes' or 'no', because there is no constitutional referendum at stake today. As Mr Milo has said in general debate, our Group has committed itself to highlighting the inconsistencies and improvements of the tax decree under consideration. As a good doctor would have done, and as Senator Milo did yesterday, it needs treatment. And we have done it regularly and we continue to do it. The measure is an integral part of the year-end manoeuvre. It is the essential element of this, by finding the financial resources that are indispensable to give the Italian economy that breath, in terms of the progressive overcoming of the economic crisis, which has so far been lacking. Our judgment cannot therefore be without a more comprehensive assessment, even if the link with the end-of-year maneuver has an ambivalent character, giving the measure a inevitably temporary character. It is clear that we will have to reconsider some of the rules when the framework is better defined. We are waiting for the final response of the European Commission, which will be announced - alas - only after 4 December. We shall then see how the diversity of assessments which has only been announced so far can be re-established. At the moment, on the basis of official documents, we can only measure the perimeter of the divergence. This is more or less five billion - as Senator Milo said yesterday - which will have to be dealt with, in whole or in part, according to the evolution of the possible negotiation. And we hope that the President-in-Office will be able to negotiate well. It follows, therefore, that the same budget law, which the House of Deputies is preparing to adopt - we know that the Commission worked late last night - will have to take account of this exogenous variable. The Senate will have to reconsider everything in the light of our perspective and we will make our contribution there. I am already voting in favour of our Group, but with the budget law we will have to have those answers in terms of positive consolidation of the budget maneuver in the right tracks, as we consider appropriate and not in criticism, but in order to build together a budget law that serves all of us. In the meantime, however, we cannot fail to make an assessment of a text that has many lights and shadows: shadows that we have tried to thin with our amendments, on which we will insist when the maneuver takes on a more definitive character. The first observation concerns large numbers. The maneuver, as you know, will lead to an increase in the deficit of EUR 12 billion, equal to 0.7% of GDP. The lower revenues will contribute 5 billion, while the remaining 7 billion will result from higher expenditure, both in part current and capital. This overall figure should not be considered in isolation, but linked to the amount of the so-called safeguard clauses which, as we know, relate to the ventilated increase in VAT and excise duties (problem avoided for 2017, but not for subsequent years), charges whose value, again for 2017, is EUR 15.1 billion. Comparing the two figures it can easily be deduced that the entire maneuver envisaged is insufficient to cover that tax fee, as Vice Minister Zanetti called it in his brilliant journalistic intervention, which faces its roots in the night of time. The invention, indeed, was of Minister Tremonti, who yesterday wanted to teach us a lesson, but perhaps he gave it mirroring himself, because this vulnus started from him and from his unhappy invention, contained in Decree-Law of 6 July 2011, n. 98. Yesterday, Mr Tremonti recalled the content of Article 47 of the Constitution, which also existed in 2011, but then he did not remember it. It was then a question of meeting Europe's demands and the double-signed letter of the then President of the European Central Bank Trichet and Mario Draghi. Article 40 of that decree-law provided for a cut in tax concessions and deductions and, still today, makes a certain impression to see that forty pages which constitute the annex c) of the measure, a table in which the 1,000 items that could guarantee an increase in tax. Already then thought of a reordering of the whole matter, but, as in the case of spending review, the only thing that has changed is the men in charge of identifying the course of change. The successive European pressures under the Monti Government - we all remember - forced to change that rule, with the consequent drastic increase in VAT and excise duties, since it had to be found 20 billion euros in order to prevent the rate from rising to 25% in 2018 and that facilitated to 13 percent. It's been six years since that damn 2011 and, even now, we're busy finding a way to plug those holes. This more general assessment cannot prevent a more careful assessment of the merits. Senator Milo told us yesterday about article 5-a of the measure. We did not behave exactly like Robin Hood, who takes away the rich to give to the poor: vice versa, to the rich, who are few, we gave so much and to the poor we gave little. In fact, the 20% dispute provision concerns only oil tankers, which are few, the producers of alcohol and, perhaps, cigarettes. This provision has been included in the House of Deputies and I would like to know the name of the rapporteur for the amendment, because it is an ad personam measure, which concerns a very small group of people, which is also given the opportunity to pay in seven years, unlike the remaining 70% of citizens who, with regard to the dismantling of records, have to make the payment within one year. That is the difficulty. Perhaps we will be able to intervene with the bill of stability, because, as Senator Milo said in general debate yesterday, perhaps it was better to predict 72 installments, which could become even 120. From the financial point of view, according to the parameters indicated in the technical report of the General Accounting of the State, the equivalence between the two different systems implies an annual interest rate of about 4% (as Senator Milo said yesterday), while others benefit from a rate of 1.5% and even some earners. It was also possible to do better in the field of sports audiovisual rights. Our Group has said so many times. In fact, there are many instances that have come to our Group in support of the excellent work done in the League Pro, in an attempt to modify the provisions of the decree. The demands clearly highlight the difficulties and economic concerns of the series A, B, league Pro and league Basketball. Sports audiovisual rights are of great national interest for the financial autonomy of the A, B, professional league companies or amateurs. Madam President, on one particular point it seems appropriate to draw the attention of the Government from the outset. It is not clear in the text when we examine the fate of collection centres other than Equitalia: will they continue to operate or be cut off from the provisions for taxpayers? This latter possibility would result in their inevitable crisis, with direct and immediate reflections on hundreds of workers who are there employed. It is good, therefore, for the Government to provide clarification. I conclude by recalling that we make a positive assessment, but we would have liked the Government to have taken account of our suggestions because we would have had a better decree-law. We want to make a contribution. The large numbers lay in favor of the maneuver, the small ones contradict it in many qualifying points. The AL-A Group will take on board this unsolved problem when the economic and political framework is clarified and the budget law is discussed. We shall be fighting for the amendments which we have tabled, but which have not been taken into account because of force majeure, to get the attention they deserve. Today we will trust the government. Tomorrow, if our constructive proposals are not taken into account, we will adjust and evaluate a vote different from today's. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u20	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, we share the fundamental objectives of the tax decree, namely the fairness and simplification of the relationship between the tax system and the taxpayer, the dissolution of Equitalia and the establishment of the revenue and collection agency and the effective and increased autonomy of the local authorities with regard to the choices for the collection of local taxes. In general terms, the measure under consideration continues to strengthen the opportunities for repentance by taxpayers and the consolidation of composition procedures instead of possible litigation. Among the important points of the measure we agree with the decision of the Government to reopen the terms related to voluntary disclosure. The reopening of procedures and deadlines clearly can only confirm the rules that have already governed the action in the matter of voluntary in force for 2016. These measures have introduced, and now reiterate, substantial innovations in the relationship between the tax system and taxpayers in order to effectively combat tax evasion. The provisions on the reopening of the voluntary disclosure represent a further opportunity for taxpayers to decide to regularise their position vis-à-vis the tax authorities. With regard to the voluntary disclosure, we reiterate, as already requested with an agenda at the Chamber of Deputies accepted by the Government, the hope that in the parliamentary examination of the budget law it will be made clear that, under the Special Statute of Trentino-Alto Adige-Südtirol, part of the proceeds deriving from the voluntary disclosure belongs to the two autonomous Provinces, as stated in the Constitutional Court judgment no. 66 of 2016 in relation to the analogous problem of the Aosta Valley. Announcement, therefore, the Group's vote in favour for the Autonomies-PSI-Maie. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u23	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I believe that the Renzi Government has now beaten every record with regard to matters of trust, largely exceeding all the previous Executives. Even today, therefore, we are faced with the usual script, with a use and abuse of the decree of urgency - on which we have already had the opportunity to intervene yesterday in the debate on the question of the preliminary ruling - and yet another obvious end to the imposition of the question of trust in a situation in which the commission responsible could not examine only superficially the measure, without being able to evaluate even the amendments and therefore without possibility of improvement. As you can see, when you are interested in the government, you always proceed very quickly to the face of the supposed slowness linked to the perfect bicameralism. The tax decree on which the bill of conversion voted today the question of trust is an essential part of the financial maneuver and indeed many of the measures that made the decree-law completely uneven could be incorporated into the budget law. Therefore, precisely because it is part of this budget law, in my explanation of vote I cannot fail to make an overall assessment of a general nature, which is also the basis of our firm opposition to the merit of the decree-law in question and of course also of the no to the vote of confidence. For three years now the Renzi Government has been moving in economic policy on two lines that in our opinion have not brought us absolutely out of the crisis and have not produced a real recovery of the country itself. On the one hand there is the use of a recipe that has already proved absolutely wrong and certainly not sufficient, that is the maneuver on the side of the offer, with measures that have characterized themselves, at least for the three years of the Renzi Government, simply in tax facilitation, in the use of the tax credit always in favor of the enterprises. These are, therefore, recipes that are returning to fashion in the United States with the victory of President Trump and that, as many economists claim, are certainly not enough: the maneuvers on the supply side can serve in small part to guarantee recovery but are insufficient, for example, to stimulate investment. The other line, the one that has been constant in these three years, is given by the electoral instrumentality. I am referring to a series of measures which aim to please various categories and therefore to move within the framework of electoral bonuses: the word bonuses and such tools have been used more and more as there were electoral appointments. This budget law, which is entirely articulated on the basis of this principle, is also close to an important meeting such as that of the referendum and therefore makes reference once again to this type of technique. We basically believe that these two lines have produced not only absolutely insufficient results, but on the side of electoral exploitation also of damage from the point of view of balances and accounts. The new version of this last phase is the controversy with the European Commission, but not about a genuine diversification and questioning of Europe's austerity policies. This controversy has more the taste of a kind of propaganda - even in this case - than a conviction, which should have been at the heart of the Government's attention since the first European semester, had the government really believed that it was necessary to change the register in Europe. Therefore, this too has perched itself on the debate on certain margins of flexibility (not to be devoted to investment), and certainly not in questioning the key axes of European policy, which was absolutely wrong. Moreover, this approach is not producing significant results even in terms of the granting of flexibility margins. This decree - and we must say this very clearly - also presents all the vices that I have described, while there is much more to be done. We have been proposing this for a long time and we have put forward a very clear and precise proposal also in the context of the budget law, because we think that we should intervene massively on the demand side and not on the supply side, therefore with investment policies. Some may think that they are nostalgic policies because they have Keynesian references, but they are actually the only ones that could allow our country to secure a recovery. We need an investment policy. We talked about one point of GDP per year (17 billion). We need a green social compact and we need massive investment. Let us also think about the earthquake: huge investments would be needed to secure our territory from the hydrogeological risk and the safety of the buildings. We need a different energy policy, so we need a massive amount of social investment policies. Unfortunately, however, we still do not want to follow this approach. On the wrong side of politics, this budget law also fully marries the two lines I was talking about earlier. The tax decree moves on these lines: for example, he made an operation on Equitalia that is of a very propagandistic nature; he made believe that the intervention on Equitalia was linked to the demolition of all the folders, letting the public imagine that the elimination of sanctions and interest of delay was contained also in the overcoming of Equitalia. Instead, we all know that this is an extraordinary measure which concerns only the game in question in this decree. On this front, we believe that we had to work fairly, because it is absolutely necessary to distinguish. There is an escape of survival, which must be understood and dealt with by specific measures, but we cannot do a sweeping operation. We cannot all treat each other in the same way: those who have voluntarily defrauded millions of euros to the treasury and those who do not make it to pay. Once again, however, it does not stand out. The amendments that we had also tabled to the House on this front, which wanted to put a ceiling on tax debt, were not taken into account. So this is an operation in absolute violation of Articles 53 and 3 of our Constitution. As we said yesterday in general debate, sanatorium operations continue to be carried out, with no certainty of the right in the field of taxation, and this will benefit only a small part of the population, those who, in fact, continue to defraud the tax. A first effect this decree had it because it immediately slowed down the revenues, not to mention the great injustice of those who have already paid everything compared to others who have not done so and who today will have an obvious advantage. Among other things, this decree does not make it absolutely clear whether there will be an extension for the legal regime of taxpayers declaring a state of difficulty. In short, we absolutely do not agree on the substance, not to mention the voluntary disclosure, which means yet another pardon. In this way we do neither a judicial operation nor an operation that can really serve this country. That is why ours is a clear no, a no on the substance, a no on the trust, yet another, placed by this Government. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u26	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax delegation law of 2014 and subsequent implementing decrees have paved the way. The inspirational design of this decree-law, enriched by parliamentary work, is always the same: to finally build a new and unprecedented relationship between the Italian taxpayer and the treasury; a relationship of loyal collaboration based on mutual trust in each one's respective role: one to defend its subjective rights, the other to protect the general interest and at the same time to combat tax evasion in an increasingly determined and effective way. It is an ambitious plan that will need a lot of legislative care and even time. People's Area will vote in favour of the tax decree-law, as the work carried out by the parliamentary groups was dictated by a principle of equity and a concept of tax as an instrument to stimulate the economic initiative of the citizens, and therefore development. Tax collection and public spending are of crucial economic importance to every civil and political community; therefore, the objective to be pursued is public finance capable of proposing itself as an instrument of development and solidarity. But above all, public finance is accepted and assimilated by the taxpayer only when it is oriented to the common good and when it adheres to certain fundamental principles: the payment of taxes as a specification of the duty of solidarity, rationality and equity in the approach of taxes, rigour and integrity in the administration and allocation of public resources. In distributing resources, public finance must follow the principles of solidarity, equality and the valorisation of talents, and pay great attention to supporting families, devoting an adequate amount of resources to this end. It is with this attention to the common good that our legislative action has modulated, first of all on simplifications. Those who go around to meet "the Italy that produces" companies, artisans, traders, small professionals, the people of VAT matches, but also employees struggling with bureaucracy, know that the first demand, together with the decrease in tax pressure, is that of simplification and deburocratization. Italian small and medium-sized enterprises commit 282 euros a year in practices and 122 euros in tax compliance, with a cost of about 21 billion. The simplifications in the relationship between small and medium-sized enterprises, freelance professionals, craftsmen and tax authorities were our main objective: the elimination of blacklists, the suspension of investigations in August, the acceptance of the payment of the additional municipal to the IRPEF, the possibility of paying the F24 in paper form also for amounts above 1000 euros, the virtual stamp on circular cheques, the simplifications for the institutions and organizations registered in the beneficiary institutions of 5 and 2 per thousand. Let us therefore make life easier at least to those who make solidarity, research and education. Similarly, simplification and a premium scheme also for those who opt for e-invoicing in order to improve the VAT reporting system. And then - and we are particularly proud of this - the overcoming of sector studies, replaced by tax loyalty indices to which are linked levels of premium for the most reliable taxpayers also in terms of exclusion or reduction of time limits for investigations in order to stimulate the fulfilment of tax obligations. By adopting these indices, the provisions relating to hated sector studies will cease for tax purposes. In short, the most reliable taxpayers will not have controls and will have wider refunds. If simplifications are needed to best prepare the taxpayer to meet the tax obligation, changing the rules of collection means that the State must also do its part. There will be no more Equitalia, a new economic public body is created that will be instrumental of the Agency of Revenues, but will be subject to the address and supervision of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. All employees - more than 8,000 - with their great wealth of experience will be safeguarded and we are satisfied with this. The new collection agency, which will be set up in the coming months, will have to have a statute which respects the taxpayer's statute, which revises the system of payments and which is based on the principles of cooperation and loyal cooperation. We will indeed be able to aspire to a tax which is no longer unnecessarily vexatory and bureaucratic, but which is more loyal, clearer and closer to the needs of taxpayers in difficulty. An IRS that values the sincere willingness of the citizens to do their duty with the treasury, but at the same time an increasingly severe and intransigent tax on those who deliberately choose the wrong way to avoid their tax duty. All this is best remembered in a framework that, year after year, is revealing its concreteness and the authenticity of the political commitment that is making it. I am referring to the constant decrease in fiscal pressure from 2014 to 2017, one of the most qualifying points of this Government and an absolute novelty for Italian politics. After the reduction of the IRAP, the intervention on the income of subordinate work, then the one on the first house and the IMU in agriculture, for next year the cut of the IRES with three and a half points in less rate, then the IRPEF exemption still in agriculture and then the institution of the IRI in favor of artisans and small entrepreneurs. The measure, an integral part of the entire 2017 budget maneuver, is convinced by the additional support it can give to the real economy. Therefore, I repeat the vote in favour of the People's Area. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u29	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, the announcement has been made that the records have been smashed and that Equitalia has finally been abolished. We were all happy; a request from the 5 Star Movement had finally been accepted, but then, when you go to read the provision, in article 1, paragraph 3, it is written precisely (I want to read it as a summary because it is emblematic of what is external communication and what is actually done): "In order to ensure the continuity and functionality of the collection activities, an economic public body, called "Agenzia delle Entire-Riscossione" (Agenzia delle Entire-Riscossione) " shall be established which "subtains, on a universal basis, in the active and passive legal relationships, including procedural ones, of the Company of the Equitalia Group." Essentially, it's Equitalia 2.0 or, better yet, Equitalia 2-Revenge. Further on, we read, in fact, that it becomes worse and worse: it can enter the current accounts and has an even more vexatory sanctioning system than the previous one. In addition, an agreement will be made between MEF and the Director of the Revenue Agency each year to determine the quantitative targets, the amount of revenue and the rationalisation of resources. Why? This measure serves to cash in, but not through the recovery of real tax evasion. In fact, the sanctioning system goes to punish more than anything the formal mistakes made by taxpayers, who are beaten, rather than going to recover tax evasion especially of the large and very large companies, banks and insurance companies that are often left free to operate to the detriment of those taxpayers who in fact pay their taxes. I would also like to demonstrate, given our hand, this dispute about the fact that 70 percent must be paid in 2017. These figures expressly tell us that this measure is not a help to taxpayers, but is a good and beautiful tax forgiveness, which serves to make cash for the various tips included in the budget law (not only in this, but also in the past) and that the Renzi Government is desperately trying to recover. Ruffini, the CEO of Equitalia, in a hearing at the Senate Finance Committee (so it's not that I'm saying so), made an exhibition on how the unreceived folders are composed: 3 percent are folders from 1 to 1,000 euros, 8 percent from 1,000 to 5,000 euros, 6 percent from 5,000 to 10,000 euros. This means that the little ones pay, because only 3% of the folders that reach up to 1,000 euros are not paid. The bulk of the folders not collected is 53 percent that exceeds 100,000 euros. But the fundamental question is that in this 53% the vast majority is the one that goes well beyond EUR 100,000, that is to say that it goes on the millions of euros, and that can now be healed without sanctions. Now, in a televised confrontation with Deputy Minister Zanetti I have made present these criticalities and also that what is being said around about theaggio there is not in this provision, that is, theaggio there will still be; he instead replied that it will be progressively eliminated. Where do you stand, Deputy Minister Casero, the rule in which it is said that the exercise will gradually be eliminated? You lied once again to those poor taxpayers who would like to be in order, but who cannot, because a vexatory system, at this time of crisis, cannot be supported. It doesn't say anywhere, so for the umpteenth time you're lying. The same applies to new VAT requirements. It is not that we do not want to go looking for those who escape, but the Revenue Agency on this point is still late in verifying all the 2014 annual declarations. So I wonder, now that it will be overwhelmed by these statements how it will control and speed up the control itself. But these are always companies that they have declared and that they are not able to pay. You must go and look for those who do not declare and do, as you have done in this provision, a new pardon for those who bring capital abroad. I want to understand: why did Prime Minister Renzi go on television, when the first voluntary disclosure was made, saying that it would be the last, since they had made agreements with Switzerland on transparency and everything was okay? Then why do it again if everything was okay? Because you have to cash in, still helping some friends who couldn't get in order: that's what matters. Then we don't say that that money will go back to Italy to be invested, because this is another megachat. In fact, that money, which has been cleaned up, is staying abroad and they are not coming back here at all to make new investments. Among other things, the new regulations, rather than simplifying (as has always been argued by this Government), are complicated; according to the Conf Professionals, this will result in about 10 billion increase in four years for companies. Have you thought about that? It seems so, you have thought about it, so much so that you have provided a tax credit of 100 euros to buy the software: 100 euros for a year! What about the updates? What about the accountant's payment? 100 euros a year for such a substantial increase in all the legislation: but do you realize that it is a clown, yes or no? Do you realize that you are talking about a measure that does not actually exist, because inside it is completely different? And I'm motivating him, Mr. Deputy Minister. The game will always be there, don't say no, unless you wrote it and I missed it. Tell me, then, in which article, in which paragraph it is said that the exercise will be eliminated. This new agency, among other things, will still be autonomous, free to do what it wants and will have to pay its managers with a bank contract other than that of the Revenue Agency. The idea of the 5 Star Movement was to return the collection to the Revenue Agency. We have tabled amendments that would have been of common sense and we will shortly also present a bill, my own and Senator Bottici, in which we ask that, at the time of the Bonary Notice, with a penalty reduced by 10%, the taxpayer can pay up to 120 installments, without switching from the usurer on duty, which in this case, instead of Equitalia is called the Revenue Agency. That is the fundamental point. It is for these reasons that the 5 Star Movement is against it. By the way, you have put yet another trust, so, in any case, we would have voted no, because we do not trust a government that lies; the most shocking thing is that it does not even have the courage to claim what it actually does. Therefore, the 5 Star Movement will vote against. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u30	We greet the second group of students and students of the Chair of Constitutional Law of the Faculty of Law of LUISS. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u33	SCIASCIA (FI-PdL XVII). Dear President, kind colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister, representatives of the Government, the decree at our examination is a measure that modifies a significant part of the tax legislation, so we do not understand the use of the decree-law which, for the occasion (as unfortunately in other precedents), has blessed those who consider the bicameral system the interral prince for the swift approval of the laws, that is, an effective intervention of the Senate. The decree under consideration, received by the Chamber on 16 November 2016, must necessarily be converted by the 24th day of the current month, because its revenues are of substantial support to the law of stability today under discussion in the Chamber, and this has resulted in the consequent imposition of trust and the impossibility on the part of the Senate to propose modifications or additions to the numerous imperfections present in the provision. Moreover, given the urgency of the Government, the Commissions 5a and 6a were unable to fully examine the proposed amendments, with the further effect that the measure is without rapporteur. In addition, some of the amendments proposed - please accept - have been converted into agendas, but the value of which is well known to all. Given the extent of the topics covered, I will just comment on a few of them and, precisely, Article 6, relating to the dismantling of folders. It is a positive measure in itself, also in view of the amount of unsolved, almost inexplicable, at the collectors. However, it does not summarize all the necessary cases. Why are only the posts already entrusted to the concessionaires for collection being broken down and those originating from acts fully devices and, therefore, binding, but not yet entrusted to the agency responsible for collection? And again: what difference does exist between a debitory folder issued by Equitalia, relating only to the tax sanction, without therefore debenza of any tax, and the act emanating from an entity with which a sanction is imposed for having smeared a wall or posted the manifesto "Vote Antonio" outside the defined spaces? None. It does not help to the necessity of Article 6-b, of new introduction, also because it is not immediately operational and in any case limited only to posts of tax and social security nature for the recalled value of paragraph 10 of Article 6, in clear contrast to the forecast of the first paragraph of that Article 6-b according to which are included in the definition facilitated the revenues also tax and therefore all the income (the taxes are a "of which"). It must also be allowed to the taxpayer who has brought an application for a break-up to be able to withdraw such an application once he has seen the quantity of the break-up communicated to him by the collector, a condition that is absolutely appropriate and necessary for the roles for which there is a dispute. With regard to Article 4 and the rules for the recovery of evasion, these provisions, of a complex nature, must be closely linked to Article 7-a, which regulates the simplification of compliance. The sector studies will be abolished once, with a special decree, the synthetic indices of reliability are established: "specific decree" of which we do not fully know the terms. These sector studies, however, as pointed out by the financial administration itself, did not contribute to the emergence of the blackout and were, moreover, reached several times by the coffers of the Court of Cassation which, rightly, reduced its value for the purpose of ascertaining it. But Article 4, in view of the abolition of the obligation of the so-called "spessometer," which has an annual frequency, establishes the following new obligations for VAT entities: a) the telematic communication of the data, all, of the invoices issued and received, i.e., allow me, a quarterly "spessometer"; b) the obligation to communicate, always electronically, the data of the periodic, monthly and quarterly liquidations, in accordance with the procedures and with the indications provided for in the VAT decree. The obligations - and therefore the costs - for taxpayers who will have to make the notifications indicated under (a) and (b) quarterly have therefore quadrupled. In view of these burdensome obligations, the Government has indicated that there are no additional costs or measures, as all transactions will be carried out automatically by the taxpayer's computers. Here, however, it cannot be escaped that the taxpayer will have to prepare four broadcasts and that, if the same is not able to form the necessary transmission file, he will have to rely, as always, on the experts of the sector with quadrupling of the cost. If we consider, then, that the financial administration, to date, is examining the VAT returns of the year 2014, we wonder when this new amount of data will be examined. The doubt is that these are not only heavy obligations, but that very little will contribute to the recovery of the evasion. One last notation: given the commitment of the Government to propose new tax rules or to modify the text of those already existing, why, at last, has not put an end to the mess of determining the "stable organization" for professionals and small entrepreneurs for the purposes of the application of IRAP? A problem that attacks tens of thousands of taxpayers, in existence for more years despite the repeated indications of the Supreme Court of Cassation, but remained almost completely unheard. This problem has led to an estimated litigation in thousands of appeals to the competent tax commissions. For all the reasons mentioned above, I announce the vote against the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u36	Rossi Gianluca (PD). Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft of this decree-law, related to the 2017 budget law, focuses mainly on the dismantling of accounting records, on Equitalia, which is annexed to the Revenue Agency, the voluntary disclosure bis, the reform of sector studies (replaced by fiscal compliance indicators) and numerous simplifications. I will only make brief comments on these aspects. 11:07 a.m. (Follows Rossi Gianluca). We try to build a new and unprecedented relationship between the Italian taxpayer and the tax authorities, a relationship of loyal collaboration, based on mutual trust, each in their respective roles, one in defense of its subjective rights, the other in protection of the general interest; at the same time, we try to combat tax evasion in an increasingly determined and effective way. This is an ambitious plan, which will still need a lot of legislative care and, above all, a lot of time. First of all, the Decree-Law introduces simplifications, many and long-awaited: from the abolition of the infamous sector studies, as already mentioned, to the modification of the deadlines for compliance and tax payments; from the suspension of the deadlines in August to the supplementary declaration in favour of the taxpayer; from the simplification of the system of dry coupon on buildings to that on VAT refunds and so on, with many others, long-awaited. The decree-law also intervenes on the collection, which is certainly the most sensitive aspect in the relationship between taxpayer and tax. If simplifications should be used to put the taxpayer in the best possible condition in fulfilling the tax obligation, changing the rules of collection means that the State also does its part. At the beginning there will be the overcoming of Equitalia, with the creation of a new economic public body that will be instrumental subject of the Agency of the revenues and subject to the address and supervision of the Ministry of the economy and the finances. All employees - more than eight thousand - with their great wealth of experience will be safeguarded and we are satisfied with this. The new collection agency, which will be established in the coming months, will have to have a statute that respects that of the taxpayer, that revises the system of the aggi and inspires the principles of cooperation, of loyal collaboration and trust, present in the law delegation. The additional act to the annual agreement between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance and the Revenue Agency, as provided for in Article 1, should provide for the type of communication and preventive information aimed at avoiding any delay, including through the establishment of a telematic window in accordance with transparency criteria allowing the taxpayer to identify the original debt with certainty. If all this is done in accordance with the legislative will, we will have achieved a good but not decisive result. Let us be clear: in order to redesign the balance in the sensitive area of tax collection, action must also be taken in the area of administrative sanctions. The simplifications and the new rules of engagement in the collection meet the first objective, namely the construction of the new relationship between tax and taxpayers. But an IRS cannot afford not to insist on tenaciously pursuing the fight against tax evasion, a fundamental objective for any reform strategy as well as policy, both focused on fairness and redistribution. The tax authorities must dialogue with the taxpayer in the declarative phase, must inform him at the stage preceding the determination, must place the taxpayer in the condition of joining, rethinking and installating, must inform him before the collection, must be clear and punctual in the formation of the role and in the writing of the payment folder and must give the possibility of installment. He must do all this and more, but at the end of the journey he must be inflexible with those who intentionally evade the tax obligation in contempt of Article 53 of the Constitution. This is the meaning of Article 3 of the Decree-Law which refines and strengthens the powers of the new collection agency. The ambition of the draft delegation law will have to continue to follow this path and then we can really aspire to have a tax not more bureaucratic, but more loyal, clear and close to the needs of taxpayers in difficulty, which enhances the transparent willingness of citizens to do their duty with the treasury. At the same time, we will have an increasingly severe and - I repeat - intransigent tax burden on those who deliberately choose the way of avoiding their tax duty. Much more could be said about the decree-law to our attention, since it is an integral part of the entire budgetary maneuver for 2017, but I stop here, as I believe I have summed up the main aspects contained in the provision and the reasons for a vote of confidence favorable by the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u37	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u38	I refer to the vote on the single article of bill n. 2595, of conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law n. 193, 22 October 2016, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Ruvolo is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Ruvolo. SIBILIA, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators: Aiello, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Auricchio Barani, Battista, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippin, Finocchiaro, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fatorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Fincchiaro, Fincoro, Fincoro, Fincorino, Fincorino, Fincorino, Fifano Lombards, Filigoni, Familano The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Aracri, Arrigoni, Augello, Azzollini Bellot, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bisinella, Blundo, Boccardi, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Comaroli, Consiglio, Crimi, Crosio D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, Di Maggio, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Fazzone, Ferrara Mario, Floris Gaetti, Galimberti, Gasparri, Giarro, Giovanardi, Giro, Girotto Lezzi, Liuzzi Malan, Mandelli, Mangili, Marin, Marton, Mastrangelli, Mastrangeli, Mauro, Mauro, Pietrofigliari, Gatti, Gasparri, Gasparri, Rirusso, Giarro, Rirusso, Giarro, Giarro, Giarro, Giarro, Girro, Girò, Girò, Giovanardardio, Giovanardio, Giovanardino, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giovani, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro. The senator abstains: Fucksia Presidente. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u39	We greet the National Association of Young Labour Consultants who follow our work with its members. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u40	I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2595, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 193, 22 October 2016, in the text identical to that approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 249 Majority 125 Favorables 162 Contrari 86 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 193.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u41	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2093. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Bottici has the floor to illustrate the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the agricultural cooperative 'Il Forteto', founded in the mid-1970s on the farm in Bovecchio, Municipality of Barberino di Mugello, has been considered for many years to be one of the main Tuscan communities for the recovery of disadvantaged minors. Its long history began in 1977. The founder's first arrest took place in 1978 and the first conviction was in 1985. It's good for me to have to ask for the umpteenth time that there is no dark veil on this matter anymore. Since 2013, when I entered this House, I have taken on those voices, those victims and all those involved. I asked you in a thousand ways. I have asked all the Tuscan Members to put an end to this long story. The horrors perpetuated in those premises and in that area truly represent a loss of human and civil values. In the condemnation of Fiesoli there is talk of group violence, of a manipulation of the minds happened trying to change a person inside, in his own being. In that community and in that cooperative they have moved to the point of wanting to change people, to want to take away the traditional family, the one that is very often defended in this House, to put in its place the functional family, a family made up of homosexual relationships. Relationships between men and women were forbidden because they needed a functional family. Children were forbidden to see their parents, because they were entrusted to these functional families. Let us put ourselves in the shoes of those who have suffered and of those who are still forced to work in that cooperative with their executioners. This cooperative exists in Tuscany, Italy, which should be a civil and democratic country that protects minors and the weakest; instead, the victims are forced to stay with the executioners. That is unacceptable. It is also unacceptable that some Members from the Regional Council of Tuscany still want to put a lid on this issue today. A few weeks ago the members of the second regional committee of inquiry came here and explained to us that they tried to understand, to bring out, to find out which part of the policy was involved, which part of the policy had meant that these things could go on. Not only is politics involved because the courts, although there were judgments against the founders of the cooperative, continued to entrust the children, although they were well aware of what they were sending them to. It is then our duty and our right, as citizens, to know how things went. I would therefore ask you once again, with your heart in your hands, not to hinder the establishment of this Commission of Inquiry, because surely someone will stand up in this House to say that there have already been two regional committees of inquiry. It's not enough. An entire Regional Council, that of Tuscany, has asked to commission the cooperative and to set up a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the community "Il Forteto": let's listen, then. My request is for an urgent statement to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Last night I spoke with one of the first victims I met and told him that I do not know how it will go, but I am sure that I have tried in every way to make this House open its eyes and if it considers that it wants to keep them closed for the umpteenth time and to protect that Forteto system, linked to European and regional funds and cooperatives, it takes responsibility for it, but its members do so also as people and no longer hiding behind a parliamentary group. Today's vote will be personal and when everyone decides whether to vote for or against the proposal they will know that tonight they will have to sleep with their consciences, how they will sleep those victims who have not succeeded so far, because they hoped that politics might somehow help them. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u45	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, for decades (first as a journalist and then as a politician) I have been dealing with the issue of the cooperative "Il Forteto," fighting it by all means, even with parliamentary questions that have never been answered, I can only associate myself with my Group with the request for an urgent statement just made by Senator Bottici. It can be said, as has been done, that if a Regional Council asks Parliament to set up a Commission of Inquiry, Parliament does not automatically have to set up committees of inquiry on various issues pertaining to the various Italian territories; however, that of the cooperative 'Il Forteto' is a national scandal that has lived with cover and omerta for decades, inexplicably I must say. It was a very rooted system of power, so much so that when Bruno Vespa decided to dedicate an episode of the transmission "Porta a Porta" to the case then he said that there was not a single phone call, but a series of warning phone calls so that not even the name "Forteto" was pronounced, that in so many years of work - and the years of journalistic work of Vespa are really many - had never received so much pressure and that only then had he really understood the strength of this cooperative. I believe that the rubber wall that has existed for more than thirty years (since 1977) must finally be swept away, so the request of a parliamentary committee of inquiry is not instrumental. It is not only a due act, but a political and above all moral commitment that cannot be avoided by this Parliament. He asked us, as Senator Bottici reminded us, the Regional Council of Tuscany with a unanimous vote, albeit thirty years late, and asked us - this is the point - a parliamentary committee of inquiry (which has powers comparable to the judicial authority) to reach where so far it has not been possible or has not been possible, because the shadow areas and the dark points still remain many. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to rip the veil of omerta and lies that covered the facts of the cooperative "Il Forteto" from 1977 onwards: forty years of sexual abuse against dozens of poor children, ended up in the hands of a group of paedophiles thanks to the incredible distraction of the courts for minors, of the social and health services, of the institutions all. A system, to which a part of politics was unfortunately not foreign, which allowed the founders of the Forteto to trample on the dignity and human rights of dozens of children, to enslave them, to turn them away from their families, to psychologically annihilate them, to systematically rape them, to force them to work three hundred sixty-five days a year without salary. The cooperative "il Forteto" was therefore a three-headed monster: a community and then an association, a foundation, a cooperative, but also at its summits an association for criminals, as certified by the judgments of the judiciary, even these arrived with incredible and guilty delay. Therefore, now is the time for Parliament too to play its part in putting an end to this ten-year Italian shame - not Tuscany, but Italian - and finally to do justice. I conclude by recalling that the case is national, because we are in the presence of people condemned definitively for violence against minors in the same structure that the State has continued to entrust to children for decades. If this is not a national scandal to finally shed light on, tell me what it is. I therefore confirm our vote in favour of the statement of urgency. [[Applause from the AL-A Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u48	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we in the Italian Left will also vote in favour of the statement of urgency presented by Senator Bottici, and we will do so because we believe that it is an act due to one of the ugliest pages concerning our region and beyond. We are talking about a reality, that of the cooperative "il Forteto," which has represented over the years for Tuscany an important point of reference for the social reintegration of children. It is no coincidence that the State - it was remembered now - and the court for minors turned to the cooperative "Il Forteto" to entrust minors who came away from their families, where they had suffered abuse, poverty, difficulties and social distress. What happened in this cooperative was very well told by my colleagues Regional Councillors of Tuscany in the report of their commission of inquiry of Tuscany, which has been handed over to all of us and has also partly told the work that the judiciary is doing, not yet complete, but everything yet to be continued. I believe that it is precisely because of the dramatic nature of those facts and the gravity of what has happened in too many years at the Forteto that policy must continue in the commitment already made by the Regional Council of Tuscany, which must be carried out with the powers and instruments that Parliament can make available, such as those of a Commission of Inquiry. To bring to light the truth - not only the judicial one, which is not up to us - is a duty of politics and we should all do this work with a sense of responsibility, but above all for the sake of truth. We owe it to the many young people who were guests of the Forteto and who with difficulty, still today, tell what they lived and immediately. Today, they try to get out of that difficult situation of further discomfort, also thanks to projects that the Tuscany Region, together with some associations - I think, for example, Artemisia - that deal with violence against women and minors, carries on precisely to help them find not only a physical way out of the Forteto but also a new perspective of life. I believe, then, that today's vote is a due act that Parliament owes to a story that is too long silent and that it needs the right truth instead. That is why we shall be voting in favour. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u51	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will very strongly support the request made by Senator Bottici, whom I thank for putting the unacceptable scandal in the spotlight in the context of the Il Forteto cooperative. What happened in that reality is from lager, from horror movies, which is why it is absolutely necessary to shed light on the wall of omerta that for years has been around that abomination of violence on minors, children with disabilities, various suicides, rapes and the ruin of the lives of the victims. That community received funding, from 1996 to 2010, of more than €1.2 million from the Tuscany Region as well as funds from the European Community. Homosexuality, paedophilia, zoophilia were experienced: all that was the denial of nature, almost as if a moral anarchy reigned. This could have been stopped a year after the opening, when a magistrate arrested the founder Roberto Fiesoli for sexual violence. But he didn't serve. He was released and there was a strongly ideological political grip of the community that supported him with the affirmation that the denunciations of violence were only the result of malign language. Fiesoli called himself the prophet. He was able - not well known how, given the lack of credibility he should have had - to organize conferences. Antonio Di Pietro even held a conference against pedophilia; Livia Turco, Rosi Bindi and Fassino passed, but no one noticed what was happening and the complaints. Even in February 2010 the PD Group presented to the Senate a book written by Fiesoli. On all this - without accusing anyone at all - it is time for a parliamentary inquiry to be opened to defend the victims of those violence and I hope that this request can be shared by the whole of this House. The Commission of Inquiry of the Region of Tuscany found that the practice of the community Il Forteto appeared to be abuse. I therefore very much hope that the whole House will be able to vote in favour of the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and CoR groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u54	Martini (PD). Mr President, we will not oppose the request for a statement of urgency and therefore vote in favour. And we will do so aware of the complexity of the affair and also of the fact that, despite various delays and amnesties, there has been much work on it. Two regional committees of inquiry have produced results on which Parliament has already been called upon to reflect and judgments of the judiciary have already imposed convictions and made a clear judgement on the whole matter. We therefore think that it is unlikely that a new Commission of Inquiry in the strictest terms of judgments and convictions will be able to add much. Moreover, it must also be borne in mind that, if we enter into a practice in which all regional events end up in Parliament, with the request to set up a National Committee of Inquiry, it is clear that we are putting ourselves on a sufficiently complicated ground to manage, even more so if we consider that those Commissions must have judicial features that overlap and often conflict with the activities that the judiciary has already carried out. However, these are issues that we will never see when we deal with the exact mandate that the Commission of Inquiry will have. At the moment I want to say that, in the face of a unanimous request from Parliament, we do not back down, partly because there is nothing to hide from the political or personal level and, therefore, the Democratic Group will vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u57	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I rise to speak in favour of the Group to which I belong to the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry for the reasons we have heard and which we share, but also for the concerns that such situations can be spread across the national territory. The hope, therefore, is that the regional committees of inquiry will work better and better. We have heard that two committees of inquiry of the Tuscany Region have already worked on this and we have read the results of their work. I therefore believe that nothing can hinder our parliamentary activity. And we already have important elements, which are also provided by the judiciary, which enable us to express our opinion on what has happened. However, I believe that the request to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry should be accepted and, therefore, we support the initiative. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u58	I put to the vote the request for a statement of urgency, pursuant to Rule 77 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, in relation to the bill n. 2093, made by Senator Bottici and other senators. It's approved. [[Applause.]] I believe that approval has taken place unanimously, having seen no sign of it. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the approval of the request for an urgent statement, the remaining deadline for the submission of reports, as provided for in Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure, is reduced to half. Furthermore, in line with previous decisions taken during the recent work of this House, the Presidency states that, if the competent Commission subsequently connects the proposal with other draft laws, the half-life of all the time-limits for consideration, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, will also extend to them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u59	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2224, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 1134 and 1648. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 17 November Articles 1, 2, 3 and 5 were approved and the examination of Article 4 was abandoned. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 6, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u60	Mr President, I have tabled a number of amendments to Article 6, for the reason that it restricts the application of the guidelines to malpractice alone and that the other two forms of negligence and imprudence remain punishable, even if the health professional has abstained from the recommendations of diligence and prudence contained in the same guidelines. This extension, moreover, is recognized by the same case law of legality, which has intervened in this matter over the last two years (judgments of the Court of Cassation, criminal section, nos. 47289 of 2014 and 45527 of 2015). The current wording would therefore include a pejorative prediction of the current discipline and its jurisprudential interpretation. It is also considered that the engraving, apart from the specific nature of the specific case, allows the judge to assess these specificities without the same assessment being linked to the adequacy of the guidelines in the specific case.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u61	Mr President, for the offence of injury, in this case with regard to the case we are examining, the prosecutor refers directly to the judge who issues the sentence. In line with what is established by the current ritual of the criminal trial, I ask that we proceed through the preliminary hearing. A similar situation arose for the crime of defamation. There has been an assessment, also made by the judge of the laws (with the judgment n. 68 of 1991), that has recovered a right to the person accused of that crime - I am referring to the crime of defamation, which generally concerned journalists - essentially establishing that passing from the preliminary hearing is legitimate and consistent with the principles of guarantee. I propose an amendment to this effect and, on a subordinate basis (if the opinion were to be opposed, but I think that there will be clemency and the opinion will be positive), I would ask that the agenda be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u62	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u63	I am against Amendments 6,200, 6,201, 6,202, 6,203, 6,204 and 6,205. I am in favour of the G6100 agenda. I call for the withdrawal of the additional amendment 6.0.1 and its transformation into an agenda and I am against Amendment 6.0.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u64	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u65	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,200. GIARRUSSO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,200, tabled by Senator Simeoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 6,201, tabled by Senators Stefani and Volpi, until the words 'of imperience'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 6,202 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.203, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.204, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,205, tabled by Senators Scavone and Compagnone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G6100 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, on amendment 6.0.1 there is an invitation to withdraw from the rapporteur. Do you want to turn it into a agenda or withdraw it?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u66	Mr President, since the agenda has been accepted, I welcome the rapporteur's and the Government's request and withdraw amendment 6.0.1. I would therefore ask you, please, to put to the vote the agenda on which a favourable opinion has been delivered.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u67	I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6100, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.0.1 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u70	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask the rapporteur and the Government to know about the proposed amendments referred to in Article 4, also in order to give order to the work, since we have suspended the examination of that article and there was a consequence of other points that we will then have to deal with. I would like to know whether it is possible to have news or whether we intend to continue with this article.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u71	The proposed amendments remain as they are until the problem that has left them behind has been resolved. I do not think that we have yet reached that stage. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.200, tabled by Senators Scavone and Compagnone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares that amendment 7.213, which fully amends the general rules on limitation contained in Article 2947 of the Civil Code, is impossible for the object of the bill. We shall therefore proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u72	Mr President, I am not going to explain all my amendments, because I have tabled a number of them with quite complex legal reasons. I will confine myself to Amendment 7,201, which we believe is useful in coordinating the organic system of public employment rules and in particular those which impose the obligation on companies of the National Health Service to respond, by virtue of the organic identification report, immediately and directly for the unlawful facts of their officials and employees and, therefore, for the damage caused by the same to the third patient. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u73	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 7,203. Basically, paragraph 3 introduces a series of situations to be borne by the professional. It is specified that the operator of the health profession, referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, is responsible for his or her activities in accordance with Article 2043 of the Civil Code. In this respect, there is a specific point that I am going to simplify with my amendment - in my opinion. In fact, the specification says: "Unless it has acted in fulfilling the contractual obligation assumed with the patient" and therefore the judge, when determining the damage, takes into account the conduct of the operator. I think I can simplify the situation that is created with this engraved with a much more direct formulation that leads everything exclusively to cases of malice or gross negligence. I think it is necessary for greater clarity and understanding of all, but also for simplification which I think is always important these days.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u74	Mr President, with amendment 7,204 I would like to add to paragraph 3, first sentence, after the words: 'in the performance of contractual obligations', the words: 'also from custody'. Inserting this very small engraved - in my opinion - you could better define the contents of the word "contractual". It is reiterated, in fact, that, if there had been a previous relationship between doctor and patient, then the contractual one is embodied, otherwise the non-contractual one remains in force. I have already explained in general discussion that it is difficult to imagine being able to relate symmetrically to the good behaviour of the health profession operator with the obligation to comply with the rules of the road code imposed on a motorist, because that is, in practice, the difference in liability under Article 1218 and ex Article 2043 of the Civil Code. I have also compared myself - and I thank the rapporteur for this - with the case law, imagining, since the first reading of the rule, that it could be changed. I must say that, doing a research, after the Balduzzi law of 2012, there were only four judgments - two of the Milan court, one of Varese and one of Turin - that follow the thesis of the doctor's extra contractual relationship. Four judgments out of about 6,000/8,000 represent a truly ludicrous number. In Italy about 8,000 sentences are issued each year in the direction of recognition of a contractual responsibility of the doctor. The last 30 of the cassation have a certain constancy. I do not take back the numbers to avoid making the Senate's work worse, but I would like to focus on No. 280 of the Supreme Court in 2015, in which the contractual responsibilities of both the doctor and the health structure are basically established, isolating those very few contrary judgments of merit that went in the opposite direction and that I mentioned earlier. By judgment No 64440 of 2015, which dealt with a matter of professional responsibility which saw agreed the health structure and the gynecologist in this case, who was dependent on the health structure, it was reiterated that the unlawful fact is involved in the contractual framework of social contact, according to established jurisprudence of the Court. On this thesis I imagined that I could better solve the problem. However, in reading the phrase with which both the Government and the rapporteur have basically considered to solve the problem (i.e. writing unless they have acted in fulfilling the contractual obligation) and considering that this phrase, according to the understanding of those who propose this type of measure, can thus resolve the problem, I withdraw the amendment that I have outlined. And I have explained this to the effect that the acts remain, because I have the doubt that, despite the good intentions of the legislator, we are not saying that we reach the result in court when there are cases in this matter. With amendment 7.210 I would ask you to include, at the end of paragraph 4, the sentence "does not apply the limit set out in paragraph 3 of Article 138 of that Article. As I have already said in the general debate, I believe that we must remove this limit in order to rely on the actions of the judges, who, on a case-by-case basis, will be better able to adjust the liquidation of the damage to the circumstances of the case. That limit serves in car liability only because it offsets the fact that insurance premiums are calmed down. I do not think that we can put ourselves on the same footing because - I have already said so during the illustration of the previous amendment - we are talking here not about the doctor, but about the health facilities, since the rule concerns the whole system of compensation for the damage and the structure in its entirety. Honestly, I do not think it is right why we have to reduce the damage to the victim by implicitly harming the potential victims and, instead, by favouring health care facilities or insurance if they are to contract a policy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u75	Mr President, I am not going to explain my amendment 7,205, since Senator Cuomo has made a very good presentation of his own which is identical to mine. And for the same reasons, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u76	I would ask Senator Malan, who tabled the following amendment 7,206, identical to the previous 7,204 and 7,205, who have both been withdrawn by the proposers, if he wishes to keep it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u77	Mr. President, I'm keeping it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u78	Mr President, as the rapporteur and the Government are well aware (as they were able to point out in the debate in the 12th Commission), one of the issues on which there has been some criticalness is the action for compensation. Now, there is already a differentiation of the rules between dependent doctors, for whom the claim of compensation refers to the five years, and the self-employed, for whom it is ten. With regard to this, which is one of the most sensitive issues addressed, even in a way that is absolutely consistent with the need, it would be appropriate to provide for a time limit for the action of compensation, which should be fixed in two years; a deadline which should start from the execution of the medical act and not from the mere awareness of the damage. The aim is absolutely understandable and I hope it is also acceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u79	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u80	Mr President, I should like to make a very brief reply on the last thought made by Senator Cuomo. In fact, the measure in its organicity provides compensation for the damages caused both by professionals and by the structures on the basis of tables that provide the qualification and quantification of the so-called moral damage, which is basically the aspect of the most complete personalization of the damage. This amendment would abolish the 30% ceiling. In fact, we all know that an organic bill on the competition market qualifies for this. In the measure there is a specific reference to this aspect and, therefore, everything will take place for the personalization of the damage, which is the theme dear to Senator Cuomo and - I must say - to all, because it gives certainty to the insurance companies and citizens on the fair qualification and quantification of the damage (to be clear, these are the famous tables of Milan). I now turn to the opinions, which are against Amendments Nos 7,200 to 7,207. I call on you to withdraw amendment 7.208, otherwise the opinion will be against it. The opinion is also opposed to Amendments 7,209 to 7,215. Finally, the opinion was in favour of the G7100 agenda and opposed to amendment 7.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u81	The Government's opinion is in line with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u84	RANUCCI (PD). Mr President, I would like to hear the rapporteur's explanations, which I thank, withdraw amendment 7.211.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u85	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 7,200. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,200, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 7.5 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 7,201 tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7.202 tabled by Senator Simeoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.203, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 7,204 and 7,205 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.06.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u88	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to invite everyone, including the rapporteur, to reflect. This is a clarification that you consider included in the draft law. The doubt that has arisen to my colleagues Cuomo, Ranucci and to other hints of different political parts requires a correct legislator to take into account the interpretative doubt that has arisen and to resolve it through specification. It will be a useless expression, but it is preferable to leave it hanging so that you do not know whether custody is understood or not. This will determine an interpretation by the judge and, however, the patient, who interests me the most, will have no certainty about his possibilities. That is why I hope that the rapporteurs and the Government will reconsider the amendment so that there is a rule that is understandable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u89	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.06 tabled by Senators Palma and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.207, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.208, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.209, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 7.210.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u92	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u93	. The Presidency takes note of this. Amendment 7.211 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 7.212, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.212, tabled by Senator Palma and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 7.213 is not possible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.214, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna, identical to amendment 7.215, tabled by Senators Stefani and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G7100 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.0.1, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u94	Mr President, Article 8, on the mandatory attempt to reconcile, is also very controversial in legal terms, because it is going to be inserted in a rather fragmented and difficult legislative context. I have tabled a number of amendments to this article and I have dealt with several lawyers precisely because the issue is already complex from the point of view of the legislative structure and it also becomes complicated to manage this article as proposed. So I'm just going to sum it up. The conciliation procedure, in the context of the mandatory mediation governed by Decree-Law No 69 of 2013 (which moreover follows a procedure entirely analogous to that provided by Article 8 of this draft law and by Article 5 of Decree-Law No 69 of 2013), already establishes itself as a condition of processability for the experiment of the judicial action and as an instrument capable of stimulating the parties to the out-of-court composition of the dispute; it is considered that the introduction of the new procedural instrument, given by the compulsory procedure referred to in Article 698-a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, substantially overlapping the new procedure with the pre-existing one, also poses interpretative problems of coordination precisely with the rules of that Decree-Law No 69 of 2013, which are not expressly repealed by the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u95	Mr President, I shall have to make a not long but articulated explanation, because Amendment 8,201, which I tabled, wants to speak on paragraph 1 of the measure, reinserting the possibility, as an alternative to the mediation procedure referred to in Article 5, to propose as an alternative to the use of the mediation procedure. My colleague, Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri, has tabled a substantially similar proposal, namely amendment 8.06, which, however, does not intervene in paragraph 1, but in paragraph 2. I would not like to dwell on the legislative technique, i.e. whether it is more appropriate to intervene at the beginning of the article in order to better define the two alternatives to which the citizen can refer, but in case I have no difficulty in converging by signing Amendment 8206 by Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri, which I consider to be substantially similar to mine. I repeat to the Government and to the rapporteur the importance of allowing the citizen to use mediation. Therefore, on the basis of the opinions I will be hearing at the end of the amendment, I reserve the right to withdraw amendment 8,201 or to subscribe to Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri's amendment 8,206. At the same time, I would like to end by asking the Government, the Presidency and also the rapporteur to check whether the legislative technique and the lexical evaluation of the amendments will allow us to intervene in paragraph 1 rather than in paragraph 2. This is an exquisitely technical affair, because in essence nothing would change, given that mediation would still be introduced.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u96	Mr President, since Mr Cuomo was so kind as to do at least half of my work, I say to him that I am very happy that he will support my amendment 8206. Therefore, I will carry out the second part of my speech much more succinctly, saying that it is not clear why Article 8 has been thought to explore the possibility of resorting to the forecasts introduced in the legal order by legislative decree n. 28 of 2010, that to article 5, paragraph 1-a, introduces the institute of mediation that in the context of medical and health responsibility in general has had a modest response: in fact, the institute of mediation has recorded about 6.5% of the activities. However, it is not clear why the institute of mediation, which has its own logic and specificity, is supposed to explode. This institution, in fact, has the purpose of removing from the trial, and therefore from the courtroom, a dispute bringing it closer to a mediation that can, extrajudicially, achieve a positive result. On the other hand, there are all the aspects that contribute to supporting the opposite, and in this respect my amendments are formulated: less cost, a deflagrant effect on litigation in courtrooms, and I also believe that greater effectiveness in achieving the result that the parties can achieve in a conciliation that mediation facilitates.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u97	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 8,210. Article 8, on the mandatory attempt to reconcile, is certainly one of the many controversial points of this measure. The amendment I tabled provides for a brief premise to the content of paragraph 3. Before the text of that paragraph, which begins with the words "Where the conciliation fails or the procedure does not end within the period of six months," I ask that the following premise be inserted: In the event that the action for damages resulting from health liability is brought before the Honorary Court, the action shall be brought. Paragraph 3 of Article 8 would follow this hat. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u98	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u99	Mr President, I am against Amendment 8,200. I am against Amendments 8,201, 8,202 and 8,203, which are similar in content. More precisely, as Senator Cuomo has said politely, the invitation is to sign amendment 8206, at the first signature of Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, which technically is better because at the same time abolishes that period which prohibits mediation, so from this point of view it works better; this considering that we have nothing to add on conciliation, because purposes and procedures are already part of the current order. I am against Amendments 8,204 and 8,205. I am in favour of amendment 8206. I am against Amendments 8,207 to 8,223.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u100	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. I would just like to give an element of evaluation. The subject was very technical and very perimeter on relevant competences especially of the Ministry of Justice. Of course, our work in the Commission was in perfect and complete harmony with the Ministry of Justice, which was able to assess, also within its competence, the technical impact of our assessments and our opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u101	Senator Cuomo, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u102	Mr President, following the results of the rapporteur's and the Government's opinions, I withdraw Amendment 8,201 and I would ask you to endorse Amendment 8,206.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u103	Accession has already been made.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u106	RANUCCI (PD). Mr President, I also withdraw Amendments 8,202 and 8,217 and ask Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, as the first signatory, to be able to sign 8,206.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u109	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). President. - I also withdraw amendment 8.203 to sign amendment 8.06 to the first signature of Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u112	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). I would also like to endorse Amendment 8206.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u115	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, I too would like to add the signature to Amendment 8206.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u118	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I too support Amendment 8206, which was first signed by Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri. (Senator Rizzotti indicated that she wanted to sign the amendment.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u121	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). I, too, add my signature to Amendment 8206, President. (Senator Rossi Luciano indicated that he wanted to sign the amendment.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u122	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri has nothing against it. The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u123	In view of the wide-ranging and thorough debate on Article 8, we also call for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u124	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 13.02 p.m. and resumed at 13.22 p.m.) We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 8,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u125	We're asking for a quorum check, dedicated to Senator Zanda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u126	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. In view of the fact that the number of Members present in the Chamber is increasingly decreasing, and I appreciate the circumstances, I shall postpone the continuation of the debate on the drafts of legislation to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u127	I announce that the Conference of Leaders is convened on Tuesday 6 December, at 1 p.m. The Assembly will always meet again on Tuesday 6 December, at 4.30 p.m., with the President's announcements on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u130	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members who are still present. I am, however, kindly asking you, at the next meeting of the group leaders (obviously respecting the autonomy of the Conference's choices), for a sure timetable for this measure which can have a start and an end in the same session: we cannot continue to do the stew and, when there is half an hour, three articles are examined. It is not serious for the value of the provision and for the dignity of this House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u131	Your request will be evaluated at the next Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u132	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-730.ana.u133	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 6 December, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.25 a.m.
