ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 19 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u6	I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u9	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on Thursday 19 May Marco Pannella, one of the greatest protagonists of the political, social and civil history of our country, died. Historical leader of the radical movement, Giacinto Pannella, called Marco, was born in Teramo on May 2, 1930. His figure, complex and lively, is that of a self-defined radical, socialist, liberal, European federalist, anti-clerical, anti-militarist, non-violent and Gandhian man. It was all this and much more, it represented a critical voice, often in advance of the times, and a constant sting for the institutions. In 1955 he was one of the founders - together with Ernesto Rossi, Leo Valiani and Eugenio Scalfari - of the Radical Party of Liberals and Democrats. Several times national and European Parliamentary, he also held the position of municipal councilor in Trieste, Catania, Naples, Teramo, Rome and L'Aquila as well as regional councilor of Lazio and Abruzzo. Secretary of the Radical Party, President of the Transnational Radical Party and of the Marco Pannella list, in 1977 he founded Radio Radicale, a model of public service in the transmission of parliamentary work, political debates and judicial reports. The Pannella action is characterized by the constant use of the methods of non-violent struggle, modelled on the teaching of Gandhi, in order to affirm the legality or - according to his words - the right to life and the life of the law. It is possible to recall only a few aspects of his political life so intense, constantly dedicated to the banner of civil rights and guaranteeing. Pannella is one of the main promoters and protagonists of the campaign for the introduction of divorce, culminated with the clear victory in the May 1974 referendum repeal. Two years earlier, thanks also to a hunger strike, he had helped to obtain the legalization of conscientious objection to military service. Since the end of the 1970s, it has been promoting the radical party's initiatives to abolish public funding of parties, the introduction of legislation on voluntary termination of pregnancy and the legalisation of light drugs. At the beginning of the 1980s, his commitment to the fight against hunger in the world was decisive for the approval of the Piccoli law, on the programs of intervention in areas afflicted by endemic emergency and high mortality rates. After having organized, together with other political forces, the anti-hunting and anti-nuclear referendums, Pannella, also following the clamour aroused by the story of the arrest and condemnation of Enzo Tortora, promotes, in the context of the battles for the "just justice," the victorious referendum on the civil responsibility of the magistrates. At the end of the 1980s he was responsible for the transformation of the Radical Party into a "transnational" and "transparty" movement, focused on the objectives of the United States of Europe, the moratorium on the death penalty in the world and the universal affirmation of human rights. Since 2002, with the foundation of the Association Luca Coscioni, the commitment focuses on freedom of scientific research, freedom of care, the legalization of euthanasia and biological will, the rejection of therapeutic aggression. Among the battles of recent years, we remember that for the improvement of living conditions in Italian prisons and to solve the problem of the overcrowding of prisons. To this end, in 2011, Pannella conducted his longest hunger strike with courage and determination, lasting about three months. It is from that period the convention "Justice! In the name of the law and the sovereign people, held precisely with the participation of Marco Pannella, on 28 and 29 July 2011 at the Zuccari Hall of Palazzo Giustiniani, strongly wanted by the vice president of the Senate Emma Bonino, who is present in the gallery and who greets. [[Live, prolonged applause.]] As a testimony to the unselfish commitment to legality and democracy, I would like to recall his statement, particularly significant also of the human trait and of the deep and sincere love for Italy: Someone asked me what would be the first measure I would take if I were democratically elected President. Well, the first measure I would take would be to resign, because if the country democratically elected me, it would mean that it no longer needs me. The certificates of affection of thousands of citizens in these days have demonstrated the deep bond that in his life he has been able to establish with the country; even those who have not shared his battles and his political positions have not failed to recognize the feeling of esteem for an opponent who has always made politics and never sought power. In representing the emotional participation of the Senate of the Republic in the pain of its comrades and the radical political community, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute of recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u12	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, Minister, fellow senators, Marco Pannella has never been a member of this House, but there is no doubt that two very important events in his political battle are connected to the Senate, two relatively recent events. Mr President, towards the second half of the last parliamentary term, on the initiative and sensitivity of his predecessor, his friend Renato Schifani, Marco Pannella, held a very important meeting on justice issues at Palazzo Giustiniani in July and it was on that occasion that our colleague Giorgio Napolitano, who honours this Assembly, took the floor to mature that message of solidarity and sharing with the battle of Marco Pannella for amnesty, for the indult and for the condition of prisons. Once again Head of State, Napolitano Day would then transfer the sense of that intervention into a message to the House and the Senate. Perhaps, Mr President, we have been somewhat distracted and we have not paid due attention to that message from the Head of State. Today, however, there is a different situation. At the Ministry of Justice is Mr Orlando, a far from political representative of mine; however, with the composure that suits those in this House who are in opposition, I must say that I was very impressed by the far from flattering balance with which I heard on the radio a statement from Minister Orlando of this kind: I listened to Marco Pannella's words. Maybe they didn't convince me, but as often happens with him, there is some trace. I therefore believe that, not necessarily in memory of Marco Pannella, as I wanted to do yesterday with the initiative that I appreciated by my colleague Manconi, let us try in this legislative end to break down that obnoxious constitutional wall that was erected in the wake of mass moralism (which I do not call justiceism); with that constitutional wall, in fact, with the majority of the two-thirds required for each article, the way to measures of clemency is precluded and in fact expelled from the Constitution. Marco Pannella, however, was certainly all this and also much more. His most recent initiative here in the Senate was last summer. It was attended by the friend undersecretary Benedetto Della Vedova. It was an international initiative, for the rule of law - as he liked to say - against the reason of state. The expression "against the reason of State" meant for Marco Pannella the classic opposition of the rule of law not to the reason of State, which has a previous history and which even anticipates the modern states, but to the ethical state. Marco Pannella crossed, sometimes confused many political traditions, but where there was the bad smell of the ethical state, Marco Pannella was ready to change sidewalks. It can be significant that, when he wanted to draw a review of himself and his political experience - we were in September 2014 - he made a beautiful conference and chose as his reference Benedict Cross, which means the rule of law. Benedetto Croce in Abruzzo meant for Marco Pannella his indispensable trust in the national state. Yes, Mr President, Marco Pannella was all you said: radical, liberal, anti-militarist, but Marco Pannella always had a deep respect and affection for the tradition of the historical right, which then came, colleagues, from the center-left of Cavour and Rattazzi. The next day Pescasseroli, we went to the Marsica and talked about the other great reference of Marco Pannella, Ignazio Silone, and Christian socialism. That can only be, friends you come from the PC, anti-communist because Italy did not have Léon Blum, like France, but had Ignazio Silone and, skilicet, his former secretary Rino Formica. You can't ignore him. I think this is the best way to remember Marco Pannella here in the Senate this morning. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u15	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, the death of Marco Pannella has certainly left an important vacuum in Italian politics. "I don't share your idea, but I would give my life so that you can express it." This phase, attributed to Voltaire, a French philosopher of 1700, adapts well to the state of mind that today, we of the League, have on the occasion of the memory of Marco Pannella, recently disappeared. Many battles he conducted inside and outside the parliamentary classrooms did not share them, nor did we support them. We have strongly disagreed with him all the times that, in our opinion, he dealt with some issues, especially ethical ones, such as abortion, too casually. At the same time, we must remember the political issues that have seen us close to each other and for which we have achieved successes with the 1995 referendum in favour of the privatisation of RAI, the repeal of the rule that requires the automatic trade union contribution to workers, the repeal of the rule on precautionary residence for those accused of Mafia crimes. We think it's right to remember him as a fighter. It's its characteristic trait. He was engaged in the fight against poverty and hunger in the world and in prison crowding, even though we had and proposed radically solutions - it is not a day of words - different from these: he with a dangerous laxity, which even led him to support the liberalisation and decriminalization of the use of drugs, we with the will to build new prisons. Marco, however, was one who always put his face and courage on us, at the cost of losing his life with, at times, irresponsible strikes of hunger and thirst, without hypocrisies or conveniences of the case, unlike many politicians who exalted him to death despite having hated him alive. We preferred to steal from this game and, as a League Group, both in the House and in the Senate we did not follow this ritual. We preferred to avoid pathetic parades and performances in favor of cameras, but we believe it is necessary to remember the man for his long and stainless political commitment and for having engraved with his work in fifty years of history our country. I, with his radical radio surgeries, learned to turn on the radio in my car to listen to him. In these days there has been talk of the will to call it a street or a square. Someone even talked about titled a few prisons. It is clear that those who potentially read his name on a road plate will probably consider him a good ghost. Probably not at all. As will be explained to the new generations, his was a stormy presence and, as someone has defined it, also intractable. One who would never give up what he had to say and do what he had to do, to the point of putting his life in danger. Life that has been marked by long strikes of hunger and thirst. Sometimes he said a lot, a lot, especially when he wore a gag. We, as League, remember it this way. But from my side it is said that when the nas a ié töc bei, when the sa spusa a ié töc brae, when the mör a ié töc sae, which means that when they are born they are all beautiful, when they get married they are all good and when they die they were all good people. The problem is that a flood of ink has been spent these days on Pannella. Perhaps we consider it a due act, but not always with a lucidity were described the man and the potential non-friends he had. He was a man with a straight back. We have always considered him such and our leader, Matteo Salvini, has praised his political depth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u18	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the roots of the political and cultural formation of Marco Pannella lead us on an original and unusual ground. Marco was a liberal, and the contamination of his original liberalism with reasons proper to the right shareholder led him on the one hand to appreciate the contribution made by the historical right to the birth of the country and, on the other, in apparent contradiction with this sensitivity, to develop a more liberal vision than Crusader in the economic field. However, Pannella would not be understood without considering the influence of the new American left on how to do politics even before on the ideal ground. Non-violence comes from overseas, the use of the body as an instrument of communication and political struggle, the preference for minority actions that could win the majority by acting outside the palace and, indeed, in opposition to it. The Radical Party of Pannella, unlike that of Pannunzio, Scalfari and those who went with them in the evening in via Veneto, was a post-sixty-eight phenomenon. I would say that it was the liberalism possible after that season that, especially in the youth field, upset the world. It was the Sixty-eight liberal and libertarian who did not involve sectarian and hyper-ideological groups. "You are a revolutionary" wrote Pannella to Andrea Valcarenghi in the preface of "Underground" with a closed fist. "I love the objectors, the outlaws of marriage, the under-proletarian hair amphetamines, the Czechoslovaks of spring, the nonviolent, the libertarians, the true believers, the feminists, the homosexuals, the bourgeois like me, the people with his intelligent qualunquism and his sad despair. I love ancient hopes, such as woman and man; political ideals as old as the century of light, the bourgeois revolution, anarchist songs and the thought of the historical Right. Precisely for these reasons, in the 1970s the Radical Party played a fundamental role in the social and political formation of young people of that decade. My own path is a testimony to this. I studied in a high school that hosted all the formations of the extreme left, the Communist-Italian Youth Federation and only one fascist. That group of radicals was an anchor of salvation for those who wanted to escape the drugs of the twentieth century ideologies. Even when it took its distance from that experience, as it happened to me at 22 years after being Marco's national deputy secretary, it remained a point of reference, precious also to conceive different ideas and sometimes even antithetic or antagonistic. Today, free and generous places of formation, such as the Radical Party of Pannella, no longer exist. And this is a dry loss that affects the quality of the political class and therefore the wealth of the nation itself. That was the golden age of the Radical Party and its leader. In the years of the so-called First Republic his battles and the instrument of the referendum, which he later abused, shocked a political system then sclerotized around the imperfect bipartyism interpreted by two church parties. When the radicals entered Parliament in 1976, they were the first truly new formation to succeed. The great victories, from the divorce to the battle over Enzo Tortora, all belong to this historical period. It is not difficult to understand why, with the inauguration of the so-called second Republic, the political and human story of Pannella, while continuing to interpret a testimony in some cases at the limit of heroism, loses weight and political impact. The problem is that the bipolar dynamic that during the first phase of the Pannella Republic had managed to impose on its battles, cutting across the official politics and splashing it, fighting for a mutual and general legitimacy that led him to be the first leader to take part in a congress of the Italian Social Movement of Almirante, and fighting all kinds of crime of opinion, starting from 1994 becomes the rule of operation of the system. In some ways, bipolarism is secularized. And the culture of civil rights itself gradually ceases to identify itself with the defense of a minority in order to become a mass culture. In the 1970s he had dedicated two beautiful anthology articles to him: I am referring to Pier Paolo Pasolini, who, in the intervention prepared for a radical Congress and posthumous bed after his brutal assassination in Ostia, addressed Marco and Gianfranco Spadaccia (who honored the Aules of the Senate and whom I see today in the gallery and greetings), begged them to remain unrecognizable, to prevent civil rights from becoming the official ideology of mass hedonism and, by that way, to be conformism. Pannella did not take that risk, but he could not avoid - and he probably never even wanted it - that the mass Radical Party, as Augusto Del Noce had understood, was born elsewhere. At this stage of Marco's activity, there is no shortage of thrilling insights, such as the understanding that globalisation would shift the frontiers of the political struggle and that Europe, outside the horizon set by De Gasperi and Spinelli, would risk implosion. However, when one looks at the transnational Radical Party and at the attempt to reform international law, one realizes how a political man who so far refused to conceive politics as the management of the existing to try to determine what possible through politics, had ended up a little out of the game, imagining politics as the creation of the impossible. This is why his journey in recent years is closer to a more secularly religious dimension than immediately political: the relationship with the Dalai Lama and the same letter written to Pope Francis before he died are evidence of this. However, beyond the exemplary path, there remains something urgent to reflect on beyond the tributes of manner. It is something that unites the first and second phases of the political Pannella: they are the acribia and the rigor, from the historical right, with which it has always insisted for the respect of the rules. Hence the attention to the quality of legislation as a prerequisite for the rule of law and the nourishment of guaranteeing; hence, as mentioned above, the aversion to the criminalization of any opinion and to any crime of opinion; hence, finally, the understanding that in modern political societies the fullness of the right to information, access to the media and the possibility for all to adequately expose their ideas, are essential for a democracy to be effectively liberal without running the risk of becoming mere superstructure. These intuitions, exposed in a sometimes prolix, insistent, provocative way, using an original and disordered lexicon, drawing new words from that basket of which De Gregori said, remain living matter on which, beyond the time of the commemorations and beyond the ideal belongings that divide us in this Assembly, we should reflect to honor his memory, the memory of Marco Pannella. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u21	Mr Barani (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, Marco was for me, as well as a radical comrade - I have always been a member of the Radical Party - a Socialist comrade: he was enrolled in the PSI from 1987 to 1992, Craxian like me at that time. He has militated in many parties: from the Liberal Party to the Rose in the Fist, but with only the thread of conduct his Radical Party. I remember his way of dressing with jeans. I am one of those who brought a bunch of red carnations to the House to remember it and I did it with great emotion. On Thursday we often met: "Thursday gnocchi!," he told me and went to eat gnocchi, with his reflections, his comments, his gossip, his passions, his transnationality and even in the last period - although he did not convert - his reflection on the theme of the Afterlife. I remember his long reflections at "Radio Radicale" (Radio Radicale), his civil battles. He told me that I had the pen as a working tool, others the computer; he as a working tool had the referendum and the over 60 million signatures he collected together with the radicals are the example. Obviously we talked and commented about those were his battles, his fasts: the hunger strike, that of thirst. He joked about his metabolic acidosis which, he said, stimulated him to reflect and give more; his civil disobedience (he was arrested), his sit-ins. He made me the joke that I as mayor of Aulla had made the City depietrized and he had to descalfarizzare: he considered it a mistake that he had made in the nineties. This is Marco Pannella: a volcanic politician we are remembering, but in the way he would not want; he would like us to remember him with practicality. I must tell you that in 2013 he gave me a text to which I signed (he was not in the Senate), which is the Senate Act 1081, concerning the granting of amnesty and indult. Colleagues, that text bears my signature but he gave it to me, it was written by him and is here in the Senate. Here, we should remember Marco Pannella only by approving this act and not by spending words: he needs this. It is important that Mr Manconi has dedicated a constitutional reform bill to him by his name, but there is an act here that is his; it does not bear his name but he did it, only him. Go read it, to understand how important that message that sent us is. I believe that this is the best way to remember it for its volcanicity, but also for its far-sightedness. I also believe that we must correct a wrong, and that is why, as a Group, we propose that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Senate - also because he was President of the Senate of the Transnational Radical Party - should name him, in his memory, with a posthumous recognition, a senator for life. We owe him this too, because Marco Pannella should have been awarded this office, since his far-sightedness, his civil battles and his strength were the guiding thread and umbilical cord from the so-called first Republic to the second, the third, the fourth, to the present day. We obviously participate in the pain of all the comrades and friends who have lost him and who no longer have a point of reference, that we believe must instead be remembered, for what has been, even through the approval of the Act Senate 1081, which concerns him; then so that we have honored his memory, otherwise would be the usual words in the wind, that absolutely "do not make flour". [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u24	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact of commemorating Marco Pannella for me is not just a feeling of heartfelt esteem, but a sincere human and political recognition to a reformer to whom all of us - honestly - owe something. Those who have mentioned it publicly in recent days have traced the figure of Pannella as a political man, as a friend, as a colleague and some have even remembered anecdotes of common battles and political confrontations. Personally I have never met him, yet I feel involved and genuinely excited to remember his personality, so eccentric, dreaming, often provocative, tenacious, but always honest and coherent. In the last few days I have been thinking a lot about his ideas; I have retraced his courageous political life in memories as a mere citizen. One aspect, however, always occurred in my mind: the way to interpret democracy, direct democracy, in the noblest and most authentic sense of the word. With him he triumphed the most genuine vision of the popular will, capable of representing the foundation of our political and social action. I believe that, better than anyone else, during his political life he has been able to teach us the importance and deep meaning of freedom, value which is often appreciated only in material terms than moral. Another essay that has left us lately, that is Umberto Eco, defined Marco Pannella as the one who taught Italians how to become free, and above all to deserve it. He brought with him, until the last few days, a great ideal, which he himself called a dream: to extend the social base of participation, also through the referendary way, to political and democratic life, actively involving young people, citizens, anti-conformists, those who did not always recognize themselves in a political party or in a well-defined ideology. In the footsteps of Ernesto Rossi and Altiero Spinelli, he sensed and denounced among the first the crisis of the national state, even when formally democratic, its inadequacy to address the great issues of our time and the dangers that the illusion of the absolute sovereignty of the national state carries with it. Pannella called for the European Homeland against the Europe of the Patriies and welcomed the courage and political leadership of the Dalai Lama in calling for, for the Tibetan people, not independence, but autonomy, that is, the federalist perspective that can bring rights and freedoms also for the Chinese and not only for the Tibetans. He has undoubtedly been a great man of democratic institutions and a great protagonist in the political life of our country. He had a demanding idea of the politics, federal of Europe, secular of the state and respectful of the individual rights of the person. His battles are a testimony: just think of those on divorce, abortion, LGBT rights and ecology (when still a green party was not there), for the affirmation of anti-prohibitionist policies on drugs, against hunger in the world or against the inhumanity of Italian prisons, for a more just justice and for the right of people to die with dignity. Colleagues, let's tell the truth, today we wouldn't talk so serenely about some themes and problems if he hadn't been there - with his methods and provocations - to open our eyes. Not today, but 30 years ago. Whatever judgment Pannella wishes to give, it has helped to make Italy a more modern, more civilised and freer country. This is his true legacy, which goes beyond the ideologies and individual battles waged in his long career. In conclusion, today we would be mistaken to consider this real Pannella preaching as outdated or utopian. Pannella spoke to us - and the Radical Party will continue to talk to us - about a political urgency for today, which this Parliament and our institutions should take on. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u27	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, first of all, as senators of the Mixed Group and of the Italian Left-SEL, we want to express our closeness to the Radical Party and to the companions of a lifetime, until the last member. With Marco Pannella we shared many battles: every time it was a matter of widening civil rights and freedoms in this country we found ourselves on the same side. I want to remember not only the battles that everyone remembers, those for divorce and abortion, that made Italy make a leap of civilization, but also those, perhaps more uncomfortable, such as the battle guarantee, those for the defense of democratic guarantees or those, for example, the referendums on the Royal Law or on Law 40, on nuclear, on hunting, on pesticides and, above all, the battles for the rights of prisoners. I quote this last question not only because on this front Pannella has literally committed himself to the last day of his life, but also because this sacrosanct battle has certainly not yet become part of the common sense of the Italians and our country and certainly of the parliamentary political agenda. There has been talk of it many times, announcements have been made, but things have gone differently. The only way to remember and honor Marco is to take it back and continue it with his own determination. It would be good if the many who in the last few days praised his causes and his person now followed their words, putting on the agenda those interventions of civilization and humanity on prisons that have always been guilty of failure, signing, for example, the bill that Senator Manconi presented in these last hours on the Amnesty and Indult. Marco Pannella's battles have been countless, too many to name them one by one, but in these campaigns, which for decades have followed one after the other and which could sometimes appear almost random, there was always a common figure: Pannella fought for a rigorous implementation of constitutional legality and the rule of law. He believed that until the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution had all become a reality lived daily, the Constitution could not have been defined as fulfilled or reversed. Even behind causes that seemed far from this, such as the one for the liberalisation of cannabis or the one to which it had dedicated itself in recent years for the right to knowledge, the idea of having to make our Constitution and legality an effective and living reality was always present. In these battles Pannella has put everything at stake himself, his body and many times his health, in that non-violent struggle that he taught many of us to question the principle that the end justifies the means because very often the means, if wrong, change - indeed - the end. I must honestly say that we did not all share those battles, but we have always recognized them as honesty, coherence and absolute disinterest. That is why we have never seen him as an opponent even when we were defending different and opposite principles - as happened on the trade union rights front or on certain choices of economic policy or armed intervention, for example, in the former Yugoslavia. Pannella proclaimed himself and was a liberal-democratic and, unlike many others who call themselves liberals and Democrats, he really was. For those who come from a different political culture it was consoling and fruitful to be able to confront with a liberal-democratic who was not just such in name, because it was all the more so. Last week, after his death, followed by a long illness fought with the tenacity that belonged to him, we discovered that this closeness was shared by millions of Italian citizens. I believe that the vast resonance and deep emotion that his death has caused throughout the country reveals that to Marco many people, many citizens, have a precise and affectionate feeling: gratitude. They are grateful to him not only because in large part thanks to the commitment of the Radical Party today they have rights that modify and improve the quality of their lives, but also because those battles, those hammering campaigns, which at times seemed obsessive, have imperceptibly modified something deep in the common sense of the country and in themselves: those campaigns have educated many to the conscience and awareness of their rights. Pannella had chosen to make politics like this: changing the common sense to influence legislative choices, but also, in the opposite direction, using the laws to modify the common sense and move it further and further on in the path of a free society. He wanted to be, and to a very large extent succeeded in being, a politician of the street and institutions at the same time. Marco Pannella was also a pioneer in the personalization of politics, in the sense that he put his person at stake. Whoever knew him knows how histrionic, dramatic, often even narcissistic he was. But he never pushed personalization to the point of transforming his party, of which he was also an undisputed leader, into a "party of the leader," that is, into a party that had as its compass the personal success of his leader or his group leader. The compass always remains that of the objectives, the idea of society, of legality, of the rule of law that the radicals had in mind. Of the panelling model, today's personalized parties took only the zest, never the essence. I believe that Marco Pannella deserves from everyone, from those who shared his battles as from those who opposed them, a simple recognition: he was one of the few political leaders who knew how to make this country better. That is why I believe - and I am sorry to say this here in this House - that it deserved the appointment of a lifetime senator that many of us had hoped for but which unfortunately never arrived. Hi, Marco. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u30	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, the sympathy of my Group and my staff goes not only to the Pannella family, but to the militants, to all those who have wanted to believe in its battles, to Rita Bernardini and to my former vice-president of the Senate Emma Bonino, companion with me of many institutional activities planned in the logic of relations with Europe, in the logic of protecting the defence of human rights; a person whom I thank for being here, thank you for being there, thank you for your battles, that we are sure will continue to do with the support of all those who believed in Emma's commitment and in the commitment of Marco Pannella. [[Applause.]] I have so many memories of Marco and, therefore, I did not want to prepare anything written, Mr President, because when people are known, letters are useless and words sometimes have to be weighed with sentiment. By Marco I remember the strength of his battles, the instinct of a convinced feeling aimed at realizing what was his dream: a just justice, a prison state that could bring our country to acceptable levels of quality of prison life, festivities and Christmases past, perhaps together with Rita Bernardini and sometimes with Emma Bonino, to visit the prisoners. (10.25 a.m.) (Follows SCHIFANI). I remember his long fasts; a long fast saw me as a visitor and his guest when I was President of the Senate: we were together talking about problems relating to justice, the duration of trials, the state of detention. Some other battles have not seen us on the same level, such as that on euthanasia; but it is normal, in the life of politics, that the unique thought of sharing does not exist. Marco Pannella leaves us a will, a great will: politics is the strong feeling of knowing how to make battles and take courageous choices (such as his fasts, which probably led him to a long illness), without interest and without any return, but only with the sharing of those who believe in those battles and in the strength of those battles. Marco was like that. I remember so many telephone debates about "Radio Radicale" when I was a Parent Company, with our dear friend Alessio Falconio, who now directs "Radio Radicale" and who used to work here in the Senate for "Radio Radicale." There is a whole story that saw me following his battles with him, for example when it came to working so that the reasonable duration of the trial could be carried out. Marco Pannella has denounced the story of Enzo Tortora; from the beginning, from the first lines of the story Tortora, Marco believed in the innocence of Enzo Tortora, challenging a country that thought differently. When you are so and when you assume this strong identity, characterly indestructible, you can only leave a great will, a testament of coherence, strength, transparency of your battles, until you suffer from it. Here, I think that politics must reflect on what Marco leaves us and on the life of Marco Pannella. I truly hope that those who will inherit his witness - and I am sure of that, because I know the people who are listening to me - will be able to interpret well what has been his path, so that we, as a country, need people like Marco Pannella to carry on these battles, can carry on the ethical issues of the quality of life of people, justice and human rights. Thank you, Marco Pannella. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u33	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I do not want to make a hypocritical commemoration of Marco Pannella in this speech. Perhaps, in order to truly pay homage to his person and to one of the great men of the history of Italy, I can then take inspiration from his own words, which have defined the 5 Star Movement as a lucky incident against the partycracy. That is precisely why I want to tell you that, when my Group asked me to intervene to make this commemoration, I felt a certain embarrassment, because it was for me to pay homage to someone I did not initially know. Then I reflected well on what Marco Pannella was and realized that instead he was also part of my life, as in the life of all Italians. He was a man, first of all, and then a politician, but in my opinion, in some ways, Marco Pannella was also a great artist of politics, a real political icon. He was an artist in the sense that he did and said things before everyone else. Today we find ourselves, together with many others, doing or not doing things, simply because maybe Marco Pannella had already done them or had not done them. I can recall, for example, that Marco Pannella wrote many articles, also hosted on Beppe Grillo's blog, between 2006 and 2010, on the themes of death in prison and prohibitionism; we have respected and nicely contested several times. "Agorà" was the first widespread experience of the Internet, born in 1993 at the initiative of radicals. In 1993 e-mails cost 200 lire and with 50,000 lire you could have an account on the website "agora.it", a portal with all the websites of politics and the first web chats; a truly pioneering aspect, which today seems even prehistory. Like many artists, Marco Pannella unfortunately also left us with many battles still to be fought. For example, I remember the use of his figure and that of his comrades in the media. The use of the media to amplify matters was, in fact, a distinctive feature of its way of doing politics. I remember how I can do that, because - I repeat - I don't want to be hypocritical. When my father, in the mid-1980s, announced to me, then a teenager, that in the next election he would vote for the radicals and therefore for Marco Pannella, I did not understand that choice and indeed considered it a ridiculous and poor fact, just because perhaps my father had stolen from myself that part of anger and anxiety that belonged to me as a teenager, taking it from him. A few years later, when I entered the age of first maturity, I understood the choice he made and I think that the time was right. Like all the great artists, Marco Pannella found himself alone fighting, because he had perceived, he had understood what others had probably not even seen; for this reason many of his battles are still to be fought; of course, many of them also won: let us think of public funding for parties, his renunciation of vitality, the fight for the liberalisation of soft drugs, his fight for Tibet and his friendship with the Dalai Lama, his fight against the partycracy and the choice to use parliamentary immunity against parliamentary immunity. We cannot say that the world against which it fought no longer exists, but for those who were its main traits it has transformed: the political forum has become talk-show, public funding to parties has become the Boccadutri law, the party-cracy has become lobbyism. Marco Pannella wrote on our blog that oil was the fuel of corruption and parties and this phrase has probably become a phone call to a comrade to announce the approval of an amendment. I personally will bring with me the memory that I have since Marco Pannella's boyfriend: a man with white hair who wanted to improve our country. I don't know if he ever said our slogan "Let's send them all home," but I'm sure at least once in his life he thought so. Greetings to Marco Pannella. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u36	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in October 1989 Marco Pannella, together with his colleagues Loredana De Petris, Valentini, Tocci and myself, was elected to the City Council in Rome, but six months later he gave his place to Luigi Cerina, a HIV-positive who put the City Council in Rome in a brutal way in the face of a real and serious problem, that of living with a person sick of a serious illness, incurable and whose medicines were in the primordial state. That experience enriched the City Council, taught all 79 city councillors to live with one person, with embarrassments, inconveniences and complications, which resolved within a few weeks enriching the Council. Marco Pannella has always followed the events of the Council in which he was elected until the self-dissolution that we operated in 1993. I think that even radical friends Bonino, Spadaccia and Bernardini in this House have not shared all his battles at 100%, because his battles have been many and some contradictory, but I think that there is no one in the country and in this House who has not shared at least some of them, then of course there has been a graduality. Marco Pannella has greatly innovated politics, even in tones, using anti-conventional, transgressive and resounding mechanisms, which were then copied, with a big difference: Marco Pannella used those tools to exalt real ideas and real problems; often now these mechanisms are used to cover the vacuum, the zero tire. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] He dealt with practical things; he asked for money because he knew that a machine had to be run: to create and feed the Radical Radio. I am sure that no one who gave Marco Pannella a lira, a euro or help has ever expected any kind of gratitude, direct or indirect, because he was an absolutely free person, of head and of thought. The Italian judicial system is a service for the country that does not work well: it is slow and slow civil and criminal trials; the conditions of prisoners are often too unfair. I think that if for once in these government benches he sat down as Minister of Justice Pannella, he would have tried to shake. I'm not sure it would have solved the problems; perhaps in some cases it would have created them, but I think it would have put in a position that perhaps the country would have been useful. Finally, I think it was a real pity that he was not appointed senator for life; he would have deserved it because he certainly contributed to make Italy a freer, more open and tolerant country. [[Applause.]] Surely he would have deserved it and surely from these benches it would have been an incentive for the Senate to work more and better in favor of the citizens. I think we should respectfully pay homage to him. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u39	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I begin this brief speech by greeting Emma Bonino with affection and by saying that I very much feel her call to be neither hypocrites nor conformists in talking about Marco Pannella and his extraordinary personality. Pannella has made politics his whole life leading his battles on solitary rights and with his radical friends. He knew how to choose the targets and, with his corsair ship, he started the attack without caring for parliamentary majorities and without being conditioned by social conventions. He fought politically in law and with law. I have shared many of the contents of his battles, starting from a different point: I have always believed in the Republic of parties, provided for by our Constitution, which Marco branded in block as "partitocracy", a word together just and unjust because it does not distinguish between good and evil, between the degenerations of politics and those who hold firm the constitutional and republican spirit. It is clear that the great popular parties are less rapid in decisions, more awkward in the internal organization and they know that rights must be accompanied by duties and feel the weight of the concrete condition of things and the hardness of reality, and, in order not to remain firm at the starting point, they often seek mediation, agreements and graduality; but from a democratic point of view, the great popular parties are representative, stable and therefore necessary. These two realities, on the one hand the corsair ship of the Radical Party, and on the other the great representative force of the Democratic Party, are the basic reason for the different position of two forces that have often shared analysis and objectives, up to being sometimes present in the same lists in the political elections, such as Emma, elected in 2008 to the Senate as the most welcome and beloved leader of the Democratic Party in Piedmont and then Vice President of the Senate. Despite the differences, even deep ones, that have always marked not personal but only political distances, I want to say here, recalling Marco Pannella, that his function in Republican Italy was very high, relevant, incisive. One can say, knowing to tell the truth, that Marco Pannella was in many circumstances the salt of Italian politics. He provoked us, kept us awake, incited us and put us before the great problems of the world: from the need to abolish the death penalty to the urgency to stop female genital mutilation. Equally great, compared to their limited parliamentary power, was the political role of the many radical militants who, together with shareholders, republicans, social democrats, greens and liberals, all part of small or very small parties, have sprayed Italian democracy with political culture; they have matured and made it more modern. Together with Pannella, for many decades radicals have reminded us that sometimes it is not necessary to have the power to give itself great goals and, if you are good, to win. Marco Pannella is remembered and respected as an influential protagonist of great battles that have ferryed a sleepy Italy in the era of modernity. Battles on the rights carried out by small minorities and battles on the rights made own by all Italian democrats. We can in fact say, without fear of being denied, that much of the objectives that Pannella has given himself in his long life of civil struggles, even if at the start promoted by a few, in the end were shared by large majority of citizens, even by many who were politically distant from him. So it was certainly also for me, that I have never been radical but that, I want to repeat, I have often shared the intentions of the battles that Marco Pannella launched or appropriated. Among all of them I would like to mention one, which seems to me particularly noble, disinterested and significant: its crusade against the overcrowding of Italian prisons for which, in 2013, Italy was condemned by the European Court of Human Rights. Over the last two years, Italy, also supported by the touching message to the Parliament of President Napolitano, has done much to eliminate that emergency and to restore dignity to human beings closed to each other in the cells of our prisons. It is for the great work of the Government and of many, very good, prison workers, that the population of the prisoners has drastically decreased and the number of admitted to those alternative measures to prison that produce less relapses and more security has greatly increased. The reasons for the condemnation of the European Court of Human Rights have thus failed and Italy has been given back the respect of the international community. Minister Andrea Orlando, who is here today in the Chamber, said that what little or much Italy could do to make our prisons more human would never have been possible without the push of two people: one is Pope Francis and the other is Marco Pannella. Pannella, I am sure, would have appreciated this loyal and well-deserved recognition from the government. But he would certainly not have missed the opportunity to tell us, with his well-known intransigence, that our work on prisons is not over and that we must not stop until we have fully respected the constitutional dictation that imposes that penalties cannot consist of treatments contrary to the sense of humanity and must aim for the re-education of the condemned. In the intransigence of the defence of the rights of the people that no one ever defends there is the root not only of the charism of which Pannella has enjoyed throughout his life, but also of the wide and sincere emotion that accompanied his illness and his disappearance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u40	You have asked the Minister for Justice, Mr Orlando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with sincere emotion that I take the floor in this House to recall the figure of Marco Pannella. I do not want the words and accents that have been heard, even in this House, in the last few days and even in the past few weeks, to fade or pass, in conjunction with the worsening of its health. Words are very important and must be watched when one remembers a politician and a public man. They are even more so when you remember a figure like Marco Pannella, because, throughout his life, words were the main weapon of his non-violent battles. In the political communication of Italy of the seventies, swamped and still nineteenth century, its slogans, its invectives and its provocative expressions constituted an undoubted innovation in communication. It could be said that then the road was opened to instruments so used and even abused today. You could say that, but you would be wrong because Pannella's slogans did not serve banality and were not in support of easy words. Of course, Pannella conducted battles that were somehow asserting themselves in society and used watchwords that somehow corresponded to social questions that were consolidating, but also led battles that appeared to the Italian society lunar and distant. At the service of these battles he put his ability to communicate, using also new tools not to seek easy consent, but even to sow anxiety and ask questions, because they were the other side of those torrential communications, of those speeches made of parental and incidental phrases and digressions of which one could not, if not at times with difficulty, follow the thread, because they were the opposite of trivialization, constituting the attempt to make the complexity of the time that we were and are going through. Many wanted to show their affection and greet Marco Pannella in the house in via della Panetteria, where I myself went, accompanied by four prisoners from the Roman prison of Rebibbia. It is a beautiful custom for radicals to visit the penitentiary institutions during the Easter Triduum and other festivities commanded. This year the health conditions did not allow Pannella to leave his home and so I thought to give him this visit to show him my sincere gratitude for the commitment that has always been made by Italian radicals and by himself for the rights of prisoners. The prison - I use his words - cannot be a structure of social persecution for the solution of two problems that we do not know otherwise how to deal with: drug use and illegal immigration. In Piazza Navona, on the occasion of the last greeting, I recognized with equal sincerity that what has been done on Italian prisons in recent years (the spotlight that we have tried to light to improve the conditions of detention and return to the penalty the sense of humanity that the Constitution assigns to it) we owe it first of all to him and to Pope Francis. Perhaps this approach between the old radical, libertarian and anticlerical leader, and the Jesuit Catholic Pope, who came from a country to the end of the world, can succeed singularly; but there is a word, indeed a principle that brings them closer and that can bring so many of us together: the dignity of man. This whole secular faith in the dignity of man, supported by a faith equally robust in law and freedom, constituted the polar star of the political and intellectual adventure of Marco Pannella; the slogans used against demagogy and not in favor of it. I believe that there is nothing more true in affirming this, in remembering perhaps its last battle, that, precisely, for the conditions of the prisoners; that of putting oneself, in a frightened society, dominated by the entrepreneurs of fear, supported by a media industry that often makes fear the main business, here, in this stormy, get on the side of Cain. I believe that precisely this demonstrates that faith in the freedom and dignity of man, perhaps more than any other battle. In an article that first appeared in a Spanish newspaper in 1987, Leonardo Sciascia - who was a friend of Pannella and was close to the radicals to the point of accepting from them the candidacy both to the European Parliament and to the House - wrote: Pannella, and not many people who think and feel like him (among whom I am honored to be) find themselves fulfilling a very burdensome and difficult task: reminding the immemorial of the existence of the right and claiming this existence in the face of the games of power that precisely, in the void of law, or in its twist, Italian politics leads. It was not a flattering judgment, for Italian politics, while it certainly was for Marco Pannella. It is true that Pannella has dedicated his life to the battles for the rule of law and legality, and it is also true that he was wary of power, which often overwhelms or upsets, with its undeniable component of violence, distorts, tramples on the rules of law and democracy. I would not be sincere to the very end, we would not all be, in this House, if we were to say that we certainly share the idea, that Sciascia recalls and that many times Pannella has repeated, at times shouted, that the political history of our country has been burdened by the unbearable weight of the party-cracy. I also believe, like Emanuele Macaluso - who spoke about it indicating a fundamental difference from the thought of Pannella - that, perhaps, precisely the crisis of the parties, which has marked these last years, shows how from it a greater weakness comes, not a greater robustness of the institutions of the Republic. Yet, in his denunciation and inability to grasp that complaint, there is a great piece of irresponsibility of the ruling classes who could not see the crisis of that system and the need to react to that crisis. My story of democratic and anti-fascist Italy, born of the Resistance, would therefore differ in many points from that offered by Pannella, but it remains healthy for the quality of our democracy and its never sufficient rate of freedom that exercise of distrust towards the power that Pannella has never stopped recommending. A very influential French scholar, Pierre Rosanvallon, spoke of counter-democracy, about those forms of unconventional politics to which the democratic experiences of Western countries evolve. I believe that the Italian radicals and Marco Pannella fully subscribe to this picture. This is not a rejection of policy or of the institutions. On the contrary, it is, by one verse, the liberal legacy of limiting power through the right, on the other hand, of forms of democratic participation conducted on individual issues, defined in pragmatic and non-ideological terms, and often aimed at recalling the elective powers to respect their own commitments and their own constitutional legality. Criticism of politics never becomes an anti-institutional sentiment. In one or the other of these registers you can understand most of the battles that Italian radicals have conducted, under the guidance of Marco Pannella. Not only those for divorce and abortion, during the great civil rights season of the 1970s, for which I believe that Italy should be grateful to this man. The referendum repealing the Fortuna-Baslini law, which had introduced divorce in Italy, was held on 12 and 13 May 1974. It was won by the front of the "No" and, together with the defeat of the Christian Democrat in the successive regional elections, determined a profound change of the political and social scenario in the country. (at 10.55 a.m.) (Horland, Minister for Justice). Law No. 194, on voluntary termination of pregnancy, was passed on 22 May 1978, about three years after the collection of signatures promoted by radicals for the decriminalization of abortion. Italy would not have that law without the radicals, although in 1981 they promoted a new referendum to abolish some parts, in favour of a complete decriminalization. However, Pannella and the radicals have also conducted their action on other lands. I cannot fail to think, in particular, of the campaigns on the issues of justice: against emerging legislation, for the civil liability of judges, against preventive imprisonment, for the abolition of life imprisonment, for the rights of prisoners and for amnesty. It is difficult to deny that Marco Pannella's commitment has contributed to raising the attention and sensitivity of the country on all these issues, even when the most debated could have been the position held on each of them. Similarly, it is difficult to deny that in many other cases his intuitions have anticipated an evolution of politics and society. I would like to give two examples. The first concerns the environmental issue. It is already in the motions and interventions of the 1977 Radical Congress that a clear ecological line is formulated, against environmental pollution, food sophistication, soil consumption, for the promotion of laws in defence of nature and health. The same symbol of the "Sole che ride" used by the Greens was given to them by Italian radicals. Today there is a much more widespread environmental sensitivity, both among political parties and in society, but there is no doubt that the environment and its protection have ceased to be considered a luxury and have become a fundamental parameter in legislative production, also thanks to the radical drive. The other example I want to make is the transnational projection of the Radical Party and European federalism. I couldn't count the times I heard from Marco Pannella mention Ernesto Rossi, Altiero Spinelli or the Ventotene Manifesto. I would not like to be mistaken, but I believe that Marco Pannella spent more years in the Strasbourg Parliament than in the Italian Parliament, in the period from 1979 to 2009, when the United States of Europe was for him a dream constantly evoked and never achieved. I would like to mention in particular a very significant moment: the establishment, in 1981, on the initiative of Altiero Spinelli, of a Commission for Institutional Affairs, in the European Parliament, responsible for drawing up amendments to the existing Treaties, with a view to promoting the complete political integration of the European Community. Vice-President of that Commission elects the radical leader. In that case too, I think it can be said that Pannella was ahead of schedule, and perhaps even little understood: the Single European Act, which was adopted in December 1985, in Luxembourg, did not redesign the Union according to the direction of Parliament in Strasbourg, but merely achieved the internal market by 31 December 1992. The political issues remained so elusive and the Union still pays the price. I realize that in these words I am perhaps hiding the irruent, histrionic, sometimes irritating traits of a bulky personality and, in many ways, out of the ordinary. In paying homage to his intuitions and battles, I am perhaps leaving in shadow a political style that certainly represented a truly unique exception in the Italian and, I would say, European panorama. I do not want to do Marco Pannella and the radicals the wrong to present them in clothes that were not and that could not be theirs. Therefore, I do not want to forget the fasts of hunger and thirst, acts of civil disobedience, provocations such as to present itself gagged on TV, in protest against the management of information by the public service, or the return of money from public funding to the parties, with the stamp stamped on the banknotes. This House, also the parliamentary institutions of the Republic and of the European Community, have been repeatedly challenged - I say this with the utmost respect and consideration, but also with sincerity - by the scandal that Pannella and the radicals have been able to embody: I am thinking of the obstructive battles, but also of the controversial candidatures, promoted by the radicals. But there is also an obligation to remember that the non-violent method of radicals and Marco Pannella has given Italy pages that remain indelible in the history of this country. He gave the civil conscience of Italy the case of Enzo Tortora. Enzo Tortora was arrested for drug trafficking and a camorristic association at four o'clock in the morning of June 17, 1983, along with hundreds of other people, on the basis of statements of repentants that later were completely false and unfounded. Pannella immediately married the cause, and put it before the European Parliament with a huge noise of public opinion: a public opinion, then as it is now, often pushed to condemn before even considering and understanding. After his conviction at first instance, more than two years after his arrest, Tortora was elected president of the Radical Party, well before he was finally exonerated from all charges. It has to be said: Pannella had seen right. And the radicals led a referendum on the civil liability of the magistrates, whose long wave has come to this Parliament, with the new discipline adopted on this subject last year. I recalled this at the outset of my speech and I would like to reiterate it: on the issues of justice, rights, guarantees, the fundamental features of a liberal legal civilization, the radical culture and Marco Pannella have offered and continue to make an indispensable contribution. The contribution has continued beyond national borders, with the battle for the establishment of the International Criminal Court in The Hague, and the campaign against the death penalty in the world. Important pieces not only of sensitivity, but also of the supranational legal order are therefore linked to the political commitment of Pannella and the transnational Radical Party founded by him. The fronts that Pannella has opened are many. They cannot all stand in a speech; it is truly admirable how they have all been in one life. The campaign against hunger in the world, the campaign for the legalization of light drugs, the campaign for conscientious objection, the latest battles on the themes of artificial fertilization and euthanasia: I merely call them in such a rough way to invite you to consider how they are all issues on which society can only continue to question. Dear President, dear Senators, on 16 July 1974 - we are in the aftermath of the referendum on divorce - the first page of the "Corriere della Sera" hosts a disruptive article signed by Pier Paolo Pasolini, with the title: We open a debate on the Pannella case. Pannella was leading a very long fast of hunger during those weeks, for, among other things, access to RAI television programs. And Pasolini was targeting both the clericalism of the Christian Democracy of Fanfani and the political realism of the Communist Party, deaf to the demands of the radical leader. And to each other he opposed Pannella's whiteness. In meeting Pannella last time, at Easter this year, I can say that I continue not to share the particular harshness of Pasolini's words, but, perhaps, to better understand what he meant by talking about the candor of Marco. I think I saw that candor. And even if opening a debate on Pannella was uncomfortable then how uncomfortable it is today, I think it is the best way to remember a man to whom we owe so much anger but also much gratitude. And I think it is right, just now that we salute him, to try to open this debate. I hope, then, that these words will serve not to close a chapter in the history of Italy, but to carry out a new chapter. Finally, I hope that with this same spirit of openness to the new, of curiosity for the times to come, of willingness to confront even hard but always loyal opinions, of which the parliamentary institutions live, it is possible to face the passages both political and institutional that still await the country. [[Live, prolonged applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u42	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2232, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Grassi and others; Argentine and others; Miotto and others; Vargiu and others; Binetti and others; Rondini and others, and 292.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that we are about to vote on is finally filling, I would say, a guilty legal vacuum in Italian legislation. In fact, there was a lack of specific and appropriate passage, both in content and in the procedures left almost entirely to the work of local authorities and of the many volunteers who work silently and with tenacity in the third sector. For this reason and for the spirit behind it, I am particularly happy and proud to be able to speak in this House today. This law passed to parliamentary and journalistic chronicles as a provision on "after us," will in fact be important and fundamental for our country. There are many reasons, as you know, ladies and gentlemen. Talking about "after us" means talking about civilization and dignity. Civilization of a modern country and dignity and autonomy of families and people who are not self-sufficient with serious different skills. Many of us often find it difficult to understand the real drama of those who are in the situations that the text wants to protect, but it can no longer be the cause of delays and other dramas. For this reason, the effort and commitment as men of the institutions must be even greater, because politics must be attentive to those who have less means and possibilities than others. Otherwise it cannot be defined as political. But let's come to the law. It is a project that, as you know, wants to provide care to disabled people in serious conditions that do not have family support. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will then have to identify criteria for regulating access to benefits. The legislator identifies local authorities, especially municipalities, who are responsible for providing assistance. Let us hope that this time they will not leave themselves alone as in the past, when they have had to handle too many emergencies without clear and detailed legislative references. This is an important point that I personally touch on. Before joining Parliament, I was mayor of my city, Corato, in Puglia. The mayors, I will never tire of remembering, are often the first and sometimes the only references of the State to the citizens, those to whom for very delicate issues, such as those of "after us," families address at first batting. Good. Already as mayor, on a report, alas, dramatic and hopeful of a parent, I had to think of an intervention that would give solutions to that and to other families. Thanks to national funding and municipal co-financing, we have succeeded, and I say this with pride, even at a time of cuts and financial constraints, to inaugurate an accommodation facility for disabled people in serious conditions, called just "after us", belonging to the local agency. Those who have had such an experience can understand the commitments and, as I said, the hopes behind these projects. But the end justifies the means and efforts: to ensure adequate assistance to disabled persons without the material and spiritual assistance of their family members. The realization of that structure, several years before the discussion of this measure, today is evidence not only of the sensitivity of that administration, but I would say an example of what must be done from today on, without abandoning to their own families, children, health workers, volunteers and local authorities. I repeat this because, as I said earlier, a principle of civilization, dignity and solidarity is in question. Institutional and human solidarity with those who must continue to be an active part of our communities. And not only that. The legitimate support for parents, to give certainties and serenity, in addition to the principle of good administration and efficient use of public funds, is under discussion - I repeat. It should be said that at present, at territorial level, innovative experiences are being experimented on another phase, called "during us." These are forms of cohabitation or "dwellings of autonomy," also for young people who want and can take paths detached from the family. These projects also require, without any doubt, appropriate forms of financial support. In view of this, it is regrettable to see a painful note in the measure we are debating today. As a Group of Conservatives and Reformists, we fully share the spirit of the text, but let us point out that we need much more resources than the Government's efforts to implement it. We affirm this in the face of the great commitment required of local communities, increasingly deprived of economic means, structures and personnel. In fact, the bill provides for the establishment of a Fund for assistance to persons with different serious skills, without family support, with the following allocations: €90 million for 2016, just €38 million for 2017 and €56 million annually since 2018. These resources must be increased. Another critical aspect that I would like to point out concerns the methodology of intervention, based on partial measures relating only to certain aspects of the problem. This approach risks greatly weakening the role of Regions and Municipalities in the effort to define programming consistent with the needs that the territory manifests. Added to this is the very serious, continuing distinction between health and social interventions. This effectively prevents a proper allocation to local authorities for care and health, which so many associations have been demanding for a long time. Despite these critical aspects, however, I believe that overall this is a good law, able to provide the first, although not exhaustive, answers to the needs of the citizens concerned, directly and not; answers which - I repeat - Parliament can and must continue to give. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u44	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u45	Madam President, despite the protection provided for by Law No 104 of 1992 and Law No 162 of 1998, there was no specific initiative to protect people with serious and therefore not self-sufficient disabilities, after the death of their parents or when they lack family support. We had already tried this in the last parliamentary term, but the examination of the bill was not over. A petition had also been made by Congresswoman Argentin, who had collected nearly 89,000 signatures. At last in this legislature we have managed to unify six different legislative proposals in a single text, which aims to avoid the sanitaryization of the most serious cases, when the relatives who followed them fail, and to allow them to continue living in their homes or in family houses and to achieve the highest possible level of autonomy and full social inclusion. The text approved by the House had important amendments in the Senate, in the committee of merit, which also incorporate many of the comments made in the Health Commission. The beneficiaries' audience has been better identified in persons with serious disabilities, as defined in Article 3 of Law No 104, established in accordance with Article 4 of the same law. Account has been taken of the need to strongly bring out the greater interest of people with serious disabilities. It has been stressed that care measures must be carried out through the progressive taking over of the person concerned already during the lifetime of the parents and above all in compliance with the wishes of persons with serious disabilities, their parents or those who protect their interests. It has been established that in the trust institution act, in the trust trust agreement governing special funds, or in the act of setting up the destination bond, the obligations and reporting arrangements have been indicated to the trustee, the trustee or the manager. The other important amendment introduced was to provide that in the event of the beneficiary's premorience over the entities that have established the trust or concluded the special funds and constituted the destination bond, transfers of goods and real rights to those entities enjoy the same exemptions. Perhaps the law could and could still be improved to arrive at a sure path that leads to a real deinstitutionalization and to the true overcoming of the health care residences (RSA) and of the sanitary residences for disabled people (RSD), increasing the autonomy, independence and the satisfaction of the disabled. Perhaps we could review the issue of trusts, this very controversial novelty, in the knowledge that they are not a solution for everyone, especially at a time of widespread poverty. Perhaps the question of intellectual disability had to be explored, which even in the less serious cases is often associated with other diseases, such as epilepsy and autism, so to foresee in such cases the possibility of taking advantage of treatments similar to those contained in this bill. It is also true, however, that in the country the wait was really long and if it is true (as it is true) that in Italy people suffering from serious disabilities and for this reason not self-sufficient are 2.6 million, the time has expired. We must also make a little serenity absolutely to those family members who live daily the distressing thought of what will happen to their loved ones when they are no longer there, when they no longer have their support. Therefore, I can only express my thanks for the work done in the Senate by the Commission on merit and I believe I can say that an important first step has been taken. It will now be important to continue to pay close attention to the provisions of the bill; I am referring above all to the determination of the essential levels of performance throughout the national territory, to the strengthening of information and advice for access to the integrated network of social services, educational-assistant services and the promotion of sociality and above all to the adoption of interventions to counter the conditions of old and new poverty that, when associated with situations of disability, are unbearable, explosive and have an absolute need of all our attention, of all our commitment. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking with conviction in the current debate on a long-awaited draft law which concerns the future of people suffering from serious disabilities. They are those people who, having one or more disabilities, possibly aggravated even by age, are not able to live an autonomous life, who need permanent assistance and who also have a terribly uncertain future ahead of them. Today these people live, if they are lucky, with a close relative (normally parents) who cares about providing them with such assistance, often in total loneliness. Incidentally, it is a not indifferent number of people, because of the 3.2 million disabled registered in Italy as many as 540,000 are in the category of serious disabled people, that is unable to live a life even partially autonomous. It is certainly not the number that makes it an important issue, because assistance to these people is the measure of the level of civilization of our country. I therefore believe that the adoption of this measure is a duty for all of us. Obviously, as always, more could be done, starting from the times, as Senator Granaiola said before me. We began to talk about this even in the last parliamentary term - and we were certainly already late - and, as the years passed, personal and family dramas were consumed. There are also many economic doubts: in fact, 90 million euros were allocated in 2016, just over 38 million euros for 2017 and 56 million euros from 2018 to support people with serious disabilities. If you take into account what the municipalities are investing in disability aid (about 7 billion) and serious disability aid (1.5 billion), you realize that the intervention provided for in this bill is certainly not decisive. Moreover, the reduction that the Government is progressively making with regard to transfers to local authorities, that is, the municipalities, which means that, on the one hand, resources are being taken away from the municipalities and, on the other, the municipalities will be forced to reduce transfers to the family members of these people and patients with serious disabilities. In the end, we would not want the little that is being given, compared with the enormous expenditure that the municipalities and families face for disabilities, to have a negative balance within themselves. Therefore, I hope it is only the beginning of a revision of the Italian welfare system in which resources are reallocated where they are most needed, especially in support of families. In fact, we have a duty to raise, as far as we can, the burden that is now almost exclusively on them and at the same time we have a civil obligation to try to increase aid at home, the possibility of relying on new technologies, of establishing residences or family houses that allow life in an environment as comfortable as possible and that avoids the institutionalization of serious disabled people when they have to remain alone. It is for this reason that one of the most convincing aspects of the bill is the application of the trust institution also to situations of serious disabilities, in which parents will be able to bind their assets, if any, to a future life plan for the disabled person when they are no longer there. The measure "after us" can represent the beginning of this path and, above all, a new hope for all families who live in the despair and terror of the future for the disability of their loved ones. Personally I have had many patients, even serious, in my work as a doctor. Parents were not concerned about their life or health, but because after them their disabled children would not have had safe care. That is why I shall vote in favour of this measure further and firmly. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u49	Madam President, we are dealing with this issue after a long wait and, indeed, this issue is very important. It is one of those on which Parliament is asked to give a very rapid and concrete response. Madam President, I believe that in these circumstances, as is often the case, there is a risk of mixing things with the philosophy of political correctness: this law or it is approved as is proposed by the text which the Government likes and which the rapporteur has promoted in the Commission or the real risk is that we will be labelled as those who do not have as their interest the solution of the problems of disabled people. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] This is the risk we don't want to take. I say to the representative of the Government that amendments have been proposed, some by the majority and others by the opposition, which aim to be able to interpret in the best possible way the difficulties of families and disabled people. We must never forget that freedom, and above all freedom of choice, of people must not be restricted. Warning: it is not said that disabled people are born. Disabled people can also become. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] This is another concept that needs to be very clear, because all too often disability is considered as a problem that came into the family at its origin. It is not so: you can also remain offended during your own existence, and therefore it is a problem that concerns everyone. As I said before, in the face of a disability, the first issue that is addressed normally, as any good Christian would, is how to give care and assistance. Here I begin to address a topic that should be, at least, parallel to the law on "after us": that of caregivers, that is, those who care for a disability, rather than a disease or a difficulty lived in the family. A subject which concerns another law, and not this measure, but which we have already called for several times in the Conference of the Leaders, and we will do so with great determination, because after this measure we move quickly to respond to this other requirement. Madam President, we do not want the adoption of this measure to turn into yet another tweet by which the resolution of the problem of families and the disabled is spent. The solution, in fact, can be given starting from keeping disabled people in the family, giving the possibility to remain in the loving arms of family care to those who have a situation of difficulty and are living it. There are no flawless situations. In these hours, in these days, we are seeing the gruesome scenes that come from Nuoro, with these elderly people who, hospitalized in nursing homes or nursing homes, are mistreated by those who should take care of them. This does not mean that all old people's homes or nursing homes should be closed in the morning; that would not be a solution. We must be very strict with those who behave in this way, and the Minister of Justice, who was present in this House just now, should deal with these cases very carefully. This, in fact, is not only a violation of the law but also means violating people in their dignity, which is unforgivable and on which there can only be a strong reaction on the part of civil society. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] Attention, because building systems that do not have guarantees or restrict freedom scares me. There are new cases included in this legislation, such as the solution of trusts. What will happen after the life of parents or those who are close to the disabled person is to end? Who's gonna take care of the disabled? One solution is that of the trusts which, however, does not leave entirely without doubts, especially as regards the possibility that this instrument may be available to all those who have the discomfort to face. Madam President, the cost of a trust, based on studies and analyses, is likely to limit access to this instrument to perhaps 5% of the disabled population. It is an instrument which belongs to non-Italian legislation, but essentially Anglo-Saxon legislation, and which must not be spent as the total solution to all problems. For costs and difficulties, in fact, it risks being accessible only to a narrow population. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] In recent days a conference has been held in Florence during which some of these issues have been addressed. There was a Member of Parliament, Mr Gelli, who was asked how the matter is to be resolved. I quote your answer: The trust is not the only means to implement the law. Moreover, they claim that those who could not adhere to this formula can always refer to other funds made available by the State for the maintenance of these people with serious disabilities. The journalist later noted that this is the only possibility included in the measure, since other formulas are not foreseen. This, therefore, means indicating as a solution to all problems something that is already known from the outset to be limited to a small part of the population of disabled people. If we talk about the other additional resources - God's goodness - on the occasion of every financial manoeuvre we witness the decrease of the resources made available for serious disabilities, with shields and the assumption of public positions that then, punctually, force the Government to return to its steps. This means that today we risk facing this issue superficially, giving the outside world a certainty of solving problems that is far from being real. I do not intend to go any further, Madam President, but as of now it is my difficulty to tackle this measure with serenity, because too much emphasis has been placed on the real resolution of the problems behind them, which need funding. Just this morning I signed an amendment by Senator Bignami, which proposes to expand the audience of those who can access the 8 per thousand proceeds. It is a small and simple regulatory change, with invariance of revenue and costs. The measure therefore has nothing to do with the state budget, being linked to the choice of the individual. True signals can also be given on these sides. In fact, when the trust does not work, what are the resources available? The ones from the city? No, these resources don't exist. The real risk then truly becomes the institutionalization of the disabled bearer, as the family is unable to provide. The real risk is that there will be a departure from the family environment because the family will not be able to cope (as stated in Article 4). This doesn't have to happen. Worried if the measure under consideration was to restrict the freedom of persons. The disabled (or those who protect him) must have the opportunity to make a choice, otherwise - I repeat - it is sold as a solution to a problem what, in reality, can be translated as a limitation to the freedom of people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u50	We welcome and greet the boys of the Council of Girls and Boys of the Institute including Via Casalotti n. 259 of Rome. Welcome to the Senate, where you can learn how a collegiate body works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u51	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u52	Madam President, let us pay particular attention to this measure. I can only agree with what my previous colleagues have said, both those who have emphasized the importance of the measure, and those who, with great transparency, loyalty and concreteness (I am thinking of Senator Candiani's last speech), have also highlighted the critical points. Because we must not hide that we can do more, because it is obvious and obvious that families who face conditions of serious disability of their children or family members (but also in cases of serious disability that occurs not from birth, but in the course of life) are abandoned. We know perfectly well that families are isolated. The reduction of the resources allocated by the State to the municipalities poses ever greater difficulties. It is obvious that a fund of EUR 90 million cannot solve the problem and the way in which it is highlighted is in this direction: I am referring to openness to private financing, the possibility of taking out insurance policies that can be deducted and the creation of trusts. I would also like to stress in this provision how particular attention has been paid to the essential levels of performance. This is because we have been waiting for him for a long time for everything concerning the human being, the citizen, in Italy, but since time is wasted and no destination is reached, the insertion of a formal commitment by the Ministry of Labour and the MEF to adopt within six months these LEPs at least as regards those affected by serious disabilities seems to me a particularly important fact. I would like to stress, at the end of my speech, that the issue of serious disability affects only a small part of a problem that concerns families and those who, for example, suffer from minor disability or mental retardation. In these cases we talk about pathologies, such as epilepsy or autism, which obviously involve the same problems. That is why, with the agenda that we are going to examine, possibly to discuss and approve, the 1.00, we are addressing this issue and we are asking, for the reasons I have set out, for an extension of what is foreseen in this bill for serious disabilities to those who are mild and those who suffer from pathologies related to mental retardation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u53	Madam President, first of all I welcome the work that the rapporteur has done and I would like to thank her precisely in this House for this work which was certainly not easy, very delicate and very conflicting, and which, however, meant that this measure, which was born in the House with great difficulty trying to unify the proposals of so many Members, could eventually be improved by this House in the direction that many of us wanted and to which it had not previously been possible to go. I would therefore like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur and the Commission responsible for the work they have done, partly because many of the comments we had made as a health committee have been taken into account. However, if anyone asks me if I am satisfied with this bill concerning serious disabilities, I should frankly say that I have so much bitterness left in my heart. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] I say this not because it is not important for this measure to come to definitive approval and then quickly try to implement it effectively; on the contrary, I believe that this is fundamental. However, we must be very frank that, given the advanced level of reflection on the modalities, policies, strategies that can be implemented at the territorial level, in a nation, for people with serious disabilities, perhaps many of us hoped to be able to do something more advanced. It was not possible; we are aware of the great difficulties of various types (cultural, political, technical, economic) that there are, and however, since the laws then walk with the legs of the people who implement them, I would like to report two or three points to the Government. I therefore turn to the Government, but also to the competent Commission, and especially to us senators, drawing attention to some things that could be done to ensure that what is too embryonic in this measure already exists - and has been strengthened, fortunately, by the interventions that have been made in the Commission work - is emphasized at the time when it will be implemented, without risking instead that a part which is not so clearly advanced in relation to the needs of the people is privileged. In the text it is written that everything must be done in the prime interest of disability. I remember here an international slogan, "Nothing about Us without Us." [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Candiani.]] Perhaps we should have been clearer in pointing out that all proposals must see the participation of the disabled and the family. It does not say that it should not be done; the important thing is that those who implement this law give effect to that simple sentence that, fortunately, has been inserted, that must be the primary interest of the disabled person to guide the interventions. That is enough, and we hope that it will be enough for the Ministry before, the regions after, and the bodies that will give life to the projects to take account of it. The second aspect that I want to clarify is the following: in all international studies Italy is indicated as the country that, in Europe, especially in social welfare policies, makes too many money payments and offers few services. With this draft law we try to balance out at least a little, because for the first year 90 million euros are allocated for the provision of services, but we still put many for the monetary disbursements, that is for the tax breaks. I would also like to thank you for considering our request to ensure that, if monetary payments, i.e. tax concessions, are excessive - as many of us believe - what will be saved can be paid back into the Service Fund. What people with serious disabilities require is in fact to help them to have services adapted to their needs, even before monetary disbursements. Finally, I would like to highlight a subject which is also included in the draft law, but not sufficiently stressed in the economy of words. As has already been said, the problem is not even going to use these resources to predict the institutionalisation of people. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Candiani.]] This cannot be done, especially when we talk about "after us." We know how many times it is possible, first, to keep people with disabilities in the family, with so much sacrifice for family members: to foresee resources to bring them to institutions is not at all conceivable. So I hope that those aspects, which are already in the draft law before us and which should be highlighted when it is implemented, will be monitored by the Government and the Regions and I hope that Parliament will also evaluate how this legislation will be implemented. I am referring to the activity, which is so often called for, of the ex post evaluation of public policies that have been adopted. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u54	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u55	Madam President, before I begin my speech, I would like to wish the previous senator a birthday: I cannot help but do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u56	Congratulations also from the Presidency to Senator Dirindin.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u57	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Moreover, I also thank Senator Dirindin for the critical issues she highlighted, because I feel like I am reading a different text than I heard yesterday. One of the many strange news that is not given any weight, much less meaning, is the following: in November 2015, in the morning, a tragedy occurred in the Municipality of Suzzara, in the province of Mantua. Luigi Santachiara, 88 years old, took his life hanging himself on the balcony of his home. In the house was found the lifeless body of his son, Paolo Santachiara, 51 years old, disabled from birth and forced into a wheelchair: he died in his own bed, after his father took away his breathing apparatus and put a tape on his mouth and nose. The father wrote in a note, left to his family: "Excuse me for the crazy gesture." Excuse me for the crazy gesture... Someone makes it and someone doesn't make it: there are no "the best" and there are no "the worst," but everyone needs help. So great is the weight of a severely disabled child, that in order to withstand it you must enjoy excellent health, above all mental, good economic resources, if possible a lot of faith, a good dose of hope and so much, so much strength. Above all, strength and strength "over everything." The strength to resist despair, which insinuates itself in the most unthinkable ways: its favorite moment is the night, because you do not know if you will wake up. While the vast majority of parents think about the problems of the next day, about the love of life, about the last holiday, about the phone and about a bunch of daily "vaccades," some people are attacked by a hammering obsession: after me, "after us" parents, what will become of him, what will become of her or, even, what will become of them? In fact, I remember someone living with more disabled people. Disabled parents see the passing of the years as the distressing departure from the goal, or rather, the approach to ever greater problems, not to the solution of them, as happens to the other parents. Every evening, they turn off the light, climb a day from the tremendous countdown, wondering: and then, what will become of him? He who needs a thousand personalized measures to work, to have a minimum of balance, without getting lost and even without dying. Who will really be able to stay close to him with the methods and techniques he has acquired, but above all with the boundless love of a father and a mother? No one can say now why these fathers of the family have come to do massacres with an extreme gesture. Only in their intimate rest the secret despairs and answers that have pushed them to there; and here the mantra always returns, always the terrible and unacceptable phrase that I often hear and that becomes a daily prayer: "Lord, let him live only a minute less than mine, a second, a day." He, a parent of serious disabled, does not go on vacation, does not go to the restaurant, does not go with friends and friends, except when a true social and organizational miracle happens, perhaps thanks to some charity or to the sacrifice of others. Everything is forbidden. He, the flesh of his flesh, is always there; he awaits you, even if he does not speak and even if he does not tell you. How many silent sacrifices, every normality for him is a luxury, a real exception. How many deprivations, how many sacrifices made by these heroines; heroines, yes, because women are the ones who sacrifice themselves most of the time, although I must admit that I personally know men, also real heroes. This world of innocent under house arrest: these are the parents. They're innocent under house arrest. This silent world of women who now give me a voice and who will scream pity at you. Have mercy and give dignity to their children with a just law. Have mercy and give the rights to their children with a just law. Have mercy and give their children a future with a just law. Have mercy and give due to their children with a just law. Don't grant, don't give, because there is nothing to grant, there is nothing to give. It is only necessary to recognize, recognize their rights, those of being human creatures, daughters of a lesser God. Today they are only our children, but here Senator Candiani has already mentioned, tomorrow they could also be yours unfortunately. I don't wish you that, but I'd like you to think about this. You could even be yourself, because disabled people certainly are born, but very often disabled people become: just a stroke, a cardiac arrest, a tablet in a discotheque, a car accident, a sporting nonsense, an assault suffered, a devious and aggressive disease. Make a law that does not satisfy your assumptions, your prejudice and your mere passing punishment. Listen to our needs. Make a law that solves our problems, not that you ease your consciences. Make a law that solves problems. The trust, for example, is no one's priority. None of these parents. The trust already exists. The trust for those who own money is already a possibility and can do so even today, does not need this legume. Think not about the financial solution, but about the disabled adult. He is the particular son, the eternal child who needs everything, even at 30, even at 40 and even at 60. Even at 70 years of age; not at 65 or 66 years of age. Someone needs to be taken, someone raised, someone cared for, someone simply helped, but all the different perfidities of the handicap, especially the psychic one, are united by a single, granitic certainty: he cannot be alone. That's what you mean by serious. It is useless that we are correcting the gravely disabled or seriously disabled. We need to distinguish mental disabilities from physicists. He can't be alone. That's who's the real bad guy. These parents must be protected and reassured by a law that gives them certainty. A law that comforts him. This is the only task of this law: to make us grow old and to die in peace, serenely, without anguish. This is a new right that I invent today: let us die in peace; since they have completed all this hard life, at least give them the right to die in peace. Then when the misfortunes happen, when then someone does not make it, who observes from the outside judges; could only he commit suicide? He could have asked for help. Before you judge, at least try to think. It will be like being electrocuted by a revelation. A revelation would say the movements of all kinds, unworthy of a civilized country. This good Italy, this Italy known for its welcome, this Italy so human and sensitive, this Italy has an unforgivable prerogative: it leaves the parents of the disabled alone. This Italy, which has squandered entire public heritage in the dirtiest and most unethical way with corruption, evasion, the mafia, leaves the disabled and their parents alone because they are silent. Do you want examples? Why are these parents not granted early retirement? We gave it to millions of Italians with baby pensions that we all have on the grumpone today, to thousands of politicians and bankrupts with treatments and good shameful exits, and we have them all on the grumpone today. These parents have a life expectancy of 17 years less. I don't say it; a Nobel Prize winner says it. Not just any blogger that's actually clicking. With a life expectancy of 17 years less you are not granted an early retirement. What is this if not a customary job? Why isn't all this work recognized to these parents at the contributory, insurance and health level? Silent work, invisible work, massacre, usurping. The caregivers in Italy are not yet recognized, while they are in all of Europe. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] What are these parents afraid of? What do they really fear? On February 19, 2016, the Vercelli State Police arrested 18 people for ill-treatment of disabled people in the afternoon; on February 8, 2016, Grottaferrata: slaps, beatings, blows with the broom stick, food made ingest by force, humiliations of all kinds, but also screams, insults and threats shouted at the full face of disabled people. These are just a few of the many cases. This is news; they are not dreams, they are not fears. That's a chronicle. Since birth, in schools, where if you meet a helpless teacher you can do nothing and hope for their safety. Article 12 of Law No 104 of 1992 speaks of the right to education and education; Article 13 of the right to school integration; Article 17 of the right to vocational training; Article 18 of the right to sport integration. However, someone forgets to go on a trip. When they are 18, they are prevented from going to school. You don't know that, I'll tell you. At 18, they send them home, no matter whether they got a diploma or not. Our children cannot finish school; even if they are in fourth grade, they are left at home. Only then a low 1 percent, 0.98 percent, of gyms is accessible to disabled people. 0.98 percent of gyms and, in fact, we have the right to sport, as I said before. During the adult phase of disability, the parents who care are left completely alone and we do not talk about the most complete taboo, their sexuality. In this church, oh, sorry, in this state, it's a taboo. They too have a right to sexuality. Outside there is the lovegiver, here if it is not a bunga bunga or a bongo bingo, it cannot be mentioned. In these families when it is very good (because the legacy is rich) the shelter is in some structure more or less trusted and well done, when it goes wrong, is the lager. What about the differences between regions? You know that, after high school, they go to an SFA, these centers where they spend the afternoon. And the SFAs go from being free in some regions to costing 2,000 or 3,000 euros per month in others; in the middle regions you pay in half, that is half the parent pays it and half the municipality pays it. And all these differences where do we put them? What else do you need to understand that these people need a state? A state that hasn't been there yet. Every subject that is a problem for the community should actually be a resource. Yes, it seems incredible, but it should be a resource; first of all a resource of love and charity, of social spirit and of sharing values, non-commercial and non-commercial values. I know things that work, but they are few. They are small realities that give hope and that are not realities on the agenda. We're gonna have to make some progress. There is a mentality to be changed, a right to be recognized, the right to exist, to access, to perceive life itself, to self-determine; the right to choose, to realize, even in the immobility of oneself or of one's own children. Sorry for the crazy gesture, he wrote that father. But can a madman recognize and apologize for his madness? No, my dears, he was not a fool, he was a man who had consumed his hope, the hope that the son could have the due, the least dignifiedly due. That's what our "after us" is. Yet our Constitution, under the funny siege of Renzi, is clear and clear. Article 30: In cases of parental incapacity, the law ensures that their duties are fulfilled. Are we talking about age? No, it's about a social state, it's about a parent state and it's about taking care of its children. Then let us stop filling our mouths with the word "homeland" when we continue to forget, if not to violate, our Constitution, never applied in many and poorly applied in others of its universally acceptable principles. And I don't want to go on with the next two articles, but I can't forget Article 32: The Republic protects health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, and guarantees free care to the most deprived. Here is the arrangement that leads to "after us," that is what this law should apply, if we really want to call ourselves a social state. These are our fears. What are your proposals? Madam President, how many more minutes do I have? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You still have four minutes. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Thank you. Excuse me. Text of bill no. 2232, "after us." For many of you it is only three words, I know that for many of you it is only three words, three words that together mean nothing. Many people ask me: what is "after us"? The bill No. 2232 is developed in nine articles. To whom is it addressed? I will not talk about what she says, because the rapporteur has already thought about it and all my colleagues have also thought about it in their speeches. The problem is not what this text says; the problem is what it does not say. Purpose: The bill is aimed at the severely disabled who no longer have parents or the strength of their support. However, from estimates made in the technical report, it is thought that this law is addressed to 100,000-150,000 people. In paragraph 1 only some of the articles of the UN Convention are highlighted. Why isn't it mentioned in its entirety? Why just a few articles? Then we quote it all, so it is incorporated globally; this applies both to the Convention and to all the other texts that are mentioned. Paragraph 2 refers to the disabled, but not to all, only to the serious ones, whose disability is not determined by natural ageing. What does that mean? When making sets, you usually have to give appropriate definitions. The Constitution requires us to remove the barriers, not to put them. What are we gonna do here? We put a barrier between the disabled, saying that some help them and others do not. Old age is 65 years old, but I wonder what happens next. In fact, in the bill, it is not written if a sixty-year-old in cohousing who turns 66 ends up in the retirement home, even if maybe the house is hers and has invested part of her money. This isn't written. Why is this difference made at 65 years old? In paragraph 3 of Article 1, after talking about rights, the first thing that the text has pressure to predict is the trust, that is, money and investment, but this issue will then be discussed in the examination of the amendments. This is already an alarm point. As far as financing is concerned, there are EUR 90 million in the first year and EUR 38 million in the second year. Everyone wonders why this change is decreasing and not growing. It's simple, because the difference was taken away for deductions. So we're actually helping who made the investments, but who makes the investments, who makes the trust? Who can, but as Senator Candiani said before, there are very few people who can. So we're scaling this fund that's made available for those who have money to invest with. I have no comment on that. According to a CENSIS report, there are more than 4 million people with disabilities (this has been said and I leave it), but I would like to say that 68.2% of the contributions received by disabled people come from relatives. So this state does not contribute half of all that is given to people with disabilities today. The microphone's blinking, so I'll move on to the end of my speech. So we start with a long showcase of rights, but then we beg trusts and insurance contracts that only bring tax reductions to those who already have a good economic position. Too bad that those who carry out these extreme gestures, those who hope in the State, do not own the house, have no other income, and ask nothing more than to be supported in the long existential work that he carried out. We do not pass this bill as a revolutionary: everything already existed. Everything is done at Renzi, with barrels and shows, but I wonder if it was not better to make a contribution of 100 million euros to the Fund for non-self-sufficiency and to hold a small meeting with the representatives of the Regions in the State-Regions Conference reminding them that the UN Convention was signed in 2008 and inviting them to implement it. I shall end by appealing to all of you who are disabled at the moment; that is, you are disabled in understanding the gravity of this act, empty of content, all full of delegations and inaccuracies. I hope that together we can change it in this House, because disability is a matter of perception: if you can do one thing, it is fine if it is necessary for someone; now the parents ask you to do something right and to be necessary: solve these problems. At this point I would like to end with a sentence by Marco Pannella that I liked (I had heard it but I didn't remember it anymore), that is that the right to life is the life of the right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u58	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, which was adopted at first reading by the House on 4 February and then by 11th February, was approved by the House. The Senate Commission, in its contact person on 17 May, has provisions on assistance to persons with serious disabilities without family support or who may in the future be deprived of such support. The measure is part of the issues relating, on the one hand, to the determination of the essential levels of benefit (LEP) concerning civil and social rights which must be guaranteed throughout the national territory, which fall within the exclusive competence of the State, and, on the other hand, to the subject of social policies of regional competence. The aim, in a nutshell, is to provide assistance to people with serious disabilities without adequate family support, through the principle of better collaboration between the State and the Regions. It is important to remember here the European Disability Strategy 2010-2020: a renewed commitment to a barrier-free Europe whose main aim is to enable people with disabilities to exercise all their rights and to benefit from full and inclusive participation in European society and economy. The strategy, which is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and complements Europe 2020 and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union of the Lisbon Treaty, clarifies the areas for joint actions between the Union and the Member States. Accessibility, participation, equality, employment, education and training but, above all, health and social protection. These are the key points identified at European level as a priority for those 80 million people within the Union who have a light to severe disability. It should be recalled that social protection addresses widespread social issues faced by people with disabilities such as income inequality, the risk of poverty and social exclusion, and how health ensures that people with disabilities have a fair and sustainable access to health services and their structures. For this reason, Article 1 of the draft law, inserting itself within this broader general context of development at European level, regulates measures of assistance, care and protection based on respect for the higher interest of persons with serious disabilities without family support because they are missing both parents or because they are not able to provide adequate parental support through the progressive taking over of the person concerned already during the lifetime of the parents. That "during" expresses a fundamental concept, as it integrates the idea of "after us" enriching it with content and meanings. Fundamental, then, where possible, is the respect of the will of the person, as recalled in the same article 1, reaffirming a principle that the law places at the center of its structure, that is, the respect of the will of persons with disabilities or their representatives, so that the relative decisions are taken for their good and with their support. Article 2, which is still based on cooperation and cooperation between regions and local authorities in the field of health care and health care, aims to ensure a comprehensive service that is uniform and equal throughout the national territory, so as to avoid excessive disproportionate or excessive differences in different parts of the national territory. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I also find the aims of the fund set up under Article 3 of the law appropriate, on which I would like to focus our attention, aimed at strengthening programs of intervention to promote deinstitutionalization and support to home care, in compliance with the conditions, even psychological of people with severe disabilities. I would like to point out that this measure has been awaited for a long time and for many families. I too am a doctor and I gather the pain of so many parents of disabled children who become disabled adults and the pain of these parents who become elderly parents of disabled men and women. Finally, this bill has arrived. It will be incomplete and to be improved, but we have it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is a fundamental regulation that must give us hope because it is not an bestowal, but a due response of a civil community and solidarity as our country has always been. There has been attention in this Parliament and in this Government. Let us think only of the stability law that has allocated EUR 2 million to the special Olympics Italy for sport to become an element of inclusion. We can still mention the law on autism, the reform of the third sector, measures to combat poverty, good school, with all the attention given to supporting figures. Not only support teachers, but it is the world of school that must be welcoming. I understand that it is always too little, for everything that is needed and for a world that demands and needs so much attention. But this we have begun to do, and we can say with joy that this Parliament, the Democratic Party in particular and the Government are carrying out this battle to try to grow in our country inclusiveness, mutual assistance, assistance and social protection. Madam President, I would ask you to attach the text of the speech so that it remains in the documents. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u60	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u61	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u62	Madam President, this draft law is born with a name: "After us," almost poetic. It seems, for a moment, that one really wants to be interested in the problems of the citizens, but it is only a title, and as such it remains, because the heart of the problem is to be solved by widening the scissors between the State and the private, between those who can be cared for and those who do not. We are aware that this bill, yet again in this legislature, has the unpleasant greed of an act chosen to feed clientelism and private interests. It should be noted that the text lacks the basic concepts of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, although it has been timidly mentioned in Article 1. The main demands, reiterated also in an exhausting way during the hearings and that we propose, are: the possibility for people with disabilities to choose, on the basis of equality with others, their place of residence, and how, where and with whom to live; transition paths towards a real deinstitutionalization, with design actions directed to the person, aimed at adult life, participation, social inclusion; measures of contrast and prevention of segregation and isolation; measures and adoptions for increasing awareness; but all these references to the UN Convention in this bill are missing. We would have liked the bill to be fully consistent with the provisions of the UN Convention, but so much so! An example: Article 12 of the UN Convention states: "Equal recognition in the face of law" In particular, paragraph 5 reads: "The States Parties shall take all appropriate and effective measures to ensure the equal right of persons with disabilities to their own or inherited property, to control their financial affairs." While this provision gives families a single opportunity to assist their children when they are lacking, that is to say to be forced to leave their inheritance to their children, but not to manage it as they want, but to give it to intermediaries who will use it to create homes-family or even transform the heritage and houses inherited into homes-families. This bill proposes a single direction for all those people who today live with their families: living in structures managed by third parties! As often happens, you "promote" the rights and integration of people with disabilities who then punctually deny by adopting legislative measures that move in the opposite direction. It was clear that during the hearings, both in the Chamber and here in the Senate, various associations were auditioned which raised considerable doubts about the danger of the trust, included in articles 5 and 6 of the measure, with clear reasons for merit: first of all the absence of specific legislation; but everything remained unheard and in the text we find the trust, which the rapporteur presented and corrected with three sub-amendments. The rapporteur's amendment was written precisely to give legitimacy to the possible introduction into our system of this institution, but without asking the Committees on Finance and Constitutional Affairs for an opinion on the matter, as well as the Commission on Justice. It is therefore a legal vacuum that is not insignificant. This - in our opinion - is extremely serious; we want to force the trust, giving substance to it through an amendment that introduces the institute, because precisely, it is not present in the Italian legislation. The rapporteur's amendment, in addition to providing the figure of the trust as a legal instrument to be used in favour of people with disabilities, introduces the figure of the "self-declared" trust, i.e. the case where trust and trust coincide. In this case there would be no transfer of goods and there would only be a destination obligation for them. In other words, the owner of one or more assets separates them from the rest of his assets and assigns them for certain purposes. The Cassation has strongly criticized this particular figure of self-declared trust, which absolutely cannot qualify as such legally. In practice we are definitely choosing to direct the resources for the protection and management of the life of people with disabilities towards the private initiative almost as if the State had to inexorably withdraw, abandoning its primary role, regarding the protection of the inviolable rights of the weakest, letting the resolution of the problems of these people be the prerogative of private initiatives, pursuing the interests of few and certainly not the social utility! Reading the text of the draft law, it is clear that the management of disabled people's lives will have to remain in the hands of the private sector and the State will only have an appearance role. This is an unacceptable reversal of roles. In these years of economic crisis and continuous and inexorable loss of human values, but above all of culture, we have seen a parable descending on the quality of life in Italy, especially for the weakest people. The scissors between rich and poor have widened considerably and the disproportion that generates this measure, also thanks to the instruments employed like the trust and the contract of trust trust, denotes a short-sighted vision and of absolute social disparity. This policy of transfer of the social-health system from the public to the private was photographed by Censis, who certified that in 2014 there was an increase of one billion in private health spending. In summary, the amendment phase to the Senate was first distinguished by the introduction into the text of the institution of the atypical contractual case of the trust contract, which raised serious doubts about possible uses in this field, since it is a legal institution which, albeit abstractly legitimate, can in practice give rise to opaque and certainly not transparent operations. Although it is permissible in our legal system, in accordance with the provisions of Article 1322 of the Civil Code, in practice this figure has been and is sometimes used as a legal expedient that hides sometimes simulated contractual transactions with which to give rise to fictitious or artificial transactions at the limit of legality. Finally, the use of the trust trust contract is envisaged, another institution not coming from positive law, but of doctrinal origin. It is a contract with which the trustee (maybe a foundation) will manage, according to a program, the assets in the interest of the disabled person beneficiary. The problem is not so much this contractual figure, but to understand why the legislator must use these legal instruments, left to free private initiative, uncoded, to regulate a general problem such as the life and future of people with disabilities. It looks like a force, and it is. Moreover, the real benefits for a family resulting from the conclusion of insurance policies, as provided for in Article 5, are not understood because the savings are absolutely small. The benefit of this measure for families is overestimated due to tax deductibility and the benefit it brings is really modest. It would have been more in line with the real needs to adopt a system similar to the tax system for supplementary pension schemes, in order to lay the foundations for giving concrete implementation to the individual life plan in parallel and complementary to the resources made available by the State. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u63	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u64	Madam President, I am pleased to speak briefly on this subject. I am surprised to have heard some statements, because our country is certainly not a taillight on the subject of the integration of the handicap, being, indeed, a beacon for Europe and for the world. At European and global level we are a model country with regard to the integration of the disabled and the answers not only to the disabled, but also to children with special educational needs (BES), learning disorders and socio-cultural hardships. I have to say that we are an example and a model also with regard to the integration between the world of school, health companies and families. Compared to all this, the draft law under consideration represents an additional piece to complement a program that will certainly still have to go ahead and be implemented and improved. Today, in this Assembly, attention has been given that has long deserved another social theme linked to the expectations, concerns and hopes of millions of families in the country. This is a distinctive sign of this legislature, which is known for its civilized capacity. According to data from ISTAT and CENSIS, about 4 million people with disabilities need to be given even more attention. This is a population group to which - it is a categorical imperative - the state must answer absolutely. This draft law, more known as the "after-us" law, contains provisions on assistance for persons with serious disabilities, without family support in implementation of the constitutional principles laid down in Articles 2 and 3 of the basic principles, 30 and 32 governing social ethical relations, 38 governing economic relations; 24 and 26 of the above-mentioned Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and Articles 3 and 19 of the United Nations Convention. The very vision of the "after us" restores security and greater certainty to those extraordinary, yes, those extraordinary parents of the seriously disabled children; to the families who turn their whole life to these children, devoting them maximum care in the search for a future, because they must be able to find all the guarantees for a dignified life when their parents are no longer there. Until today this passage of the witness has seen the families mostly alone. Today the State also wants to be closer to them: a state that has a constitutional duty to carry out parental tasks in cases where parents are unable to do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. PHASE (PD). Recognising with a legislative initiative the centrality of this moment, crucial for the lives of these people, is a fundamental theme, of protecting people with serious disabilities. Madam President, I realize that I cannot complete my speech, so I ask the Presidency to hand over the remainder of the speech so that it remains in the record. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. PHASE (PD). One last thing, though, I mean. I listened with great interest to Senator Bignami's emotion and words. I would really like to give you a sign of optimism: this law will be, indeed it is another significant step towards an adequate and more complete response to this silent world of men and women. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u65	Senator D'Adda is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u66	Madam President, representative of the Government, my dear colleagues, we are faced with a draft law on which I shall address briefly just a few fundamental passages. This is a measure that, as many of us have already said, and not only by the Democratic Party, families have been waiting for a long time. Many families were waiting for him, some of whom may have made desperate gestures, those thousands of families that day after day, with great anguish, but also with great love and strength, support their children when they have a form of disability that is also conceived in the relationship with the surrounding environment. You see, ladies and gentlemen, in the Commission, we have auditioned many representatives of associations and also of ISTAT, and we know that there is not even a precise definition of serious disability, that is, disability linked to aging and pathologies related to senility. This bill for the first time gives first of all a frame and then a series of important contents. They will certainly be perfectable, they will be subject to the scrutiny of a monitoring, but they are certainly a step that we were asked and that we were able to take. I have heard very often mention the word "trust" in the speeches of many of our colleagues who - I must say - in the House, except for the 5 Star Movement, then shared the first formulation of the text. That text then arrived at the Senate and we note the rapporteur, who has spent a great deal (I take the opportunity to thank her), and the Commission work for having played an important role in improving it. They have improved the text above all in two fundamental respects, one of which was required of us precisely by the associations, that is not to limit itself to trust as a legal form, so that parents could feel tranquil when they failed for their children, but also during their lives, when they lacked the strength to support them. Special funds have been added and those funds have been tied by opening up to all those associations that mainly move in the field of volunteering. We have consistently responded to a very precise and very well-defined request. I want to highlight another important fact: we have emphasized something that has not been reported and taken up here, but that I believe is fundamental, namely the individual project. It is important that we define an individual project and therefore, with a trust or with a dedicated fund, we address ourselves to a specific person, with a project in some way calibrated not only on the individual needs of the moment - this is particularly important - but also on the evolution, not only of the disease, but of the life of the subject over the years. This also brings into play Law 328 of 2000 and that interaction, which must exist, and that subsidiarity between local authorities and what the State promotes, in this case, the "during" and the "after us." Senator Bignami, I would say that this bill is made by five words: \ During and after us Â. Therefore, it puts local authorities and the government in a position to have to reconsider a number of parameters in some way. In the bill there are the openness to the associations and not only to the trust, the individual project and also the continuous updating of this project: this is also a very important element. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator D'Adda. D'ADDA (PD). I shall conclude, Madam President, because this text is what the 11th The Commission has managed to bring home, thanks also to the work of the rapporteur. Although a little, we have expanded a fund, which, however, is there today and which can in any case be expanded by third parties, local authorities, private individuals and so on. So, we're starting to start. I shall end by quoting Goethe, who said a very nice sentence: You treat a human being for what he is, and he will remain what he is. Treat a human being for what he can and must be, and he will become what he can and must be. The disability or the functional condition different from what we call "normality" cannot be overcome, but we can guarantee dignity of life to these people and make them part of a community, which can welcome them as an element of value and positivity, and welcoming them, they also welcome their families. Certainly this is a first step and it is certainly perfectible, but this is the first time that this step has been taken and I would like to stress it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u68	Madam President, the draft law on assistance for persons with serious disabilities, without family support, is before the House today. This is a regulatory intervention of extreme social importance, because, through this text, we have the opportunity to affect the lives of a category of citizens, who for a long time need more attention and protection. Ours is not a country where life always smiles, not even for a young and healthy citizen, but it is a country where, often, the weak, disadvantaged, prevented categories are abandoned to themselves, in an almost Darwinian logic of selection of the species: only those who are strong enough and lucky survive. Our country is a country where welfare services are often insufficient, inappropriate, partial, with clinical and social frameworks that often suffer from the tortuous articulations of bureaucratic elephantia, thus becoming apocalyptic scenarios. Yes, we have the apocalypse just a few steps from home, in the neighborhood, on our landing. The mayors, the councilors to the welfare, the social services of the Municipalities (and it speaks to you who for ten years has played the head of the municipal administration of a town of the South, Noci, in the province of Bari) find themselves alone, in the front line and it becomes everything difficult to manage. Let us put ourselves, then, in the shoes of those who cannot count on the blessing of an intact health. In 2015, the average age in Italy decreased considerably. It doesn't grow anymore. An unexpected reversal of trend, a premonitive setback. This is a consequence of the policies of welfare run by the crisis, by government maneuvers of linear and non-quality savings. This is finally the first major disability bill since 2009, when the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was ratified. With this measure, perhaps, we are going in the right direction, perhaps we will be able to introduce a change, a sign and a dream of civilization for thousands of people, men and women. The text transmitted to us by the House was greatly modified and, as was intended, improved. As far as bicameralism is concerned, dual readings today allow a law text to be improved. Tomorrow, with the messy constitutional reform, this will not be allowed. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] Hence, when full responsibilities pervade legislative action, House and Senate aim at quality, pursuing the common good. One of the "warmest" aspects of discipline is the trust and I would like to dwell on this very point, because when we talk about trusts for the "after us" we mean a real program of life. Let us think about the situations of parents who want to ensure that their children, in need of special care, have as much a future as possible like the present; the greater spread of the trust instrument is the legal framework within which parents represent what will have to happen since they are no longer directly responsible. Legitimate ambition, conscious parenthood. The trust is an institution through which a disposing entity transfers ownership of assets to another entity of its trust, i.e. the trustee. The latter will have to administer the goods for the benefit of a beneficiary or to achieve a specific purpose, in accordance with the instructions and programme laid down by the applicant in the founding act. We read in ancient notary papers, which, in the past, this provision was called "benefit" and consisted almost of a legate. For example, but only to get an idea of what I am saying, in the ecclesiastical history of our provincial communities, the benefit consisted in the enjoyment of holy masses of suffrage at the death of the bountiful benefactor. Today the trust is a flexible tool, tailored to the aims and stakeholders involved, and for this reason it is part of the measures to accompany and protect people with disabilities in everyday life. These measures, to which the trust can constitute not only an alternative but a complementary aid, are the prohibition, the inability and the administration of support. We must bear in mind that the trust is an institution of Anglo-Saxon origin, whose legitimacy in our country derives from the ratification of the Hague Convention of 1 July 1985 on the law applicable to trusts and their recognition, which took place by law of 16 October 1989 n. 364, which entered into force on 1 January 1992. With the transposition, Italy undertook to recognize the effects of the trusts that possess the characteristics referred to in Article 2 of the Convention itself, but without having a general internal discipline of the matter. This has led to the development of conflicting orientations in doctrine, especially as regards the application of the internal trust, i.e. the one in which the only element of internationality of the case is represented by the regulatory law. Not even the introduction of Article 2645-b of the Civil Code, which at first was hailed as the "answer" of the Italian order to the trust of Anglo-Saxon origin, filled this gap. So much so that shortly after the entry into force of the norm the jurisprudence was pronounced in the sense that it would not introduce in our legal system a new type of shop of destination, but only a particular type of negotiating effect, that of destination, accessory compared to the other effects of a typical or atypical shop. For these reasons the "after us" from the point of view of the trust is an absolutely innovative measure, since it constitutes in all respects the unprecedented occasion in which a discipline of the trust is introduced in our system, although with welfare purposes and subject to a series of conditions that protect its legitimate application. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Perrone]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u69	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u70	Madam President, we are talking about an important subject and I am sorry to see the House half empty, especially after some speeches by colleagues who have actively followed, who have lived on their shoulders the experience of a family with a disabled child. I also know, and I think I share Mr Bignami's thought, that it may be a disgrace, but it is also an opportunity and an event that can make families grow; in fact, those who have a reality like this, have the opportunity to face a difficult and hard experience, but extremely increasing. It is from these families that we must take an example and inspire even when we are going to take these measures. It's actually a long-awaited law. These are regulatory measures which need to be adopted and which should have been done sooner and perhaps better. There are already initiatives at a territorial level to try to respond to families. There are initiatives that have been left almost alone. In the territory from which I come, Vicenza, in particular from the valley where I live, started with a pilot project to try to create a housing structure, which gives the possibility not only to provide home care, but also a form of hospitality inside. These are structures, foundations, which eventually involve various bodies, people and subjects to try to make possible a project that may seem ambitious and large even from an exquisitely economic point of view, but that becomes absolutely necessary. Of course, in the face of all this expectation we find ourselves a norm that probably cannot give an answer to the anguish of these families, of parents, of those who care a disabled person about what the future will be, that is not only the future of the disease and the outcome, but the future of what can happen after the lack of support for the disabled person. That is the problem; there is a difficulty that is combined with anguish and concern for the future. A difficulty in raising and caring for a child, a family member who is suffering from this disability, while remembering what we said about the great strength, the enormous strength that is given, probably by Heaven, to these families in order to overcome certain situations. We are talking about "after us"; before us there is the family, "after us" there must also be institutions. This is a serious lack and a serious difficulty in our society. In order to give serious support to this rule and to all the forecasts that we want to invent about trusts or donations, what we need to remember is that we need to enhance the family, because it is the latter that needs to be helped. And this must be done with targeted interventions, which unfortunately have failed in recent years, because the policies of the family do not exist, the policies in support of the family lack. We have even come to measures that have called the family itself into question. Do you remember the broad debate we had on the issue of civil unions? Regardless of the opinion on that measure, at least we talked about family for once. In some terms, the living rooms and comparisons have opened, where it has been said what the family is. Then it was limited to that debate. But the family is now left to itself. Also with regard to the famous and so-called Law 104, the important thing is to give an effective concreteness to that norm [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] because if there is no real, even economic, support for these families, you can't support these kind of episodes. We can talk a thousand times about the "after us," we can say a thousand times that there must be structures; but in the end the family is left out. It is obvious what you want to believe and think, but the priority strategy that you should follow is the one that should allow the maintenance of disabled people in the core of the family. The problem is when the family fails. Without wanting to be nostalgic about the lost times, as if they were better, we must observe that today the family is different and is structured almost mononuclearly. Now we are with a family made up of father, mother and children, while once there were different social structures, where the family was enlarged and the son was not only the son of his father and his mother, but had uncles, grandparents, cousins. We also lived in a different living environment, where the districts still existed; in my areas there are many, as in much of Italy. We lived in different social groups, so the son, the child that was born, was almost the child of all; and the old man was the grandfather of all. There was no problem leaving a house alone and undressed, not knowing who could care for the elderly, disabled, sick or the child. There was a structure, there was a real community. Today, however, we find ourselves with extremely lonely families, where in reality perhaps the sense of the family is also lacking, because there is no longer even the time to be together, because now we all work: the father works and the mother works, we work up to advanced age, we continue to work and there is no longer the time to stay at home to care for and to raise children, to follow the elderly and to follow, to care for and cure even the disabled. So in this family system, until we deal with the family problem, it's hard for us to talk about the "after us" problem. The problem of "after us" is complex, but at least one piece is beginning to be put on; however, we must try to tackle it by collecting and sharing the ideas that have been given in this House by many of our colleagues, who have been directly interested in the problem. So we hope and invite the Government and the majority to evaluate, even in the course of the amendment, the proposals that will be presented and illustrated, which certainly could give a better sense and concreteness to a law that - as we have said - has been waiting for a long time, but that we do not want it to be just the usual empty box in a policy made by now only of proclamations and slides. We must give serious regulatory measures, which are not only beauties, but which must be extremely incisive in order to actually give support to our society, to these problems and to these situations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Bignami, De Pin and Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u71	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called 'after-us' law transforms the work of care towards disabled citizens, which today in Italy, as has been mentioned, is provided for 68.2% by parents and, when they are no longer there, by sisters, brothers and other family members. Care is a very dear concept to us, which goes beyond and includes the essential and indispensable one of assistance. The law on "after us" wants to take care of citizens with disabilities, imagining a path that prepares this "after", a series of services that should be progressively integrated in the family context, so as to be able to best deal with the definitive changes that are imposed as one parent or another family member, who up to that time had assured the cure, fail. When we talk about disability, we do not speak of a marginal phenomenon, that is not the case. This measure affects 15% of Italian households. About 3 million citizens and citizens are disabled, about 5 percent of the population, a number that exceeds that of the inhabitants of a city like Rome. We are aware that for those who are disabled, family support has always been the most effective and complete solution to the needs and problems of social integration; however, if more than two thirds of the assistance received by disabled people is provided by relatives more or less close, who dedicate their time, their energy and their resources to the care of the non-self-sufficient group, this is unfortunately also due to the loneliness in the face of the handicap with which too many families still deal. As we have heard from some colleagues (I have also had the opportunity to meet some representatives of these associations), the theme of the loneliness and absence of the State - to which it often binds - hurts, burns, also considering that it is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles to the full realization of all citizens and create the conditions for a right of citizenship for all. The draft law before us is trying to reverse this paradigm, but let me say, Madam President, that it does so with light and shadow. I'd like to start with some positive notes. Its system is positive insofar as it aims to put at the centre the construction of the autonomy of those who are disabled as the first response to the worry of the "after," building a precious alliance between relationship of affections and professional relationship of care. Finally we talk about disability and do so by paying attention to those who care for the disabled: in fact, the family is the real object of the law, or at least it should be. It is also necessary to identify with the frustration of the disabled child who perceives all the weight of the parents concerned about what will happen when they are no longer there. The bill then introduces a structured path that begins in the "during us," but then continues with the necessary graduality aimed at ensuring an adult existence (adultity) of disabled children. The measure, on the one hand, regulates what will happen after the death of the parents, on the other at the same time builds a path of adulthood of disabled children. That is why we also felt it was innovative that the debate took place in the Committee on Employment and Social Security and not in the Health Commission. As the President of the Republic also pointed out in a recent speech, it is not about assistance, but about citizenship, to be built with the collaboration of all. I would now like to turn to the shadows of this draft law because, as other Members have already pointed out, it is more a matter of stressing what is missing rather than what is actually there. Clearly one of the concerns that this text has raised in so many associations of families of disabled people and parents is the absence of the State. Of course, all the talk about the essential levels of performance is fine, because it must be guaranteed to everyone. However, when it comes to the implementation of the bill under discussion, we must not forget that it is already an implementation of Law 328 of 2000. Already at that time, in particular, Article 22 (2) of that law, in the definition of the integrated system of social assistance and services, identified the interventions which constituted the essential levels of social benefits payable in the form of goods and services: I refer, for example, to the establishment of housing communities or to the permanence of persons with disabilities at home or with families, Community structures or family-type reception facilities. Madam President, I wonder and ask my fellow Members whether a review exercise has been carried out in trying to understand what has not worked over the past sixteen years and what are the deep roots of the feelings of isolation that people and families with disabled citizens have perceived and are sensing. We also need to question whether the law actually responds to these needs. The trust is fine to simplify the procedures to those who have the possibility to employ their assets in the path "after us." The reductions in insurance premiums are also good, but let us ask ourselves whether these measures involve all citizens, whether these measures create citizenship. I believe that, from this point of view, the law does not fully achieve their own objectives. We can modify it in the passage to the Senate in some basic lines. It's okay to create the fund with these 90 million, but are we sure that the fund will reach even the most needy people? Why not include among the requirements for access to the ISEE-based gradations fund in order to guarantee that right of citizenship even to those who do not have assets to be used in a trust? Another interesting aspect is to mark your stay at your home, when this is possible. It should also be mentioned among the interventions financed by this fund those aimed at maintaining one's own home or a home that is familiar to the citizen to whom the interventions are dedicated. Madam President, a very interesting point is found in Article 8, where we are discussing the report to the Chambers. It is quite right to report to the Chambers so that Parliament can take action to monitor and suggest corrective action but, as this article says, it seems that the focus is only on the economic aspect. It is said, for example, of a report on the state of implementation of the provisions of this law and on the use of resources referred to in Article 9 (i.e. economic resources). It is also quick to say, again in Article 8, that the report shows the actual development of the lower revenue resulting from the same provisions. Frankly, I find it extremely reductive that the debate on monitoring should take place on lower revenue. That doesn't seem so upbuilding to me. On the other hand, I would like to see this report in the Chambers - in this sense some of my own and other colleagues' amendments - as an opportunity to take stock of what has not been done and not what has been done on the basis of this law - which is also good for me - and if there are still citizens who are excluded from those social paths that the State must put in place in order to guarantee their right to citizenship. I believe that we have the opportunity, during the debate in this House on this measure, to strengthen it, not to deny what is there, which could be good, but to ensure that the path "after us" becomes a path of citizenship guaranteed to all citizens regardless of their initial condition. If we can do this, we will be able to make this provision a really good law. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u73	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u76	RUTA (PD). Madam President, I am speaking very briefly. There is one issue that I raised with a special question to the Presidency of the Council and to the Minister for Economic Development. I am here to ask the answer to that question. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I therefore invite the Undersecretary Pizzetti to take his place in the benches of the Government in order to listen to the solicitation to this question. RUTA (PD). Question 3-02831 concerns the Italian Post Office and I would urge you for a very simple reason. By now it is already in force and is being applied, by Poste italiani, the modalities of notification to alternate days (one day yes and one no) of the mail to some Italian citizens unlike others: I say this because in the marginal areas of the Country is already in operation this mode. The question presented has exactly the objective of knowing whether the universality of the system that Poste italiani must guarantee can know citizens of series A and citizens of series B, and if it is imaginable, given the type of concession that the Italian Post Office has, a diversified treatment depending on where the citizen lives, where he resides: if he lives in a marginal area (i.e. if he is not near a post office), he will receive the mail every other day; if he lives in an urban center, instead, he will receive the mail every day. Since this measure is already in force, the Government is asked to respond to the trade union act that I have presented and to do so immediately, very quickly, because obviously through this act we will have the Government's answer on a question that is not only of principle (it is "also" of principle, because it concerns the equal treatment of all citizens), but it answers the question if the Italian Post dealership can develop a hypothesis in which the treatment is diversified according to the residence of the citizens themselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-633.ana.u77	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.58 p.m.
