ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 119, 1004, 1034, 1931 and 2012, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. I recall that Articles 1 to 4 were approved in the afternoon sitting. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 5, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u5	Mr President, the first of the four amendments to Article 5 that I would like to make is Amendment 5102. For the North League it is not acceptable to identify a territory adjacent to the park area that, despite being outside the perimeter of the park itself, is subject to the governance of the Park Authority. In other words, we do not think it appropriate that the Park Regulation defines the exercise of activities also in the areas adjacent to it and also adjacent to the sites of Community importance (SIC) and the special protection zones that fall also partially in the perimeter of the park, subtracting with this the competences to the Municipality and the Region. I would also like to explain Amendment 5,108, which we are asking to delete the provision for a ban on hunting within protected areas. According to Law No. 394 of 1991, which is currently in force, the park, which has been found to be ecological imbalances, may attempt to recompose them with selective collections and killings, allowing hunting in practice. The amendment explicitly introduces the absolute prohibition of hunting activities in national and regional parks, and it is therefore clear that it is also intended to prohibit a possible derogation by means of the park regulation. On Amendment 5,122 I would particularly like to draw the attention of the rapporteur and the Government to the fact that even the first permanent Commission, with the note of 8 November, in formulating its observations to the draft law, states that in the procedure for approving the park regulation, it is appropriate to forecast that the regions and autonomous provinces concerned, like the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, can also make additions and modifications. The prediction of the mere faculty, moreover - I emphasize - attributed only to the Regions and not to the Autonomous Provinces, to manifest only the dissent is not in fact suitable to ensure the full exercise of the constitutionally recognized prerogatives in this matter to the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. Therefore, we believe that Amendment 5,122 goes in the direction of filling this problem that the same 1st Standing Commission highlighted. Finally, I would like to explain Amendment 5.25, because we do not agree with the provision that, in relation to the adjacent areas, measures for the regulation of the park may be provided for the regulation of hunting, fishing, mining and environmental protection, especially when it comes to the large extent of the national protected territory. This is an imposition of absurd prohibitions that do not fall under the jurisdiction of the Park Authority. At present - I stress - hunting in neighbouring areas is regulated by the regions. It is not okay that the hunting activity now regulates the Park Authority, even with the opinion of ISPRA, opinion that, in the case of regional protected areas, it becomes binding. The paradox - I want to emphasize - is that the Park Authority does not pay for the damage caused by game in the adjacent areas, but only those caused within the parks.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u6	Mr President, I would like to make a number of amendments which are quite important to us and I should like to mention a few in particular. Amendment 5.05 calls for the prohibition of the creation of new airlines for the distribution of high-voltage electricity to be made explicit, including in the requirements of the plan. Amendment 5106 concerns an issue relating to the matter of fauna, and we will then discuss it when we deal with Article 9 on the management of wildlife plans. We are faced with a rather serious issue, a problem certainly not to be underestimated, which concerns a little 'all the national territory and the areas of the parks and the contiguous ones, that is the exponential growth of the population of the wild boars. The adoption of amendment 5106 should be of common sense, as it makes the ban on the breeding of wild boar absolutely explicit. We have already discussed other measures - and in part we have also succeeded in doing so - to make the repopulation bans explicit. The species in question has spread in such a heavy way precisely because, not being an autochthonous species but alloctonous, there has been an abuse of incorrect repopulations over the years and today we are faced with a similar result. Therefore, the ban would be at least one sign. Amendment 5.12 is also particularly important and concerns an issue that we consider absolutely incredible. In the text which comes from the Commission, it was decided - indeed, it had appeared very soon in the rapporteur's text - to attribute the exclusive representation of the parks to the Federparchi. We all have no difficulty in admitting the important role played in these years of growth of the protected area system, and that is therefore not the point. We are talking here not about a judgment on the value or work of the Federparchi, but about the fact that it seems a bit unconstitutional to attribute exclusive representation of the park bodies to a single association, in contrast also to Article 18 of the Constitution. Therefore, I would consider our amendment which deletes this hypothesis to be a good thing. I repeat that we do not want to make any judgements about the work and the value, but we just want to underline the fact that, if a Park Authority does not want to associate itself, it does not mean that it is excluded from representation. And this also happens for the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI), since there are also others such as the League of Autonomouss and other small associations. In this sense, we cannot at all compromise the principle of free association which applies to everyone, to citizens, to bodies and to institutions. That is why I believe that the abolition of the rule in question is a matter of common sense. Finally, I would like to highlight amendment 5.137, which - in our opinion - contains a rule for the closure and strengthening of the plan. The plan is, in fact, the main instrument with which the park consolidates the principles of conservation, carries out a series of important operations for the protection of the territory and also gives itself some tools for the management. The rule contained in the amendment, which we present as a kind of closure, provides that the approval of the plan is not allowed within the park interventions in contrast to the protection requirements provided for in the plan itself and, to date of approval, such forecasts and prescriptions are immediately binding and prevailing on all forecasts of urban planning territorial plans. In this regard, there is an old discussion, because this was also true - for example - of the regions that have enacted in the years of the framework laws on parks that explicitly provided that the plans for the layout of the parks themselves were also superordained to the urban planning and regulatory plans. And this is true in some situations - it has not always been worth it - and perhaps applies at national level. I believe that even more so today it would be absolutely necessary to approve Amendment 5,137 as a sort of rule of closure and even of cleaning, in order to avoid the discussions and conflicts, including of interpretation, recorded over the years.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u7	Mr President, Article 5 contains derogations relating to the capture and eventual killing of alien species, which are a major damage to certain territories. However, the limit indicated in the plans and the suggested indications do not seem sufficient to us. Amendment 5.11 calls for control plans to also indicate the total number of capturable or fellible animals, the specific period within which control is carried out and the precise boundaries and areas subject to control operations, as well as the subjects involved in this activity, so that they do not end up banning hunting and then, on the other hand, allowing it. Amendment 5.113 to paragraph 1 (a) of Article 5 proposes the deletion of number 5, which inserts paragraph 5-a into Article 11 of Law No 394 of 1991. This provision provides that Federparchi becomes the body entitled to represent all the managing bodies, although it is not currently and although this Federation is neither free nor, as far as we know, mandatory. So we think it's an absolutely out-of-the-art and probably unconstitutional prediction. With regard to amendment 5.117, it contains the request from the world of environmental movements for greater participation by the park community - also understood as citizenship, environmental groups and others - in the formation of the so-called park consultation, of which all legitimate stakeholders will be able to participate, clearly without any token of presence and increase for the state coffers. This amendment is linked to 5.118, which specifies that all associations of bodies managing protected areas at national or regional level will be institutional representatives of the sector, precisely through the consultation of the park. Amendment 5.136 attempts to eliminate silence-consent in the evaluation of the plan by the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and the Regions. Another amendment that I particularly welcome is 5,145. Up to now, surveillance and management of the parks have been guaranteed by the State Forestry Corps. Therefore, we are very concerned - and we have repeated it several times - with the expected absorption into the Carabinieri's weapon, which could create discontinuity with their function. It is therefore requested that the organic plants of the Park Authority, due to the functions of surveillance and management of the state natural reserves so far guaranteed by the State Forestry Corps, be integrated by the managing bodies of the protected areas also through the absorption of today's organic. To this end, it is requested that environmental technicians and supervisory staff from the Provinces in the process of elimination or absorption of the State Forestry Corps should be included in the park's staff. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u8	Mr President, Amendment 5.138 aims to restore and implement the economic capacity and management of Italian protected areas. In the face of an increasing depletion of the resources that the Government devotes to protected areas, a situation of absolute emergency has been created aimed at safeguarding and preserving them. Urgent and necessary measures are therefore essential to ensure that the managing bodies have greater directional autonomy so as to allow both the promotion and exploitation and the protection and preservation of the areas assigned to them. In particular, as illustrated by paragraph 2 of article 6-a of the bill, inserted by amendment 5.138, the community of the park is called to the elaboration of a multi-annual economic and social plan aimed at the promotion of activities that - as better specified in paragraph 3 - are considered more suitable to face the emerging conditions in which the protected areas are placed. These activities must be identified, without prejudice to the protection of the park, in recreational or sporting activities, as well as in those closely related to the establishment of the so-called eco-cuseums. In this regard, it seems appropriate to stress that these eco-comuseums have reached considerable maturity and importance over the years, playing a role of great interest in academia, local, regional and national institutions, trade associations, in particular agriculture and crafts, operators and, above all, citizens. Therefore, this vast social, cultural and territorial movement deserves to be recognised by the legislator and included in the programme of exploitation of protected areas among other activities worthy of subsidies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u9	Mr President, I am against all the amendments with the exception of identical amendments 5.112, 5.113 and 5.114 and amendment 5.131. The opinion on amendment 5.141 is also in favour, provided that the rapporteur, Mrs Longo, accepts its rewording, which is to delete the term "binding". With regard to Amendment 5,145, I propose that it be transformed into an agenda, otherwise the opinion is against it. The opinion was opposed to the draft agenda. Finally, on the G5101 agenda, I hope that the Government will be able to give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u10	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. The opinion was in favour of the draft agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u11	I would ask Senator Longo, who was the first signatory to amendment 5.141, if she accepts the rapporteur's proposal for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u12	Yes, Mr President, and at the same time I withdraw the other amendments I have tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u13	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u14	Senator Nugnes, do you accept the change in the agenda of Amendment 5,145?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u15	Yes, Mr President, on the basis of the principle that an agenda is always better than nothing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u16	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,100, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5101 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 51.02 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,103 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.04, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words "prohibited." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 5105 and 5106 are therefore not included. Amendment 5.07 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,108, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.109 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.10 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.11 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.112, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendments 5.113, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Moronese, and 5.114, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.15 to 5.118 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.19 tabled by Senators Moronese and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.20 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.21 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,122 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.23 and 5.124 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.25 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.26 tabled by Senators Ceroni and Galimberti, identical to Amendment 5127 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.28 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.29 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.30 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.31 tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 5.32 is impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,133, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,134 tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.35 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,136 tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.137, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5,138, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u19	SIMONI (Mist). Mr President, I would like to know the rapporteur's opinion on the possible withdrawal of the amendment and its transformation into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caleo, I invite you to speak. Mr Caleo, rapporteur. Mr President, the opinion is against it. SIMONI (Mist). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u20	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,138 tabled by Senators Simeoni and Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,139 tabled by Senators Floris and Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.40 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.141 (text 2), tabled by Senator Longo Eva and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.142, tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u23	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to clarify the amendment to Amendment 5.141, which has just been adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u24	The word "vincolante" has been expunged from the text. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,143 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.144 has been withdrawn. Do you insist on voting on the agenda G5.145, Senator Nugnes? NUGNES (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.145, tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda, G5.100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G5.101 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 5 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u25	We greet professors and students of the State Institute of Higher Education "Algeri Marino" in Casoli, in the province of Chieti, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u26	We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 6, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u27	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 6102. Our proposal aims to restore the silence-consent for the release of the clearance by the Park Authority, which is currently provided for by Law No. 394 of 1991. The measure in question eliminates such silence-consent on the inertia of the Park Authority in expressing its opinion on infrastructure interventions, also for cases of minor interventions. So, we believe that the faulty inertia of the Park Authority, which currently has 60 days to express itself, must not at all lead to the paralysis of the administrative procedures of the authorization. We therefore trust that this amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u28	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u29	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u30	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u31	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,100, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6,101 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.12.02 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.103, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 6104 tabled by Senator Ceroni, until the words 'common' themselves are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 6.105 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6106 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u32	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. On Senator Arrigoni's agenda, I call for a rewording of the initial part of the device in the following terms:
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u33	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u34	Senator Arrigoni, do you accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u35	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u36	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 7,101 is impervious. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u39	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in my speech yesterday I tried to stress that we were in line with the idea of simplifying, as well as improving, the use of resources and the opportunities that protected areas express. I must honestly say that Articles 6 and 7 do not go exactly that way. In fact, some amendments, even from a political side known to be very rigorous in examining the possibilities of using protected areas, went in the very direction of simplification, which we would have liked. I would like it to be reflected in the fact that simplification is indispensable and that the Park Authorities themselves can take advantage of the simplification criteria (same governance), also because very often the structures they have are not in a position to express in depths that can then really coincide with the needs of the citizens. In addition, I understand that, on the subject of compensation, Article 7 wants to limit its scope from the point of view of cases. Senator Arrigoni's amendments, on the other hand, tended to widen its scope, in the sense of rendering justice to that strip of territory which is close to the boundaries of the park and which, from the point of view of material damage to agricultural activities, suffers the invasion of breeds that are rightly protected in the area of the Park Authority. These areas are the most exposed to damage, sensitive and serious, and are the subject of constant attention from farmers. [[Brusio.]] Perhaps the subject may not be of interest to us 315 senators, but it affects several thousand and thousands of operators of whom we are called here to support the reasons and defend the rights. From this point of view, I would therefore like to call on colleagues to give greater attention to these issues, which I hope will also be resolved in the stability law. In fact, the law provides incentives both from the State and from the Regions; but whenever a damaged citizen turns to the Region or to the State to obtain these incentives it is heard to answer that there are no funds in the budget chapters.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u40	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 8, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u41	Mr President, I would like to explain, among the amendments that I have tabled in Article 8, only the 8,113, with which we call for the abolition of the royalties for biomass plants that go against agricultural activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u42	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 8,165. In order to remove the Park Authority from the embarrassment, the trouble and the difficulty of choice when it has to make a renewal of concession for increase of the activities, since for the moment it is expected that the royalties are given only to already existing activities, I believe it is necessary to create a bound ministerial fund in which to bring these money together, so that then they are distributed according to the needs of safeguard of the ecosystems, in order not to leave, in fact, the Park Entities in the embarrassment of having to choose between the environmental protection and the profit deriving from this money. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u43	Mr President, Article 8 is - alas - particularly significant, because it concerns one of the most sensitive points of the text and, as far as we are concerned, even more questionable. I spoke in the general debate about the possibility of a zero-cost reform. What's he got on the field? This royalty mechanism has been put in place and should become one of the funding elements. It is true that the presence of plants within the park areas must lead - and it is right that this is the case - to compensation and compensation for the environment, even of an economic nature, precisely because of the problems that it creates, but in the meantime - and on this point the work in the Commission has concentrated - it must, in our view, be made clear that it is only royalty on existing plants. At the same time, however, it must be ensured that this mechanism does not become an element of conditioning of the parks themselves and the managing bodies of the management boards in the issue of nullaosta or authorizations. Let me give an example (I have also tabled an amendment on the question of quarries and mining): it is not that one has a concession per cent, two hundred or a thousand years, but perhaps for ten or twelve years. At a time when it is necessary to make a change or increase the extraction capacity (this may concern this area, but I could give other examples), it is clear to everyone that, if the park has an income, this can also represent a conditioning in the granting of permits. Therefore, it is true that the standard applies to existing plants, but it is also true that this mechanism nevertheless produces a conditioning when it is necessary to proceed - as is the case for any type of plant - to the necessary authorizations with regard to enlargements, shrinkages or other interventions. For this reason not only I but also other senators have tabled amendments to ensure that the percentage that flows into this kind of blind fund at the Ministry of the Environment is significant. The amendments propose, for example, that we reach 70% or 80%, so that most of these resources go to this fund. It is not a matter of not returning them to the parks, but it is clear that to assign them to a blind fund almost equals to the payment of a tax - let's think of the tax on the port of rifle - that it flows anyway into a general fund of the budget of the State: then those resources will be bound and destined certainly to the parks. The increase in the percentage would, in my opinion, also be a precautionary element in order to avoid the possibility of conditioning. Then there is Amendment 8,166, which calls for a special fund to be set up to compensate for the damage caused to agricultural production by wildlife in protected areas and adjacent areas, and of course we are making a proposal on possible funding from the same fund. This is an old proposal of ours; Senator Uras will remember that we presented it also in the stability law of 2014, in which we proposed to finance this fund through a small increase, from 1 January 2018, of the government concession fee for the license of rifle port. For the truth, on that occasion we also made an amazing discovery, in the sense that we realized that the revenue from this tax is actually very low, which suggests that practically no one pays it. The increase in the percentage, and thus the verification, would perhaps also be a way to restore legality and give the State the opportunity to collect these sums. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u44	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 8,105, 8,116, 8,125, 8,130. With regard to amendment 8,145, the opinion was in favour after rewording, i.e. by removing the words "under the conditions laid down by the municipalities." The opinion was also in favour of amendment 8,161. I am also in favour of amendment 8,149 with a rewording to replace the words "70 per cent" (as we have modified the percentage by amendment 8,161) with "50 per cent" (as amended by amendment 8,161). On all the remaining amendments to Article 8, the opinion is opposed. Finally, I am against the G8.100 agenda and the additional amendment 8.0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u45	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u46	Senator Saggese and Senator Mirabelli welcome the requests for reformulation made by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u49	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, on this question of percentages I had tabled amendments 8,158 and 8,159 which provided for different percentages to replace the original one of 30% provided for in paragraph 1, paragraph 1-ddecies of Article 8. I will therefore rephrase them with 50% as the proposed percentage value. Of course, I propose to consider only one of them, and I rephrase it with the words "50 percent".
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u50	If I understand correctly, let us consider amendment 8158, which becomes identical to amendment 8,161. Senator De Petris therefore withdraws amendment 8,159, as well as Senator Moronese withdraws amendment 8,160. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8,100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni, until the words "1- bis" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8,101 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 8,102 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8.103 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,104, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 8,105, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8,106, tabled by Senators Moronese and Nugnes, until the words "31 December" are mentioned. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8,107 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,108, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Galimberti, identical to amendment 8,109, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.10 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Moronese, until the words "lesser" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8.111 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.12 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 8.13 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.14 tabled by Senators Moronese and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.15 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,116, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,117, tabled by Senators Santangelo and Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u53	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, although the vote has already taken place, I would ask you to accept Amendment 8,117.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u54	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.118, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.19, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Moronese, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8,120 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.21 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,122 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.23 tabled by Senator Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,124, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,125, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.26 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,127, tabled by Senator Floris and Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.28 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.29 tabled by Senators Moronese and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,130, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,131 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.32 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,133, tabled by Senators Donno and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,134, tabled by Senator Zizza. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.35 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,136 tabled by Senators Moronese and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.137, tabled by Senators Moronese and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.138, tabled by Senators Moronese and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8,139, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Galimberti, until the words "incomes" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8140 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.141 tabled by Senators Moronese and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.142, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,143, tabled by Senator Saggese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.144, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,145 (text 2), tabled by Senator Saggese. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,146, tabled by Senator Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.147, tabled by Senators Ceroni and Galimberti, identical to amendment 8.148, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,150, tabled by Senator Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,151, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.152, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,153, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8,154, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators, until the words "present law" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8.155 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,156, tabled by Senator Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,158 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 8,161, tabled by Senator Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 8,159 and 8,160 have been withdrawn. On Amendment 8,149 there was a proposal for a rewording by the rapporteur, on which, of course, a favourable opinion was given. I therefore turn to the President of the 5th Budget Commission, Senator Tonini, for an enlightened vision of the financial aspect.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u55	Mr President, on the whole series of amendments which provide for different modulations as to the percentage of revenue to be allocated to this purpose, the opinion of the 5th Commission has been null and void. So, moving the rate from one level to another doesn't change anything. Being a new destination fund there are no cover issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u56	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,149 (text 2), tabled by Senators Mirabelli and Vaccari. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u59	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I have just heard the statement by the President of the Budget Commission, who said that there is no problem with changing percentages. However, it is the same issue that was discussed this morning during the examination of the amendments to Article 2, and President Tonini confirmed the opinion of the Budget Commission, not of simple opposition, but even of opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. But it was the same issue, that was simply to change the percentage of something that was already there. Anyway, we take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u60	Senator De Petris, I understand that in one case it was an old fund and in the other it was a new fund and therefore the two considerations do not apply in the same way. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,162, tabled by Senator Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,163, tabled by Senators Moronese and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,164, tabled by Senators Moronese and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,165, tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,166, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,157, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G8.100, tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u63	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, although the objective of finding funding for the management of parks is acceptable in view of the shortage of state resources, we do not agree with the provision which imposes additional fees on all grantors, on hydro-electric concessions, on mining activities, on the transfer of pipelines and pipelines, on state property, as a contribution to the costs of the Park Agency for the recovery of nature. Moreover, this taxation does not only concern the areas inside the park, also because some activities are precisely prohibited within the parks, but also covers all adjacent areas. I would point out that farmers holding biomass plants in the park areas and adjacent areas will also be subject to the new tax. It is therefore, in any case, an increase in taxation that is not acceptable, especially during the current economic crisis and in view of the difficulties faced by our companies. I therefore confirm the vote against Article 8 by the Group of the North League.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u64	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 8 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 8.0.100 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 9, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u65	Mr President, this is another article which deserves reflection and also our attention and which deals in particular with issues relating to the management of wildlife and the containment of wildlife. In general, therefore, these are issues which have appeared here and there in our debate but which for us still represent a fairly critical element in how the text was ultimately approved and dismissed by the Commission. We have therefore tabled an entirely replacement amendment to the article, the 9,103, which seeks to bring the management and containment of wildlife to absolutely scientific criteria with particular regard to the species that create the greatest problems and the alien species. Now, the debate between us is very clear and has always been so. We all know, I said earlier, that there is a problem of ensuring the protection of biodiversity and therefore of ensuring a very careful and careful balance and management of fauna. What is envisaged in this text does not seem fair to us, nor does it respond effectively to the fundamental criterion of biodiversity conservation, even if ISPRA action is envisaged. First of all, we believe that these interventions must be based on a real plan that considers the need to activate all possible alternative and non-bloody methods, even in the capture and translocation phase. In this respect, the fundamental question is to adopt all possible instruments, accentuating the scientific management of non-bloody alternative methods. The other point that seems to us to be worth pointing out, as the article is written, is that if it were to come to the need for animal control measures, even driven, these must take place on the initiative and under the direct responsibility and supervision of the management body and by employees, forestry or by zoo-profilactic institutions. We must prevent personnel outside these roles, even if they are qualified and trained, from managing these operations by a method which is ultimately not the most correct. We must absolutely avoid that there can be, even remotely, a mix between a hypothesis that may resemble hunting activity and the task of keeping proper control and management of wildlife. I say this not because we want to criminalise one or the other, but because we need to be very clear on this point, since there have been experiences in which the bloody selective interventions have been made by subjects who did not only have the purpose of the park, but also other interests and, although they were trained and good subjects, many problems have opened up. We therefore believe that faunal control must first be based on alternative and scientific methods and management plans and that there must be a clear, precise and clear division between the personnel of the managing body, the forestry body and the police (so, also agents of the public security forces) and that of other associations, as trained and qualified as the text says. Of course, everything has to be done with ISPRA's over-validated methods. We are surprised by the adoption of Senator Longo's amendment 5.141, which shows that all our concerns and concerns were valid. The rapporteur gave a favourable opinion on the proposal to delete ISPRA's binding opinion on hunting regulations and so on. All the more so, therefore, we believe that in this Article 9 the role of ISPRA should be strongly emphasized, specifying in detail the criteria for all the fauna management plans.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u66	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Elio Vittorini" in Messina, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u67	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u68	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments, with the exception of Amendment 9.26, on which I am in favour, provided that the words '50 per cent' are replaced by the following: '30 per cent'. The opinion was also opposed on all agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u69	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u70	Senator De Petris, do you accept the proposal for reformulation put forward by the rapporteur? DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, Mr President, I accept that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u71	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9,100, which is identical to Amendment 9,101. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,100, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators, identical to Amendment 9,101, tabled by Senator Longo Eva and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,102, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 9,103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,103, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,104, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,105, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Galimberti, identical to Amendment 9,106, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.107, tabled by Senator Longo Eva and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,108, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,109, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.10 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,111, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.12 tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.13 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.14, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.15 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,116, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,117, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 918 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.19, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,120, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.21 tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,122, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.23 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Galimberti, identical to Amendment 9124, tabled by Senator Moronese and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.25 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Tonini, did you take a look at Amendment 9,126 (text 2)? I think it's worth the previous speech. Do we have the green light for the 5th Commission? TONINI (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.26 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9,127, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.101, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 9 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u72	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u73	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u74	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,101, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,102, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,103, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,104, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u75	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u76	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u77	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u80	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, perhaps there is Senator Russo who wants to ask for an electronic vote. I wouldn't want to anticipate it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't see him so convinced. Would you ask for an electronic vote, Senator Russo? Mr Russo (PD). No, Mr. President. SANTANGELO (M5S). In fact, it seemed weird to me. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u81	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 11,101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 11,101, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 11,102, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 11,103 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 12, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u82	Mr President, I am opposed to all the amendments, with the exception of Senator Sollo's amendment 12.107, on which I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u83	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u84	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12.100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 12,100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12,101, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 12,102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12,102, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12,103, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12,104, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 12.105, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I would ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.105, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12,106, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12,106, tabled by Senator Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 12.107, tabled by Senator Sollo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 12,108 is therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 12 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares amendment 26.105, as it is unrelated to the object of the draft law under consideration; it also states that amendments 13,100, 15,0.101 and 15,0.102 concerning the tasks of the State Forestry Corps (the State Forestry Corps, in fact, has been absorbed in accordance with Article 7 of Legislative Decree No 177 of 2016, in the Carabinieri Arm), as well as proposal 20.101, which gives a delegation to the Government without the indication of the principles and the guiding criteria. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 13, on which an amendment has been tabled which has been declared inadmissible. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 13. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 14, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u85	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 14.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u86	Mr President, my opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u87	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,100, tabled by Senator Longo Eva and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,101, tabled by Senator Longo Eva and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.102, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 15 and its amendments, which are intended to include an additional article, which is described and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u88	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u89	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u90	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.0.100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 15.0.101 and 15.0.102 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 16. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 17, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u91	Mr President, this is one of the articles that we have unfortunately intercepted as responding to a different logic from what we intended for the composition of this reform, especially as regards a whole series of forecasts which, during this parliamentary term and the previous ones, have been made in order to reduce the penalty burden of certain situations, which are certainly not criminally relevant, but are administratively prosecutable and certainly not with this intensity. On the other hand, Article 17 proposes sanctions that even come to an end and double the existing figures, even though some years have passed since the introduction of the reform. In a climate in which, overall, Parliament has been repeatedly committed to decriminalizing and reducing sanctions even for crimes that are very damaging to public opinion, we continue to insist on some crimes that end up affecting fishermen and some economic operators who live on the margins of protected areas and who, at times, can, even blamelessly, stumble on some infringements that should be of a purely administrative nature. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments and, in relation to them, we are waiting for a clarification from the Government regarding the management of these incidents by the protected areas. If there were to be a clarification that could remove some of our concerns, I would point out to the rapporteur that, with regard to Amendment 17.109, we could also consider turning it into an agenda. I say this because very often - and in this law the temptation is in this sense - we go to confer the rank of criminal law on measures of administrative bodies, often enacted with simple circulars. It is a problem of legal structure, not only of the measure but of our legal system. Unfortunately, for too long we have been used, as citizens, to suffer criminal consequences also resulting from circulars: for what little I have learned on school and university benches, in our legislation a criminal law should only be enacted by Parliament and certainly not a rule decided by administrative management bodies. In this respect, we would like a word of clarity, and above all we would like the figures reported to be again the equivalent of the conversion of liras into euros, without any increase, even if we understand the passage of time. As I have said, there are already very high deadlines for sanctions, even against weak groups, such as fishermen, who live on the margins of the survival and balance of the economic balance of their activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u92	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u93	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u94	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments with the exception of 17,101 and 17,107 on which I am in favour. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, I shall withdraw Amendment No 17,0.100 and ask briefly whether it is possible to turn it into an agenda by removing the part on which the Budget Commission has voted against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u95	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. With regard to amendment 17,0.100, the Government is in favour of turning it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u96	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 17,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u99	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I had asked the Government for a point of clarity on the matter of the planned arrest of certain means of crossing sea areas. I renew the request to the Government if it considers it to be clear; otherwise we will vote on the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If the Undersecretary wishes, he may reply otherwise, he may remain silent.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u100	Mr President, since Senator D'Alì is asking for a statement, we are saying: there is no arrest for crossing zone C in the protected marine areas of the Egadi, but the issue of a permit for passage. The conduct criminally relevant is that connected to the release of the trawling nets during the passage that in any case, to be reported to the magistrate, requires the contestation in flagrante by the captain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u103	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the clarification of the Government, which naturally remains in the proceedings of the debate, constitutes an unorthodox behaviour on the part of those who may be prosecuted, in this case also with the arrest. Although I am conceptually opposed to applying a criminal law of this kind, if it really applies only to those who carry out violations in such a clear way and in doing so are caught in flagrant crime, I withdraw amendment 17,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u104	Amendment 17,100 is therefore withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.101, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 17,102 and 17,103 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.104, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.105 tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.106, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.107, tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u107	GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment 17.107, which we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u108	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 17.108.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u111	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as announced in the introduction of the amendments, the Government's intervention prompts me to withdraw Amendments 17,108 and 17,109 and to turn them into an agenda, the text of which I have already sent to the rapporteur and, if possible, I would also like to send the representative of the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u112	Mr President, the rapporteur is against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u113	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u114	Senator D'Alì, do you keep the amendments? D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President, I keep them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.108, tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 17.109, tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 17 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G17.0.0100 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 18, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u115	Mr President, I would like to explain the G18.100 agenda, which could be taken into account where the amendments to Article 18 have not been transposed by the rapporteur or by the Government. In particular, I refer to the request for the establishment of the Barsento National Park, in an area with high naturalistic, historical and archaeological value in Puglia, and precisely on the Murgia dei trulli, in the province of Bari. If we do not intervene and even soon, we could miss the opportunity to regulate an ecosystem that must absolutely be protected and safeguarded. Therefore, I believe that there are all the conditions in order to be able to commit the Government so that this park finally comes to life, also in view of a very long iter for the regime of protection that the local administrations and the Puglia Region had begun. I remember that already in 1976 this area was subjected to the safeguard regime through the establishment of an oasis of wildlife protection. Meanwhile, the local administrations of Alberobello, Castellana Grotte, Noci and Putignano have been able to identify and approve a delimitation of the potential park and the Puglia Region has enacted a consequential legislation. Today, unfortunately, after so many years, a protection regime is not yet in place. For this reason, I propose both the amendments, which I would perhaps be willing to withdraw, and the agenda which commits the Government to assessing the need to set up this park. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the G18.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u116	Mr President, I am in favour of the G18.100 agenda, provided that the system is reworded as follows: It shall consider the possibility of providing for the establishment of a nature reserve in the areas of Barsento, while ensuring the financial, human and instrumental resources necessary for its operation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u117	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u118	Senator Liuzzi, do you accept the proposed reformulation? LIUZZI (CoR). Yes, Mr President, and I would ask that the agenda, so reworded, be put to the vote. STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). I would ask you to sign the agenda G18.100 (text 2). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G18.100 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G18.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Liuzzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments aimed at adding an additional article after Article 18.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u119	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 18.0.100 (text 3) while the opinion is against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u120	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u121	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 18.0.100 (text 3), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 18.0.101 to 18.0.104 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 18.0.0.105, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, having adopted the G18.100 agenda (text 2), I withdraw Amendments 18.0.105 and 18.0.106. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 19, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u122	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u123	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u126	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u127	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to Amendment No 19,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 19.100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 20, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u128	Mr President, I am against Amendment 20,100 and, of course, I am in favour of Amendment 20,0,100, which I signed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u129	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u132	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I have not understood the reasons for the inadmissibility of Amendment 20.101, of which I am first a signatory. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 20.101 has been declared inadmissible because it gives a delegation to the Government without any indication of the guiding principles and criteria. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). The amendment provides that the Government is delegated to adopt a legislative decree for the establishment of the park and to prepare the understanding with the Region: that is the indication and is very clear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The principles and guiding criteria of delegation are lacking. It is unacceptable for the Presidency. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). What do you mean they're missing? The delegation is at the establishment of the park. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The amendment provides that the Government is delegated to adopt, within six months (...) a legislative decree... but then lacks the principles and guiding criteria. The delegation cannot be formulated in this way. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). The delegation shall be at the establishment of the national park. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Here's a delegation to the government... DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). ...to adopt, in agreement with the Region, a legislative decree for the establishment of the park of the ancient Appia and the Agro Romano. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Petris, I would like to read to you the opinion of the 1st Commission, to which we both belong, on Amendment 20.101. The opinion shall be non-observatory, provided that the principles and guiding criteria are included in the delegation provisions provided for therein, in accordance with Article 76 of the Constitution. They are, in fact, missing. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). I therefore propose a rewording of the amendment, removing the delegation to the Government and providing for the establishment of the park directly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The text, in this case, should be referred back to the 5th Commission for its opinion and stops... DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). I know. Look, we will see it in the Commission, but it is clear that the guiding principle of delegation is exactly that of the establishment of the park and therefore, honestly, I do not understand the reasons. Obviously it is not his fault, but it is clear what the criterion is.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u133	Unfortunately, I have no room for manoeuvre on the issue of inadmissibility. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 20,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20,100, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 20.101 is inadmissible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 20.0.100, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 21. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 21.0.100 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 22, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u134	Mr President, this is how we come to the single opinion: the Park Authority also makes use of the possibility of issuing an environmental opinion, removing this prerogative from the bodies in charge, i.e. the supervisors. During the general discussion, we heard some colleagues say that the superintendences are an obstacle to free entrepreneurship, to the activities that make this country progress. We don't think so at all. We believe, instead, that this game of the parties aimed at incorporating the binding opinion of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism in the definition of the plan, and therefore of the guidelines of the plan, and then remove it in the phase of authorization of the works, is precisely the classic game of the three cards. I imagine how to ask for the opinion to make the best possible guidelines and then we miss something when we have to give environmental authorization because there are no competences (and we go back to the concept of competences) to grant that environmental authorisation. We will, as it were, have a reference manual and we will take the courage to determine whether the planned works are in conformity. I believe that this is very serious, but, by the way, it is in perfect line with what is happening in this parliamentary term because we are going in that direction. We have a measure which is a simplified environmental authorisation. I'd like to show you a picture of a pavement made in Lecce, where it was asphalted in front of a baroque church. This will happen because we fix ex post, when things are already done, even with the SCIA 2. First the works are realized and then if anything it is estimated that they were not conformed, but it cannot be repaired when the damage has already been done. This is not called simplification. We are doing a great deal of damage to our cultural heritage and we do not realize that the heritage we have - naturalistic and cultural - is not ours: it belongs to our children and grandchildren. It belongs to the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And we cannot sell it out as we are doing with this measure which also mercies parks and natural resources. We are doing this with other measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u135	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u136	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u137	Mr President, I have avoided speaking on most of the amendments tabled because I had already given extensive explanations in general debate, but on this point, also to reassure my fellow senators about what they are voting for, I would like to clarify what we have introduced, in agreement with MIBACT and with the Ministry's Cultural Policy Observatory, within which all the major associations, as well as art and landscape experts, are located. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes]] We have voted on an article, previously, which requires parks to draw up the park plan taking into account the landscape plans of their respective regions. In the absence of landscape plans (and there are very few regions that have them), refer to the articles of the Urban Code, which determine the constraints of the landscape. Not only that: the park must do the strategic environmental assessment, which was not planned before. Well, we say that once the park plan has been adopted and landscape regulations have been introduced, it seems unnecessary to give our opinion twice. The park, in fact, has already complied with the regulations of the Urban Code and it is not necessary to waste time in further verifications; not by chance on this point, which is very close to the MIBACT, was given a favourable opinion. I wanted to reassure my colleagues that there will be no scars, no violence against landscape goods. In fact, in my opinion, with this system, we will protect them even more. On the skills, in these years, within the protected areas, have arrived the best skills that we can have with regard to the technical part. So I invite the senators to be quiet. We're not voting on anything weird. There's no free exit to the landscape rapists. On the contrary, there is greater protection and rigour. For these reasons, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u138	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u139	Amendment 22,100 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 22.101. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.101, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 22.102, tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 22.103 tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 23. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 23. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to Article 24, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u140	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. On Amendment No 24.0.101, I would ask the presenter, Senator Dalla Tor, if he is willing to turn it into an agenda. In that case, the opinion would be favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u141	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u142	I would like to ask Senator Dalla Tor if he accepts the proposed change of agenda for amendment 24.0.101 tabled by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u143	Mr President, it would have been important for me for the amendment to be accepted... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Dalla Tor, consider that there is also the opposite view of the 5th Commission. I don't think there's a cost problem. However, I am pleased that there is a willingness to accept an agenda on this issue. I therefore welcome the rapporteur's proposal and have already prepared a text to be forwarded to the rapporteur and to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u144	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 24,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24,100, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 24.101, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Galimberti, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 24.102 and 24.103 are therefore excluded. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 24.104, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 24.105, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 24.106, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.107, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 24. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 24.0.100 is impervious. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G24.0.101 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.0.102, tabled by Senator Longo Eva and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 25, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u145	Mr President, Article 25 of the draft law on protected areas delegates to the Government for the establishment of the Po Delta Park. The establishment of this Park would not allow to adequately protect the populations living in this beautiful area of the Country, which would run the risk of being penalized. In fact, the provisions mentioned in Article 25 would not be placed in the perspective of the current needs, in which human activities would be severely weighed down by the constraints imposed and the planning of the Park. Together with my colleague Amidei, I have tabled amendments to defend the people and those who have been working in the Park for many years, for generations. We have tabled Amendment 25.102, which calls for specific measures to protect small-scale fisheries and tourism fisheries and to ensure greater control in an effort to prevent illegal fishing activities contributing to the crisis in the sector. Furthermore, we wonder how hunting will be regulated when it is planned for the establishment of the Park Authority, when the same rules underlie regional rules. With amendment 25.101 we ask that the operational headquarters of the organs of the Po Delta Park be located taking into account the territorial extension and, therefore, in the Province of Rovigo. One cannot ignore the peculiarity of a territory and the needs of it, as well as the present and future activities and one cannot and must not proceed in any way without first having taken due account of the will of the local people who live and work there, either directly or through their own representations. For this reason, we have tabled amendments 25.103 and 25.104, so that you have the time to listen to our territory before adopting the decree. Forewarning that, in the event of non-acceptance of the proposed amendments, the vote of the Fare component! of the Mixed Group will vote against Rule 25.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u148	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, in the previous vote, the Group's intention was to abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u149	The Presidency takes note of this. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u150	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments, with the exception of Amendment No 25.105, on which I am in favour, provided that the words 'with the relevant regulations' are expunged. I am in favour of the G25.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u151	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u152	Senator Vaccari, do you agree with the rewording of amendment 25.105 proposed by the rapporteur? VACCARI (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 25,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u153	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Amidei and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 25,100. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u156	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I would like to endorse Senator Vaccari's amendment 25.105 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u157	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 25.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u160	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote in favour of this amendment and all subsequent amendments to Senator Amidei's first signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u161	I call on Senator Amidei and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 25.101. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Amidei and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 25.102. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.103, tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 25.104 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.105 (text 2), tabled by Senator Vaccari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.106, tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.107, tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 25.108, tabled by Senator Amidei. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.109, tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u164	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I would like to point out that my vote on Amendment 25.100 was in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u167	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, on behalf of the whole Group, I support Senator Amidei's G25.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u168	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G25.100, presented by Senator Amidei and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 25.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u171	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, the position of the Lega Nord Group on Article 25, which states "Delegate to the Government for the establishment of the Po Delta Park," I believe that it also represents that of the Veneto Region on the hypothesis of establishing this interregional park. This position follows the meetings that are taking place on the territory with the mayors and with the representatives of the category. Firstly, there is absolute opposition to the hypothesis of national park. Governance must remain in the hands of the territories. It is not acceptable that the creation of a single park is prodromic at the birth of a national park, as Mr Caleo said in his report to the measure. I remember that the negotiation started with the Veneto Region and the Government started from the concept of special law on the Delta and assumed a hypothesis of management coordination between the two parks and not a national park. There is a clear opposition to the extension of the park area and the introduction of new constraints on the territory. The park must be interpreted not as a straitjacket, but as an element of development and promotion of the territory and human activities existing in it, in particular fishing, valley farming, agriculture and hunting. The necessary role of human activities for Delta's livability, maintenance and productivity must therefore be clear. Since the Venetian part of the park is of the greatest naturalistic value and having peculiarities of the economic and social environmental point of view completely distinct from the Emilian one, it must necessarily have adequate representation and own managerial autonomy within the institution. We then want to understand whether and how much resources will be allocated by the Government to the aforementioned park; finally, there will have to be full involvement of local institutions and productive categories. It would never be accepted a park that is the result of the only vision of environmental associations and that bypasses the institutional and economic representatives of the territory. I therefore believe that the final decision of the Veneto Region on the legislative decree of the Government will be taken in the light of the previous aspects and after hearing the territory. For the Lega Nord-Autonomie Group it must remain a firm point that no decision must be imposed from above and without the full involvement of the population. The Region will be the guarantor of this. In the light of these remarks, as well as concerns, the Lega Nord-Autonomie Group will vote to abstain on Article 25 pending the exercise of the delegation by the Government for the expression of an overall final opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u174	VACCARI (PD). Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote for the Democratic Party, expressing my strong support for the content of Article 25, which was the result of delays in the implementation of what was already to be an interregional park. Appropriately the two Regions, Emilia-Romagna and Veneto, and the two Ministries, of the environment and cultural heritage, agreed on the need, but above all on the opportunity to relaunch this instrument and this occasion of sustainable development of the territories. Article 25 does nothing but reiterate this aspect: therefore, there is no national park on the horizon, but there are clear guidelines on how to develop the exercise of the delegation by the Government, on the basis of a very precise indication, i.e. the delegation can be exercised with the agreement of the two Regions. So my colleague Mr Arrigoni's concerns seem to me to be at least unfounded in relation to the actual content of the article.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u175	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 25 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 26, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government are referred.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u176	Mr President, I am opposed to all the amendments to Rule 26 and the agenda and to the additional amendment 26.0.100 (text 2) by Senator Fravezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u177	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u178	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 26.100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 26,100, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 26.101, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 26.102, tabled by Senators Moronese and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 26.103, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 26.104, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 26.105 is unacceptable. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G26.100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 26. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.0.0100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Fravezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). After examining the articles and amendments, having carried out more than 200 votes and in order to give continuity to the explanations of vote, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u179	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-719.ana.u180	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 10 November, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.55.
