ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on the resumption of negotiations in the civil service and on the reform of the rules governing public management, to which the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration, Mr Madia, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us now turn to questions on the resumption of negotiations in the civil service. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u6	ANGIONES (PD). Minister, the question I intend to put to you concerns the careers of Italian researchers at a stage of reorganization of employment contracts in public administrations. In fact, with the recent reduction in the public bargaining sectors, in application of Legislative Decree No. 150 of 2009, the so-called Brunetta law, has been created a unique sector, which puts together the school with the university and research. It is clear that there is a disproportionate number of sectors in which there is a risk of producing contractual rules which fail to take account of the specific nature of the research sector, with an impact on the careers of researchers, which must increasingly compete, as we know, in a European and international context. Among other things, the parliamentary committees which recently expressed themselves on the draft legislative decree for the simplification of public research bodies, which is an instrument aimed at creating a system of rules more suited to the peculiarities of public research bodies, have not failed to underline, in their opinions, the need to apply the request for the exploitation of the contractual model of the research institutions system, a principle contained in the delegation, which, in my opinion, has not yet found a timely implementation in the proposed scheme. To conclude, Minister, I would like to ask you what strategies you intend to put in place in view of the renewal of the State contract, in the new framework for reducing sectors, with a view to achieving the desired results also by Parliament, ensuring a system of rules able to enhance the professional characteristics of Italian researchers and promote the conditions of attractiveness of the Italian system and of mobility, in and out, in the European research area.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u9	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Minister, the renewals of public employment contracts are, in fact, mainly due to the difficulty of finding resources. In the budget law, resources seem to be few and imply wage increases which are not significant for every employee. I therefore ask you why organic plants should not be redesigned at both central and peripheral levels, which should accompany the work of simplification, digitisation of public administration and reduction of red tape for citizens and businesses, and if, therefore, with organic plants that are leaner and more consistent with the new needs of the country, it is not intended to introduce a serious premium system, based on benchmarking and detaxation of production also in the public sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u12	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Dear Minister, the data and facts known to date give us a gloomy picture of the renewal of the contracts of the state. The budget law sees the Public Administration Fund as a total of 1.92 billion euros, but the 300 million of the last Stability Act is also included, never used because the negotiations for renewals have not even started. EUR 1.62 billion remains, from which 140 million are to be cut for school recruitment, so the budget bill for the heart of public employment interventions falls to 1.48 billion. Only the renewal of the 80 euro bonus, however, costs 510 million, thus reaching 970 million, which will also serve to finance new recruitments and to cover the costs reflected, i.e. the contribution costs produced by the adjustments to the paychecks. The share thus falls to 450 million euros. Even if we add up the 300 million last year, net of similar charges on these too, we reach less than 700 million. Given the necessary calculations, the state wage increases would thus vary from a minimum of 20 gross monthly euros to a maximum of about 60 gross euros per month. If confirmed, these figures would repay less than a third of what was lost by the state in the last seven years due to the termination of the contract. Mr. Minister, can you confirm or deny these figures? What concrete initiatives does the Government intend to put in place so that civil servants can recover what was lost by blocking contracts, sanctioned, as we know, by the Constitutional Court, thus guaranteeing to all employees of the public administration affected by the blocking procedures for the progressive realignment and adaptation of salaries to constitutional standards?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u15	URAS (Mixed). Minister, it is well known that the Constitutional Court intervened in judgment No 178 of 24 June 2015 declaring the system of suspension of collective bargaining concerning public employment unlawful. A year and a half has passed since the Court's ruling and contracts have not been renewed. The financial allocations provided for in the budget law, which are still to be approved, are objectively inadequate to meet the requirements of the renewal of the contract of the whole public system. Even, there are consumer associations that are promoting legal maxiation, in order to recover part of the purchasing power of public administration wages. We therefore have a fairly worrying overall situation, partly because the dialogue with the trade unions is progressing fairly slowly. We are asking ourselves, Minister, what initiatives you intend to take, what is the timetable for unblocking the salaries of civil servants and, finally, whether there is an appropriate attitude to understanding the problems of certain categories of public employment and, in particular, the armed forces and the security and public order forces.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u18	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr Minister, my previous colleagues have also spoken about the decision No 178 of the Constitutional Court. So now the Constitutional Court is the body that really makes politics in Italy, because it decides both on disputes between the State and the Regions, and, also by majority (eight to seven), on the laws of the Italian Parliament. Now, apart from this criticism to be considered quote, the contested rules in fact provided for the blocking of the contractual renewals of the public employment for the three years 2010-2012, with possibility of extension until 2014, freezing the economic treatment perceived by all employees of the public employment. The reasons for that judgment show that the contract is of considerable importance to the public service. It concerns both the economic aspect, in its fundamental and ancillary components, and the rights and obligations relating to the employment relationship, as well as matters relating to trade union relations. Therefore, as well as bureaucracy (public employment is also bureaucracy, over which simplification is necessary: it must be pruned and its plethoracity is perceived by all citizens), as well as looking at quality and not at quantity, we believe that public employees should be adequately paid, because it is necessary to have a public employment up to the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u21	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mrs. Minister, undoubtedly speaking of public employment bargaining, we cannot avoid talking about judgment No 178, by which the Constitutional Court declared the constitutional illegitimacy of the regime of suspension of bargaining to take place. I refer to certain principles of the Court's judgment: The national contract is a central element of redistributive social equity at the basis of the whole system. Each worker shall have the right to a sufficient remuneration, proportionate to the quantity and quality of the work carried out, and to professional dignity, always in line with the cost of living and purchasing power. The government has been slow to set the machine in motion to implement this judgment and now we are already one year after its pronunciation and we see no application of it; indeed, in the current budget we read an appropriation of only 300 million euros for all the public employment, which, by making two accounts, is equivalent to approximately 16 euros generalized and, only for the defence and security sector, to about 50-60 euros. These resources seem really scarce to us, considering the many men and women who work in the police forces and who, having to guarantee security, are now forced to work in conditions of extreme discomfort. I would like to mention some malfunctions: for example, the vetusity of the car park in this sector or the bulletproof vests completely expired, some even unsuitable for protection from weapons, such as the Kalashnikovs, with which they deal daily, an aspect that undoubtedly exposes them to a serious danger, even in view of the current main threat, which is the terrorist threat. We therefore ask you, Mrs Minister, whether the Government intends to open negotiations for contractual renewals simultaneously for the entire public sector (as we ask) or whether it intends to proceed in sectors up to the competition of the resources allocated. In the latter case, given the sensitivity and specificity of the function I have just mentioned, we would like to know whether the Government does not consider it appropriate to start negotiations on security and defence immediately.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u24	PERRONE (CoR). Minister, how does the Government intend to respond to the numerous sentences of condemnation by the courts of merit? One of the last ones is the Court of Gela and condemns the Minister of the Interior, to whom the workers of the public sector, in a single or associated form, have appealed against the blocking of the renewal of public employment contracts, obtaining compensation for the damage and legal expenses in favour of civil servants? How does the Government intend, more than a year later, to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court n. 178 of July 2015 by which the Supreme Court had declared the constitutional illegitimacy of the regime of blocking the negotiation and the automatic wage for civil servants, resulting from a whole series of provisions introduced from decree-law n. 98 of 2011 (the so-called corrective manoeuvre), specified by the decree of the President of the Republic n. 122 of 2013 and extended by the laws of stability of 2014 and 2015? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Madia, Minister for Simplification and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u25	Madam President, senators and senators, the crisis has led to a double blockage in the public sector, the first was that of wage dynamics, the second was that of hiring. When the Renzi Government was installed, immediately, with the policy of 80 euros, we wanted to give a breath of oxygen to those who, even in the public sector, had more economic difficulties and income - in fact, one in four public workers had 80 euros - and I, from the beginning, always held on this issue a line of absolute truth, claiming that we should have returned as soon as possible to a condition of normality. Normality means to have contracts, to make contracts and also to ensure that in the public sector they can enter in a regular way, with regular competitions, the professionalities that serve to strengthen the services for the citizens. In this sense I respond to Senator Pelino: an important innovation will be the one we will introduce with the unique text on public employment, which we will present in February: the transition from organic plants to needs. Of course, this will have to be combined with the possibility for administrations to carry out regular competitions. With this line of truth, in last year's law of stability we have allocated resources that allowed us to reopen a firm path for many years and, subsequently, an excellent job has been done also with the unions, which has allowed us to reduce the sectors of bargaining to four. This was and is a regulatory condition that blocked us in the reopening of contracts: to reopen the contract season, in fact, we had to reduce the sectors to four and we managed to do so. But I want to reassure Senator Angioni: the knowledge sector can have sections that enhance certain specificities and I think it will be right, for example, to recognize, in that sector, the specificity of research. Having taken this important step together with the trade unions, we come to the budget law that we are currently debating in Parliament. Let me tell Senator Endrizzi and Senator Divina that it is not a matter of confirming or denying figures here: it is a matter of reading the text which, after its approval in the Council of Ministers, has arrived in Parliament. In fact, both Senator Endrizzi and Senator Divina quoted figures that are not found in that text. In this year's budget law, I repeat, under discussion in Parliament, I believe for the first time after many successive governments that did exactly the opposite, we have planned an important investment to enhance the people who work in the public service. First of all, there is a Fund of 1.920 billion for 2017, which will become 2.630 billion in 2018. This fund can be allocated to make the most of the security sector, i.e. law enforcement, but also to reopen the economic part of public contracts. There are also other important investments: there is a fund of 3 billion for local authorities; there is an increase of 2 billion in the health fund and part of this increase will serve to recruit extraordinary doctors and nurses; there is a further increase, after the investment already made by the government on the school, of a billion precisely on it. Forgive me if I insist on these figures, but I have been accustomed to Ministers dealing with the public sector who, ritually, before the discussion of the law of stability, in the Council of Ministers asked for more resources and, then, punctually, arrived a law of stability that cut the figures on health, school, public employment in absolute value. We, with this budget law, do exactly the opposite. In particular, since it is a theme that has been recalled, with regard to the Forces of order, after years of increases or decimal decreases, we have the resources to bring to that section increases of percentage points. After having, in the first budget law of the Government, overcome the blockade of the progressions and of the shots, with the budget law of last year introduced for the Forces of the order the 80 euros, we, with this budget law, have the resources to stabilize the 80 euros, to make a serious reorganization of the careers and also to proceed to extraordinary hirings that serve in the field. Going back to the reopening of the contract season, I met the unions in July and, after that meeting, there were several informal technical meetings with the ARAN. We have never failed the interlocutions and at this point - and I conclude - let me say that, given the budget law, the fund that I mentioned before and the interlocution that I have with the unions, we are ready, after years, to reopen a contractual season that sees, on the one hand, guaranteed the beginning of a journey, with an economic part that there is, and, at the same time, with the possibility of acting also on the regulatory part. Given, in fact, that the last legislative decree implementing the reform of the public administration will be the only text on public employment, we have the possibility and, I believe, the duty to proceed to a new innovative contract season also on the legislative part and I really hope that all this can be done together with the unions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u26	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u29	ANGIONES (PD). Madam President, I would like to say straight away that I am absolutely satisfied with Mrs Ministro's reply, which recognised the specific nature of the research sector, which could also be matched by a specific contract. I entrust myself to these statements and I am sure that the Government will follow them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u32	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, the resources put in place by the Government for the 2017 contractual renewals, if divided by the large number of employees, are worth about ten euros net per month. The problem of pleonastic and obsolete organic plants, however, remains everything, as remains the problem of meritocracy between those who work and those who do not (the famous smart cards of the card) in the public administration. Only if we simplify, if we reduce burdens and burdens for citizens and businesses, if at the same time we complete the digitisation of public administration, can we also think of a meritorious reform of the public service.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u35	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Minister, do not recognise the rights and do not guarantee adequate levels of pay for school workers, health workers, law enforcement, tax workers, essential services, universities and research, it reduces the quality of life of the weakest citizens, but it also dequalifies the activity of public administration by hindering the growth of the country. Now, you yourself confirm that the data we have given are correct: in the budget law we talk about 1.92 billion and all the related reductions. You yourself spoke of the 80 euros, which are included. I assume that there are no measures necessary to achieve a decent contract of state: there is no political will to recognize what is right and useful also for the country. In Rome, the mayor Raggi's junta in four months unlocked the B's share of the ancillary salary, healing a wound inflicted by the previous administrations, who had not been able to block the real waste. On this double front, in three years, its Government has produced no results; indeed, it encourages total evasion with punctuality and further condonions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u38	URAS (Mixed). Madam Minister, we take note of your response, including with regard to the reopening of dialogue with trade unions. However, we are expressing a concern, which we hope will be overcome abundantly by the debate on the budget law. The budget law is not yet passed and we think that the public service game is still open, both in the House and in the Senate, if this House will have the opportunity to improve the text of the budget law, because all the needs must be taken into account. Some needs have emerged, those of the security department, the armed forces and public order, but there are many others that are particularly suffering, so it is necessary to intervene with adequate financial resources.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u41	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam Minister, of course we are satisfied, because you are right: just read the text that came out of the Council of Ministers to see that there is a reversal of the trend in this budget law from the previous ones. Of course, if we could do more, it would be better, and I believe that in the passages between the House and the Senate we will strive to make some improvements and we are sure that, where possible, the Government will accept them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u44	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mrs. Minister, it's a shame you didn't bring all the budget documents here to refute your numbers; it was impossible, but we have the numbers we have quoted. The very fact that you, like your President-in-Office, continue with spot actions like the EUR 80 shows that we are no longer talking about proportionate adjustments or adjustments to needs. The 80 euros have become your commercial maneuver. Well, I remember that, by means of spot maneuvers, you now had to ask 1,500,000 workers to return the 80 euros because they were wrongly given them. It is not even so strange that the Government disagrees with the dictates of the Constitutional Court: it has also done so on pension reform and the decree-law saves Italy: the Government interpreted precisely what was to be an adjustment, adjusting to 20% pensions that reached 1,000 euros and even to 5% those that exceeded 1,500-1,600 euros. We can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u47	PERRONE (CoR). Minister, the EUR 80 cannot cover all the shortcomings. I call on you and the Government to consider unblocking the turnover, because with the 25% ceiling, there is a considerable shortage of staff. I hope that this proposal will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u48	Let us now turn to questions on the reform of public management discipline, which will be answered by the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration, Mr Madia.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u51	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Egregio Minister, with the legislative decree governing the public management, pursuant to Article 11 of Law n. 124 of 7 August 2015, has been introduced the reform of the public management that, according to the wishes of the Government, should serve to promote greater dynamism in the system ensuring the interchange of the managers from one administration to another, the mobility, in the vertical and horizontal sense, of the managers, connected to the creation of the single role, as well as the institution of the Commission for the state leadership, with functions of guarantee of the procedure of conferment and revocation of the managerial positions. In our view this was certainly not the priority to make public administration more efficient. In fact, the high costs of the public administration machinery lie not only in the poor management of public employees in a top position; indeed, the waste is mainly found in a not optimal management of administrative action linked to unjustified or irrational expenses. We are talking about situations where resources, although used for public purposes, are not used in the best, most productive and most effective way, due to a non-rigid approach to the method. The reform of fiscal federalism could mark an unprecedented turning point in our state system. It is a reform that contains a renewed body aimed at defining a multi-level finance system that declines, in a unique and original way, the relations between the State, autonomousness and the European Union, in order to ensure a unified and coherent coordination, not only of public finance but also of the same public policies between the different levels of government. In order to be able to cut expenditure in a selective manner, a basic principle must be respected, namely the identification of standard requirements and the consequent application of standard costs. The cuts must not be made on balance sheets, but above all on preventive budgets, and this is not the case to date. I therefore ask you, Minister, to know whether you and the Government intend to take action in all the relevant fora, with a view to systematically predicting the identification of standard needs and the relative application of standard costs to all public administrations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u54	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, the legislative decree on public management is highly articulated. It seems to us that the following points remain unresolved: there is no suitable system of assessment of managerial capacity; there is a wide discretion for the re-confirmation of the manager or the assignment of a higher level of office; there is little organizational flexibility and little rotation of tasks; there is too much difference between the salaries of the managers and those of some officials, to which certain managerial functions could be attributed to ensure a career path for the most deserving employees. I therefore ask you if you are not missing an opportunity, for public administration, for serious openness to private management and the organisational models used by this; if you do not think that it would be more appropriate for the judgment on public management, compared to the services rendered, to be left above all to the assessment of citizens and if you do not think that there has been an underestimation of the costs that this reform will actually entail.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u57	PUGLIA (M5S). Dear Minister, the opinion of the Council of State on the draft legislative decree implementing the law of reform of the public management, approved by the Government, expresses a clear disappointment about the inspiring ratio and the contents of the reform of the public management. The opinions expressed by the Constitutional Affairs Committees of the Chamber and Senate, with the content certainly less clear and assertive of the opinion rendered by the Council of State and with the obvious intent of mediation, however, bring some observations and subordinate the opinion favorable to multiple conditions on several fronts, demanding deep interventions of modification of the text launched by the Government. The strongest concern is that his decree, Minister, involves the total subordination - not to say the enslavement - of public leadership to politics. Let us remember that the Constitutional Court has long affirmed the principle that managerial work must be regulated in such a way as to guarantee the continuity of administrative action and a clear functional distinction between the tasks of political and administrative direction and those of management and, consequently, must be surrounded by guarantees, as the functional dependence of the manager cannot become political dependence. These principles were also accepted by the very recent opinion of the Council of State. We ask you: in the light of the negative remarks of the associations of category, the Council of State and the obvious risk of unconstitutionality of the text, what initiatives does the Government intend to put in place in order to avoid that the provisions of the decree in question involve the perennial precariousization and the non total independence of the manager, in clear contrast to the articles 97 and 98 of the Constitution, from which the principle of full managerial autonomy of the managerial activity is derived, which implies the necessity of the separation between politics and public administration, which is and must continue to be, at the service of the nation and not of the majority in turn?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u60	URAS (Mixed). Minister, we believe that the measure that has been promoted, on the basis of the law of delegation, for the modification of the system of public administration and, in it, also of the public management, still maintains some criticalities. In particular, we refer to the third function that the management of the public administration must carry out in the management of the apparatuses of the State and the local authorities and also to the necessary motivation with which it must do so, which recalls a function of service towards the community, whether it be of citizens, social or even economic subjects. Our concern is precisely the bond that the public leadership maintains with respect to those who must exercise political responsibility. The separation of functions is particularly evident in the division of tasks: who is responsible for the planning of interventions and who is responsible for managing the financial resources and structures to achieve the objectives; who is responsible for indicating the objectives and who is responsible for implementing them. I would ask you, Minister, if you consider this type of criticality, if you still recognize its presence in the recently approved standardization and if you think of ways to overcome these limits and make the necessary corrections.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u63	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, Minister Madia, with the legislative decree governing public management pursuant to Article 11 of Delegate Act No 124 of 2015, the reform of public management has been introduced to ensure the good performance, efficiency and transparency of public administration. We know that the reform has raised criticism and fearful issues of unconstitutionality, while elsewhere (we are among them) it has welcomed and there have been many declarations of satisfaction. The reform provides for important changes to Legislative Decree No. 165 of 2001 (the single text of the public service), such as the establishment of unified and coordinated management roles, combined with homogeneous access requirements and similar recruitment procedures, based on the principle of merit, updating and continuing training and characterised by full mobility between roles, or the establishment of the database in which the curriculum vitae is included. We know that the management is all in a local authority, so we must reward the good and remove the bureaucrats that create problems. It is therefore asked to know whether the concrete impacts of public management reform are already known in the various sections of the public administration (both at national, regional and local level) and whether objective data can already be assessed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u66	LO MORO (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to Mrs Ministro, with whom we are accustomed to discussing public administration in the Commission, a specific problem relating to Article 4 of the legislative decree, and in particular to the Committee on Public Management. Some have already referred to the missing evaluation system, but we know that delegation has not been brought to the proper consequences in all respects. So, that's not what I'm alluding to. I would like to speak specifically of that committee to say that, when reforms are made, there are those who bet (we are here to bet that reforms go ahead and that they succeed), but one condition is that they are properly managed. This committee - we have said this in the Commission and the Minister knows this - seems to us to be poorly structured, especially because the members of law seem exuberant with respect to the overall composition (five out of seven). I would like to understand whether the Minister has also made a proper reflection on the reports she has received and whether she does not believe that, alongside the autonomy that will certainly be guaranteed, despite this committee being placed in the Department of the Public Service, the competence and the ability to judge must also be strengthened by appointments that, in our opinion, should pass by the parliamentary committees, with a greater capacity for impact of the same (probably also with a reinforced majority). Madam Minister, I take advantage of your presence to say that we would also like, as written in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to ensure gender equality. I say this with the satisfaction of registering today in the Chamber the presence of a Minister, a President of the Senate, a Secretary of Assembly senator as well as of the undersigned, Leader of the majority in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, together with the colleague of the major Opposition Group. We are all women involved in this area; if we learn to comply with this criterion whenever we have the chance, we may come to the objective. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, let's hope so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u69	PERRONE (CoR). Minister, with the draft legislative decree governing public management, pursuant to Article 11 of Law No 124 of 7 August 2015, the reform of public management is introduced. This reform does not seem to guarantee, even according to the most authoritative commentators, the good performance, efficiency and transparency of public administration, but, on the contrary, it upsets fundamental principles, enshrined in the Constitution and which have always been strongly reaffirmed by jurisprudence. In particular, the reform frustrates the effects of the decision of the Constitutional Court, No 37 of 2015 and violates the fundamental principles of democracy (equality, impartiality, equal treatment and good administration), on which our Constitution is founded. In particular, an example among the many that could be made, the scheme of reform of the public leadership, consolidating the powers of the administrations with the attribution to the same of wide powers to carry out the assignments, clearly violates Article 97, paragraph 4 of the Constitution, according to which the career of manager is accessed only by competition. Therefore, it wonders how the Government intends to comply with the 2015 Constitutional Court judgment no. 37. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Madia, Minister for Simplification and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u70	Madam President, in August we presented a draft legislative decree for the reorganisation of public management, in implementation of Law No 124 of 2015. This legislative decree aims to establish the unique roles of the management and thus to overcome the executive's membership in its administration. Why this need for greater mobility and fungibility of managers and the conferral of tasks between administrations and also between institutional levels? I think - I am not the only one who believes this - that a chronic evil of the administration is today the fact that every single administration works as if it were alone, within a fence, with the consequence that the administrations work in watertight compartments and speak little. All this, in the end, creates damage to the service that reaches the citizens. For this reason, I believe it is important to be able to achieve greater interchange between the managers of the administrations, enhancing the experience of managers of territorial authorities in the central administrations and, vice versa, those of managers who have also carried out responsibilities in the central administrations in the territorial authorities. Moreover, even in other countries, where there is good public leadership, it can be verified that the tasks of greater responsibility are usually covered by those who have already held positions in different administrations and not in a single administration. After illustrating in a synthetic way what is the objective of this decree, I want to reject to the sender the criticism that has been made by several interventions, by Senator Pelino and also by other senators, regarding the discretion that the decree would allow in the conferral of tasks. I think that in the text presented and approved in advance by the Government in the Council of Ministers there is not only a repeated separation, but also a reinforced separation between politics and administration, first of all because we continue - as the Constitution provides - to be leaders of the Republic through recruitment, which takes place through public competition. The second reason why I speak not only of "rebated" but also of "rebated" the separation between politics and administration comes from the comparison with the situation in current legislation: today those who have a political position can confer an assignment, for example of the general direction of a Ministry, to anyone who has the qualifications and responds to a question. With the reform that we propose, those who have political responsibility will be able to choose only in a group of five executives, who are selected by an independent, autonomous, guarantee committee, which chooses those five, assessing how the previous positions have been carried out and thus linking more the conferral of tasks not to the political discretion, but to an objective evaluation of the competences of those executives. Moreover, we cannot even speak of precariousness, because with this decree we do not introduce the rules that today concern the dismissal of private managers, we do not equal the dismissal of public managers to that of private managers. From public managers you can be fired for disciplinary reasons, as already happens today, or, as provided in our decree, for reasons related to a negative assessment that involve the withdrawal of the manager from office and after two years in which the executive revoked has not achieved any other assignment. The point is not precariousness but is - and this is the innovation of the decree - the true contestability of the tasks, that is the fact that also the positions of responsibility and of greater prestige are contestable, and therefore that the career of the executives can be a mobile career, precisely because more tied to the objective assessments had in the various positions held. I am therefore referring to the intervention of Senator Lo Moro: it is clear that it will be very important, in the single text on public employment, in which there is a criterion of delegation on evaluation, to introduce legislative changes in harmony with the text that we will finally approve, in November, in the Council of Ministers, precisely to ensure that there is legislation on evaluation that accompanies the effort of innovation that we make in this decree of reorganization of the public leadership. I take the opportunity to speak with Senator Lo Moro not only on the specific point of the evaluation, but also on other points that we discussed in the Commission, from the composition of the committee, which of course must be a guarantee - I agree: it may be important that those who do not have a legal position move from the scrutiny of a qualified majority in the relevant Commissions - even to ensure, through the introduction of specific rules, gender equality in the assignment of posts. These are all issues discussed in the Commission, which, moreover, are reflected in the opinion voted by the 1st Commission and which we will treasure for the final approval of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u71	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u74	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, we are of the idea that it was not from here that we had to start to reorganize the public administration and we do not believe in this reform of the public leadership, also because we have seen that, when it comes to leadership, President Renzi prefers friends to those who may have different resumes. I quote the Carrai case, which wanted to put in charge of services above AISI and AISE, or the Calenda case, placed at the top of the diplomatic career, although coming from completely different sectors. We think it was more important to talk about standard costs and requirements, because when we give all citizens equal services and equal opportunities, bad administrations, good people or bad administrators emerge. You make transfers in the Regions: if in one Region a service works with the same qualities and the same transfers and in the other it does not work, it will be the voters who will give a judgment. We have seen the cost of parametric health care vary between one and seven times in certain basic health care facilities. It is clear that there is everything behind such situations: maladministration, corruption, misrepresentation, administrative inability and many other dysfunctions. In our opinion, we had to start here.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u77	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, we believe that the reform of public management will generate an increase in the burden to cover salaries because there will be a upward leveling of the salaries of managers without corresponding to an improvement in performance. The executives of the current two groups will earn more than before because the single roles will lead, as a result of the rights acquired by each executive, to a uniformity upwards of the existing salaries, being not hypothesized their decrease, without having a better organization and an improvement of the services for the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u80	PUGLIA (M5S). Mrs. Minister, there is an incontrovertible fact and, that is, that the reform of public leadership is in perfect adherence with a deformer spirit of our Constitutional Charter. In fact, it conceals the plan of transformation of the form of parliamentary government towards an autocratic presidentialism, to which it is obviously functional a ruling class enslaved to politics. Minister, a mechanism such as that devised by his decree is likely to have a great expansive force. In fact, once you have appointed people of trust in key positions - I am thinking, for example, of the management of the staff - they will in turn be able to do the same with the lower levels, not management, promoting or placing in the important posts the employees of the same political orientation; all in absolute contrast with the inspiring principles of our republican Constitution, which enhances the impartiality and independence of public administration as indissoluble principles of democracy and the ideals it originated. The famous guarantee committee will be of no benefit, not least because of seven six members are appointed directly or indirectly by the Government. So, there's total government power.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u83	URAS (Mixed). Minister, we take note of your reply. Public management has a very important task. It is not enough just to determine how it is selected; it must be properly motivated to apply it in the acceleration of procedures and in the efficiency of public administration, also in order to allow rapid responses to the needs of the community and, above all, of the most suffering one. Public management should be monitored systematically. The selection method must also be systematically monitored to see if we have achieved the objectives. Every arrangement, in fact, that is born good on paper must then be tested on the field, and not always the results are identical.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u86	LO MORO (PD). Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, of course I am satisfied and it could only be so because we are living this reform together in the Commission (the Minister is very often present personally). However, it seemed right to draw attention to the management phase. What scares the outside world, especially in the face of a highly innovative reform, is precisely this phase. Knowing that there is a government, but also a Parliament, which is attentive to this stage seems appropriate to me and I wanted to reiterate that here.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u89	PERRONE (CoR). Minister, I would like to reiterate that we have not yet seen certain resources on the budget law, as you have indicated. I hope that this will come true, so that we can make up for all that is needed within the leadership.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u90	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank the Minister for simplification and public administration for his helpfulness and all the interrogators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u91	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-727.ana.u92	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 22 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.55 p.m.
