ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u6	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I have repeatedly asked the President of the Senate, both in the Commission and in this House, to be able to obtain the memory that the Government has presented to the Constitutional Court in the matter of adoptions, stepchild adoptions. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Since I have been formally asking for it for ten days, I would like to know from the Presidency whether he has asked the Government for this act, so that the Senate will also become aware of it and, in the course of its work in the Justice Commission, where the relevant matters are being examined, the senators can continue their work, knowing what the Republic, the 24 Hours Sun and the various press bodies have already published but which the senators, formally, have not yet been able to know.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u7	Senator Giovanardi, as you have already been told by the Presidency, the relationship between the Senate and the Constitutional Court is governed by Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. This is a relationship in which the Senate is part three. Therefore, if the Government considers it appropriate, it can give the answers it considers appropriate here, but has not yet given. In fact, there is no compelling role for the Senate, Senator Giovanardi. Therefore, we take note of your observation, but the rules set out in this way. [[Repented comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). I mean, are you asking the government or not?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1738, 548, 630, 1056, 1202, 1292 and 1798, in the text proposed by the Commission. The rapporteur, Senator Cucca, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u9	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, a long-awaited measure has come to the House today because the law of delegation that we are preparing to examine is intended to implement the organic reform of the honorary judiciary, already provided for in Article 245 of Legislative Decree No 51 of 9 February 1998, with subsequent amendments and additions, which stipulated that the provisions of the judicial order that allow the use of honorary judges and honorary vice prosecutors should apply until the overall reorganization of the role and functions of the honorary judiciary, and in any case no later than 31 May 2016. This deadline was determined as a result of the changes made by Article 1, paragraph 613, of the 2016 Stability Act. It is also recalled that the five-year period originally provided for in Article 245 of Legislative Decree No 51 of 1998 - which expired from the date on which the provisions of that Decree became effective - expired on 2 June 2004; this initial deadline was subsequently extended until the legislative intervention of extension in the Stability Act 2016. Article 1 of the draft law identifies the content of the delegation aimed at the introduction of measures necessary for a more rational management of the staff of the honorary judiciary through the establishment of a single statute applicable to the peace judges, the honorary judges of the court and the Deputy Honorary Prosecutors. The implementing legislative decrees will also have to provide for uniform rules on the methods of access, duration and forfeiture of office, on internship, withdrawal and dispensation from service, disciplinary responsibility, on the criteria of liquidation of the allowance and on vocational training. Theme this very sensitive and for which you have offered extremely interesting solutions. Finally, it is possible to extend, in the civil sector, the jurisdiction of the Court of Peace's office in matters and value and to extend cases of decision according to fairness. The Commission intervened on Article 1 by reducing from two years to one the time limit for the exercise of the delegation, then limiting to the cases of value not exceeding 2,500 euros the possibility of extension of the cases in which the judge of peace can decide according to equity and, finally, providing - using as a model the forecast referred to in Article 10 of Legislative Decree No 25 of 2006 - an autonomous section of the judicial council - new introduced by this rule - with the participation of elective honorary magistrates, competent for the measures in the matter of honorary judiciary, without prejudice to the powers of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Article 2 sets out guiding principles and criteria for each of the cases contained in Article 1. It is expected that the current honorary judges of the court will also be included in the office of the judge of peace, overcoming the distinctions - another interesting novelty - between the figures of the honorary judges of the court (GOT) and the judges of peace - which would merge into the only figure of the honorary judges of peace - and giving the Minister of Justice the determination of their overall organic endowment. It is also expected that a similar operation will be carried out for the honorary requisitioning judiciary, the so-called Deputy Honorary Prosecutors (VPO), inserted in a joint called "Office of the Deputy Honorary Prosecutors" within the Office of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic at the ordinary court. In addition to the requirements and methods of access, preferential titles for the appointment of an honorary magistrate, the award of the competence to issue the competition notice for titles and the provision on the freeness of the internship preparatory to the appointment are established. In addition, it is expected that the role and functions of the honorary judges and vice prosecutors will be re-established in the framework of organizational structures established at the court and the prosecutor of the Republic at the court (corresponding to the so-called "trial office") in order to assist the professional judges in the performance of their duties and with the possibility of being delegated to the adoption of decisions characterized by less complexity. It is expected that the office of honorary judge of peace will last four years and that the maximum term of office - following confirmations - will not be more than twelve years altogether, regardless of the type of honorary judicial duties carried out, while the reduction of the age to sixty-five years for retirement (with the possibility of raising it to sixty-eight years only for the honorary magistrates already in service). Honorary magistrates are required to comply with the duties laid down for professional magistrates and extends to all the honorary judiciary both the rules on the forfeiture provided for the judges of peace and the rules on abstention for auxiliary judges of court of appeal. In the matter of compensation, for the performance of the duties inherent in the office of the trial, the payment to the honorary magistrates of allowances of lower amount than those provided for in the exercise of judicial functions, then being arranged, in general, that the organic endowment of the honorary magistrates, the tasks and activities assigned to them, the objectives established by the President of the court and the prosecutor of the Republic and the criteria for the liquidation of the allowances are established in order to ensure the compatibility of the honorary office with the performance of other work activities. I would like to make it clear that I have also tabled an amendment in this regard, which I shall be discussing later. In the course of its examination, the Commission focused its attention on Article 2 and made several amendments to it. It has been stated that all powers relating to the honorary judiciary are assigned to the autonomous section of the Judicial Council. It has been defined with greater detail the provision of delegation relating to the requirements for appointment, among other things by making it clear that among the above requirements it is obvious that having obtained a degree in jurisprudence following a university course of not less than four years, as well as introducing principles and guidelines ad hoc both as regards the express indication of age limits (from a minimum of twenty-seven to a maximum of sixty years), and as regards the obstacle to convictions for non-controversial crimes or to imprisonment for infringements, as well as having been subjected to preventive or safety measures, save in any case the effects of rehabilitation. The Commission has also paid particular attention to the rewording of the forecast contained in point (b) of paragraph 5 of Article 2. In its original wording, this article delegated the Government to provide for cases in which the President of the Court is allowed to apply the honorary judge of peace as a member of the civil and criminal tribunal, and also to provide for cases in which the honorary judge of peace may be applied for the treatment of individual civil and criminal proceedings within the jurisdiction of the ordinary court. The Commission considered that the first of the aforementioned delegation forecasts was compatible with the provisions of Article 106 of the Constitution, which states that the law on the judicial order can allow the appointment, even elective, of honorary magistrates for all the functions assigned to individual judges - as this constitutional provision, as specified by the Constitutional Court in judgments No 99 of 1964 and No 103 of 1998, requires that the honorary magistrates may be admitted to the exercise of judicial functions only in a monocratic judicial office. Mr President, in view of the complexity of the matter, I will ask for permission to submit the written text of my report, or at least of the first part, for it to be published in the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. CUCCA, rapporteur. I would therefore like to focus on a number of issues which I am interested in and which are brought to the attention of this House. With regard to the explanation of the content of the measure, I would therefore refer to the legislative text, whereas it seems to me necessary to point out that, after approval in the Commission, some coordination changes have been made, on the basis of the mandate given by the Commission to the rapporteur, simply to clarify the scope of the transitional legislation, from a time point of view, in order to eliminate also some minor terminology differences in the provisions on incompatibility. As a result of the debate in the Commission and the mandate given, I have drawn up a number of amendments which, in fact, incorporate the content of the tight debate in the Commission, whose work was concluded with the agreement that certain amendments would be made in this House. That is why I have tabled four amendments, which will have to be put to the attention of the House and, if necessary, can also be revised. The first concerns the provision for the recognition of a preferential title for the appointment of an honorary magistrate, for those who have successfully completed the internship at the judicial offices. In this way the intention, which is one of the purposes of this law, is pursued to improve the qualification of those who access to the performance of honorary judicial functions. The second amendment concerns the general forecast and relates to the adjustment of the economic aspect of the relationship and, in accordance with the spirit of the reform, tends to eliminate the unequal treatment between the various figures of honorary magistrates and, in particular, between those of peace judges on the one hand and Honorary Deputy Prosecutors (VPO) and Honorary Judges (GOT), on the other hand. The third amendment is perhaps the most innovative one, because it provides for the transition from the system of the three four-year-olds to four-year-olds, with the assignment in the last four years to the office for the trial, except for the specific requirements expressed by the CSM, which instead determine the destination of those honorary judges also to the judicial functions. The same treatment is provided for those who, at the end of the third four years, have reached 65 years of age, allowing them to be confirmed for a period that allows the maximum age limit to be reached. The fourth amendment is also entirely innovative and provides for the possibility of applying the judges of peace in other offices, in view of the essential and prevailing needs of the offices of destination, according to criteria identified by the MSC. Finally, I would like to stress very much the importance of this measure, which once again constitutes the fulfilment of a commitment made by the Government and in particular by Minister Orlando, who, since his establishment, had stated the need, moreover unanimously warned, to reorder the matter, with the introduction of an organic system that finally regulates the whole issue of the honorary judiciary in the various groups. While it is true that the judiciary is accessed by competition, as provided for in Article 106 of the Constitution, it is equally true that the same rule provides for the possibility of appointing the honorary judge. However, I believe that what has happened in recent years, with the extensions I mentioned at the beginning of my report, does not correspond to the will of the constituent legislator. It has happened that, for various reasons, the judicial system in the courts has come to be governed essentially by the honorary judge, who, among other things - it is important to emphasize - at least for the time being, until the organic plant is reformulated, are to a far lesser extent than the demand of the staff, according to the data provided by the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I merely take the example of the judges of peace, for whom only 1.509 were covered by 3,420 staff. Evidently it has come to create a discrasia, a pathology that will have to be addressed and finally resolved by the measure under consideration; I repeat, a pathology that has produced an infinite series of extensions, with the honorary judges who have been extended in their duties now for an infinite time: it is thought that some judge has been carrying out his duties for twenty-four years now. Evidently, this disease is due to the system, to the various successive governments that have not been able to deal with the matter. Today we finally get to the result thanks to the competition of all the political forces that feel the need to reorder the matter. In this respect, I should like to thank all the political forces present in the Commission, officials and then President Nitto Palma who, in a very effective way, has offered his cooperation in order to arrive at this text, which I believe is shared by a large part of the political forces, except for some adjustments which, however, may possibly be assessed here. I therefore hope that we will proceed as soon as possible with the adoption of the measure, because there really is a need for a reordering of the matter, in order to allow the new system to go into order. Above all, it is also a question of giving security - necessary for those who perform such a high and essential function in our system, such as that of judicial functions - to all those who in recent years have always lived with the nightmare of precariousness and with the fear that the various extensions that have followed were not granted and that therefore have not worked with the necessary serenity. I would like to reiterate my thanks to all my colleagues in the Commission and wish to conclude the procedure as soon as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u11	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, on 13 January 2015, the Government presented the draft delegation law No. 1738, which delegates to the Government for the organic reform of the honorary judiciary and other provisions on the judges of peace. This draft law originates from Article 245 of Legislative Decree No. 51 of 19 February 1998, which lays down the provisions of the judicial order which allow the use of honorary judges and honorary deputy prosecutors. They apply until a global reorganization of the role and duties in the honorary judiciary is realized and certainly not later than the date of December 31, 2009, a term which is clearly and faultfully ignored by the Government. Moreover, the bill of delegation arrives in the Senate Chamber at first reading more than a year after its presentation. The main features of the draft delegation law are as follows. A new figure of the honorary judge will be established, who will be called the honorary judge of peace, who will unite the figures of the judge of peace with that of the honorary judges of the court. The new figure will join the office of the judge of peace. The term of office of the honorary judges of peace shall be, on the basis of age, three or four years. Secondly, the new honorary judges of peace may be placed in the office of the trial at the ordinary courts. Thirdly, the remuneration will be regulated by drawing up a homogeneous framework and differentiating them according to whether it is the exercise of judicial functions or of support to the professional magistrate's activity. Economic incentive systems can be imagined based on the degree of achievement of predetermined objectives. Fourthly, the honorary judges may be transferred to another judicial office, which has the same type, for the organizational needs of the court. Fifth, new criteria will be provided for the training and retraining of the honorary judiciary, with an initial period of internship for the appointment of an honorary magistrate to be held by a professional magistrate. The training phase of the honorary magistrates will have a duration for the entire assignment on a decentralised basis and according to a unified module identified by the High School of the judiciary. In addition, in order to guarantee the highest professionalism of the honorary magistrate, for the first four years he will carry out exclusively his activity within the office for the trial. Sixthly, the compensation will be revised. Seventhly, the assignment will be given for four years. You can obtain confirmation of the assignment only after a positive outcome of the suitability assessment, and for a further two times up to a total of twelve years. This overall system, as a whole acceptable, arrives in our classrooms with serious delay, not only because the overall reorganization, as I said before, was expected by and no later than 2009, but also because, with a provisional arrangement, the honorary judiciary did not have the opportunity to develop fully and forcefully, as it did in other countries of Europe. In fact, the number of honorary judges throughout Europe is always higher (often much higher) than the number of judges touted. In Germany, for example, for about 19,000 toned judges there are almost 100,000 honorary judges; 24,000 honorary judges and 7,000 professional judges operate in France. In Italy, however, the report is reversed, and the judges togati are about double the honorary ones: every 5 honorary judges there are 10 professionals. It is therefore time for this measure to come to Parliament' s attention, and I very much hope that it will be completed as soon as possible. And I also hope that a number of errors and imperfections in the text (for example, the article on voluntary contributions as the only possibility of social security cover for honorary judges) can be corrected by the amendments in this House, as has already been done during the Commission's work, when several amendments by Forza Italia were accepted. In conclusion, in the light of what has been said, however, I would like to express a favourable opinion and have positive hopes for the future. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u13	Mr President, we come to this appointment for the reform of the honorary judiciary after a long itinerary in the Commission, a cross-action between draft legislation of parliamentary initiative, draft law proposed by the Government and a long series of reports and hearings in the Commission of the interested parties, honorary judges, honorary vice prosecutors and judge of peace. We come up with a draft delegation law that defines criteria and principles that we have tried to articulate in the most detailed way possible to clearly define the framework within which the Government will have to move to put its hand on a very complicated matter that takes into account different needs. The first principle, of course, is that of justice, the Italian one, which needs a series of rationalization measures for its operation. Today, in fact, one of the elements that least guarantee social justice and effective justice in this country is precisely the bad functioning of the judicial system, due to its cumbersomeness and to some structural issues that make ours one of the countries in which it is most difficult, both in criminal and civil matters, to succeed in reaching a judgment in certain times. We know what this means, not only in terms of harming the rights of people directly engaged in different ways in a judicial process, but also in terms of harming a general right that, for example, keeps away from our country important economic investments precisely because of the difficulty of being able to rely on the judicial system and therefore on a system of guarantees, rights, rules and respect for the regulations really effective and efficient. The reform of the honorary judiciary represents only one aspect of the work that this Government and this parliamentary majority have been carrying out for a long time. There are already a number of actions planned by the Justice Commission and others will come to the Commission and the House to define a more general reform of the proceedings, and also of the same process. Here we are talking about an important aspect, which is how we manage support for the ordinary work of the judiciary that we decide to entrust to the honorary judiciary. It is clear that up to now there has been a gap between the formal definition of these figures and the way in which they were actually used, starting from the deficiency of the system. In fact, the difficulty of carrying out proceedings quickly through recourse to the ordinary judiciary has developed a use of the honorary judiciary and the abnormal peace judges in relation to the objectives and functions assigned to them. On this too, we try to make clear from a point that I think is acceptable: to avoid that contradiction that has been created over time between magistrates who access the ranks of the judiciary by ordinary competition and a sort of alternate judiciary, which goes to carry out tasks of support for the ordinary judiciary when the ordinary judiciary fails. This bill of delegation therefore aims to identify an autonomous space, a defined space for the honorary judiciary. Therefore, it is to be welcomed, in my opinion, that simplification that reduces to two the figures of the judges: on the one hand, the honorary judge of peace, placed in the office of the judge of peace, but which can then be addressed by the president of the court to the office of the trial, which represents one of the most significant innovations compared to the more general reform of the justice that Minister Orlando is trying, one piece at a time, to put into order and, on the other, the figure of the honorary prosecutor framed within the prosecutor. It is also a good thing that it is more clearly defined that these figures are actually honorary and that, therefore, they perform the function not as a priority job or as a predominant activity within their professional function, but as an additional activity. From here, the definition of a time of three - in some cases four - four years for possible confirmation of the assignment after verification, since the standard duration of use of a professional as an honorary magistrate is equal to four years. It is also important to have clearly defined competences. I would like to stress specifically that it has been decided to keep out of the duties of the Honorary Judge of Peace the treatment of proceedings in matters of employment relations, pensions and compulsory assistance, which remain in the function of the ordinary magistrate for their particular delicacy. Among the amendments tabled, I would like to highlight two of them which are particularly important. Amendment 2,320 states that the honorary magistrates in service may be confirmed in office not for three, but for four four-year term of office. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one very important issue that this measure must deal with very, very sensitively. We are going to redefine a new and lighter figure also compared to the professional investment of the individual, because it is, precisely, a function carried out only for a part of the life and additional to the main activity exercised. We cannot ignore the fact that today, for the needs of the system, we have asked many people to perform the function of judge of peace or honorary judge, in fact, as a predominant activity for very long periods of their lives. It is therefore clear that, when we lighten up (let me use this word in the sense that I explained it better before) this figure, we must consider the professional and human investment that every judge of peace and honorary magistrate has done in the years in which he has performed this very delicate function. For this reason, with reference to the theme of the transitional regime, the extension to four years of the possibility of reconfirming the current judges and judges of peace, also moving a little later the time of the beginning of the term, i.e. from the entry into force of the legislative decree to the entry into force of the last of the legislative decrees implementing the delegation contained in the provision. I would remind you that this amendment was made by the Justice Commission. The other important amendment that I would like to focus on contains a different articulation of the allowance, differentiating the remuneration attributed to the honorary judiciary into a fixed part and a variable part. This is probably a way of making the most of a figure which, as already happens today with the judges of peace, will be attributed a series of functions and affairs not clearly defined, but variable from the numerical point of view and, therefore, of the commitment over time. I hope that later we will be able to express our opinions on the implementing decrees of this delegation, verifying and realizing how the plant that we have built today can actually represent a regime transition from the situation before the new situation that we are going to outline and above all that the operational application of the reform that we are about to launch can represent an important part in the simplification of the work of the judicial offices, which our country needs so much. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u15	Mr President, the draft delegated act under consideration, in the text amended by the Commission, is intended to bring about a comprehensive and comprehensive reform of the honorary judiciary, considering that the current rules are no longer adequate, which are now different in terms of judges of peace, honorary judges of courts and honorary deputy prosecutors. To this end, the aim is to establish a common statute for the honorary judiciary, which applies equally to the judges of peace, to the honorary judges of the court and to the deputy prosecutors themselves. This was the sense of several bills presented since the beginning of the legislature, because the theme is not new, but is the subject of discussion for several years. In this regard, I would like to highlight the indispensable nature of the contribution that the honorary judiciary offers every day in the administration of justice, especially proximity, by the quality and quantity of the procedures defined. Nor is it foreseeable that the situation can change in concrete terms, given the notoriety of staff of ordinary judiciary, destined in the short term to worsen, one way as a result of the shortening of his career, with the consequent early retirements, and, for the other, of the delays encountered in the indication of the competitive procedures. So what can be said is that we have to deal with a situation that cannot remain insecure, as has happened in recent years, with a series of extensions and small adjustments. Those who have had longer parliamentary experiences may recall perhaps better than me, as every time, before a law of stability, they have always tried to make small adjustments with regard to the role, the duration of this role and therefore the functions of the honorary judiciary within the wider functioning of the justice machine. I believe that thinking that I can do without this contribution, not only in the short but also in the medium term, is something impossible, because - as I said before - the delay in the competitive procedures of the ordinary judiciary (the objective number is what it is) does not allow us to think of a system organized differently. There are also known unresolved issues for some time, which obviously do not concern the only honorary judiciary, but the operation of the entire machine of justice in Italy; I think, for example, of the staff of the Chancellors. For a few months, a quasi-military movement of Province staff or other roles of public administration to the courts and judicial offices has been under way. This is also a short-term solution, because we see that public employees who have not had any vocational training or, when they have had it, have been transferred from office to office have been limited enough, so they certainly cannot make a qualitative leap from the point of view of the administrative functioning of justice. The same could be said of the resources available to courts and judicial offices in general and which are always lacking. The telematic civil process has been implemented, but not all offices have been equipped with a system that functions daily. How many times do we read of lawyers who cannot file the documents through the telematic civil trial, but then they have to go to the Registry, looking together with the chancellor, we could say from sorcerer apprentices, one but minimal solution. Then there is the well-known question of locations: on this point too there have been changes regarding ownership of real estate and rental contracts. Between the municipalities and the Ministry there has been a passage of ownership, but also in this case very often the machine of justice is allocated in unsatisfactory locations, with a whole series of problems that daily lawyers, judges and staff of chancellor are forced to face. This is therefore also an opportunity to think, with regard to the functioning of the honorary judiciary, in particular that of the judges of peace, that a screening should be made to assess what good practices have been carried out and to try to export them or imitate them in all the districts and surroundings of our country. There is also another objective, that of safeguarding as much as possible the local offices and the various offices of the judges of peace, because in the last thirty years what was the justice of proximity, at the time articulated in the old and glorious priests, has failed. There is no longer that proximity of the judicial offices, of the judge to the citizen, and although this has led to a saving and an optimization of the machine of justice from the economic point of view, it has removed the citizen from the judicial garrison and this, in my opinion, in terms of defense of the values of legality and above all diffusion of the culture of legality (so in the objective of prevention rather than repression) is a serious fact compared to which we must confront. The decisive role played by the honorary judiciary, therefore, attaches particular importance to this bill, all the more in view of the fact that the sector has often been regulated with various interventions not always coordinated between them and, sometimes, not functional - as I said before - compared to the need to respond to the crisis of the justice service, especially in terms of the reasonable duration of the processes. Precisely because of these considerations, we Conservatives and Reformists have committed ourselves, with our amending proposals, to making this measure a more effective instrument for responding to the above-mentioned fundamental demands. I refer, merely for example, to those parts of the delegation which include the extension of the powers of the honorary judiciary by referring to the vague notion of "minor complexity" referring to the investigative and decision-making activities contained in paragraph 15 of Article 2, in points (b), (c) and (f) in relation, respectively, to the cases of voluntary jurisdiction in matters of succession and communion, to the cases in matters of real rights and communion and to the other proceedings of voluntary jurisdiction. The notion of less complexity is very vague and creates great application problems. These criteria would end with the attribution to the plaintiff, then to the lawyer of those who start the case, the task, for the very unlikely truth, to carry out a preliminary examination on the complexity of the investigation and/or decision-making of the dispute; activity that in reality requires, in my opinion, some limitation, at least ratione values. This is in order to avoid the risk of shifting the moment of determination of jurisdiction from the introductory act to a moment following the establishment of the adversarial, thus returning to the professional court the decision as to whether or not the jurisdiction of the court of peace exists. A picture emerges for which the case begins, but it is not known whether to continue and before which judge and whether the lawyer rightly framed this concept of less complexity. Therefore, our amendments are aimed precisely at solving this problem. I will conclude by pointing out a further amendment proposal from my Group which, in full and effective recognition of the membership of the judicial order of the honorary magistrates, allows them to remain in service in the same manner as the ordinary judiciary; this also in order to enhance the wealth of experience gained so far and to give a fair recognition to those who in recent years have contributed to the full functioning of their offices making a real choice of life. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft own-initiative law of the Government, together with several other draft laws presented by individual senators (among them, one also signed by me, as well as by my colleagues Caliendo and others), has been widely discussed in the Commission and has therefore had a wide and widespread debate, with a deepening I would say quite unusual in the work of this Senate. I must acknowledge Senator Cucca and, since, as the Rules of Procedure provide, I cannot address him directly, I would ask you, Mr President, to give him appreciation for the willingness to receive suggestions, which are often indispensable. 13 amendments were accepted by Senator Caliendo and myself. I would point out that, in the list of requirements for taking up the duties of honorary judge, the Government had escaped the requirement to hold a degree in law. I see the Undersecretary for Justice smiling, but - alas - that is unfortunately the case. Of course, also on this amendment, among others, Senator Cucca - wisely I must say - expressed a favourable opinion and so the Government; it is, therefore, the requirement of possession of the degree in jurisprudence. The measure comes here on the basis of a requirement, which is dictated by the fact that Article 245 of Legislative Decree No 51 of 19 February 1998, as amended by Article 1 of the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 228, provided that the provisions of the judicial order that allow the use of the honorary judges of the court and of the honorary vice prosecutors apply until the overall reorganization of the role and functions of the honorary judiciary and in any case no later than 31 December 2013. As of December 31, 2013, the deadline set in a law order, had not yet been implemented this requirement to rearrange the figures and the role of judges substitute honorary prosecutors and honorary court magistrates. Of course, with wisdom and with a sense of opportunity and balance, we have not missed the opportunity to treat also the figure, the role and the functions of the judge of peace. The figure of the judge of peace in recent years has largely borne the burden of justice in our courts. This honorary judiciary has played an important role, which the country must recognise and which this Parliament must recognise. The rule, therefore, arrives here as a delegated rule. The Government will then have to issue the relevant implementing decrees; in the Government's bill it was said within two years, but, given the urgency, an amendment, always signed by my colleague Caliendo, myself and others, reduced this deadline from two to one year. You see, as a whole, it cannot be said that this is not a good rule, but I must point out that, if it has come here today as a more or less acceptable rule, it is thanks - and that is why I have just expressed my appreciation - to Senator Cucca, who has tried in every way to improve the text. However, there are still vulnus, representative of the Government and Senator Cucca; there are also some constitutional concerns. In this connection, I would remind you that the second paragraph of Article 101 of the Constitution reads as follows: The courts are subject only to the law of the Court of Justice. This is, moreover, a principle which, with judgment No 40 of 1964, the Constitutional Court has clearly reaffirmed, namely the requirement that the judge should not receive, except by law, an indication of the rules to be applied to the judgment. The Court, therefore, also intervened, if ever there was a need, to specify that the indications to give a judgment to the judge must be given only and exclusively by law. When, however, we write to Article 2 of this provision, Senator Cucca - I think you should listen to me; I do not know why I have this requirement - that the measures defining the proceedings cannot be delegated by the professional judge, so far we are there. In fact, we have imagined the office of trial with a professional judge and a series of honorary judges who must cooperate and implement provisions, therefore the measures defining the judgment cannot be delegated by the professional judge. However, then we say: "except those specifically identified in view of their simplicity". Well, this final part of the rule, however, allows a derogation from the constitutional principle, even if we talk about simpler procedures, because, according to the constitutional principle, the judge, in deciding the dispute, must have indications only from the law. It is not possible, for the simple question of the matter, to escape the application of this constitutional principle. And I have a problem with the Government: if this honorary judge does not decide in accordance with the provisions given to him by the professional judge, is that sentence nothing? Is it gripable? Where will the suggestion and indication of the professional judge come from? Here you still have time to correct. The judge, even if the questions are simple, cannot decide on the indication of other magistrate, even though togato. This is a central point, in my view, of the matter. There is no precedent in the Republican Constitution on - and I would say earlier - a delegation of judicial functions. The professional judge may not delegate the decision he has taken. He may delegate the function but, at the time he delegated the function, he can no longer intervene, even if the question is merely a matter of dispatch, in determining the judge's conviction in the judgment to be issued. You have corrected, and I thank you for that too, the provision on social security. You said that the honorary judges could have a social security guarantee free of charge to the State. You said they could get social security. This prediction has been exploded, and I also thank Senator Cucca for this. In fact, if a judge wants to sign the policy he does, and it is certainly not the law that gives him this option. Gentlemen, the Government, and its professionalism within the government's technical organization, cannot send such measures to this Parliament, with huge and coarse errors that perhaps the secretaries of my firm would also be able to detect. How do you imagine a judge who doesn't have a law degree? How can one say in a law that there is the possibility, for the professional, to take out an insurance policy? As far as I am concerned, it remains one aspect, which I find not secondary but central. We dedicate jurisdiction to these gentlemen. This is a figure who now plays a central role in the exercise of judicial functions in our country. It is right, therefore, to create a single judge, but the lack of clarity lies precisely in this famous courtroom. The judge who has just been appointed for the first four years must be engaged not in judicial functions but only in a trial office. What is this trial office, and what does this judge do in the trial office? Do you take the card from one desk to take it to another? Is this the function? The judge must have a judicial function; if you think you want to entrust it to him, do it. I would have understood the four-year period if it had been included in an internship, as is foreseen for those who, as soon as they passed the competition in the judiciary, do a so-called internship period alongside a judge and then take up office. That, however, is a stage in which the judge is an hearer and not yet a judge. If you wanted to predict this, in line with what is happening within the honorary judiciary, you could think of a period of internship. But you, from the first moment, entrust him with the figure, the functions and the position in the role of honorary judge without, however, giving him the opportunity to carry out his duties. Those entrusted with the functions that should belong to the chancellors and not to a judicial body. Do you not think that we have taken sufficient advantage of these honorary magistrates so far? Do you not think that our country, our state organization, and in particular the Ministry of Justice, have sufficiently exploited this figure, that it cannot perform functions as a lawyer in a certain area and that it has a number of limitations? It is then necessary to decide whether it is honorary or not. When I was about twenty-five years old, a few years after graduation, at twenty-two years of age, and immediately after passing the examination as legal attorney, I was appointed vice-priest, who at the time was called "conciliator." I was, therefore, acting as a conciliator and it was an honorary function because it was not remunerated. With this legislative initiative we would have had the opportunity to overcome this misunderstanding. Instead we have kept it: we have left this hybrid figure that supports the ordinary judiciary, which solves an innumerable series of proceedings considerably reducing the judicial burden. We have also said in the matter of fairness - we have also tabled an amendment on this point, which also bears my signature, accepted by the Government and the rapporteur Mr Cucca - that the judge can decide disputes of value up to EUR 2,500. I think we could go further. The judgment of equity is of a domestic nature, which was once entrusted to the then figure of the Praetor. We in our country have expressed the most obvious schizophrenia when we decided to concentrate and then to decentralise; to abolish the praetor - which was an extraordinary figure - and to introduce first the unique sections and then the detached sections. In fact, the sole judge of a detached section is nothing more than the former praetor. So we took a crazy, huge ride, going from here to there to change the name from a praetor to a single judge in the courtroom. I hope that certain aspects of this rule can also be corrected in this House. The rapporteur, Mr Cucca, at the time when he accepted 13 amendments to my signature during his work in the Commission, created a major problem for me, the problem of responding with equal willingness with a vote in favour of this bill. I do not want to do, however, what was done yesterday; I intend to leave the door open to see what will happen in this House about the amendments tabled: for the time being, I am calling for a generally favourable vote, on the basis of the considerations I made earlier, but leaving the possibility, following the work of this House, of changing my opinion and of opposing a law that, if any further distortions are adopted, may not be shared by me. [[Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u18	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u19	Mr President, my speech is only intended to keep the record of the remarks. In my opinion it is dangerous - if not dangerous - to give the Government a delegation to regulate the system of recruitment of judges, while referring to honorary justice. The bill on our examination says that the honorary judges will be recruited without competition, with the title of the degree in jurisprudence. Let's make a bit of history: beyond the Deputy Honorary Prosecutors (VPOs), the aggregate Honorary Judges (GOAs) and the Honorary Court Judges, let's think about the standard figure of the Honorary Judge, to whom we refer a bit that of the Judge of Peace. Also the history of the judge of peace, moreover, starts from afar: you will remember, before their institution, the figure of the judge conciliator, who was asked to resolve minor cases, but based above all on the personal experience, maturity and the pose of his figure and of his person. In this case, the conciliatory judge could decide according to common sense and, surely, according to fairness. This aspect was then transferred, although in a more regulated way, to the figure of the judge of peace. So we have to ask ourselves the following question: can we live by being a non-professional judge? My answer is absolutely negative, because a person cannot embark on a career in time, which will last four years. It is true that there is the possibility of an extension for two more four-year-olds, but a person cannot structure his own life, thinking of performing a certain function for only four years, not knowing whether it will be reconfirmed or not. I would also like to point out that those interested in performing the various functions of conciliatory judge, peace judge and other honorary judges were very well-prepared people: they were mainly officials at the end of their careers or at the end of their careers. They were therefore directors or administrative officials, legal experts, lawyers or professors in legal matters. That type of experience will no longer be possible: in fact, in the draft law it is written that they cannot be appointed judges who have completed 60 years or people who, in any case, are in quiescence, or who have completed a professional career. Moreover, in order to be legal, those who wrote the text argue that even people of well-established legal experience cannot be a judge. Indeed, Article 2 states that it cannot exercise the duties of an honorary magistrate who in the previous three years has been a Member, a Member of Parliament, a Regional Councilor, that is, who has been a legislator, who makes the laws; even if good or bad, who does or who applies the laws enters into the matter, knows it. Furthermore, reference is also made to those who held the office of Ombudsman three years earlier. I therefore wonder if we want to establish a solid, capable structure which judges (since we will still have to judge according to fairness), choosing, once we have established the criteria with the law, but with a margin of elasticity, people who have actually gained this experience. In this case this is prevented. Then let's see if there really is the possibility of creating a corpus of parallel experts of the ordinary judiciary. The text also states that the career ends at the age of sixty-five, and here too there is some inconsistency. If a miner, a craftsman, a worker can work up to sixty-seven years (I say they can, but actually now have to work up to sixty-seven years), is it possible that a person who only has to use his experience and the head, that is, the brain, should stop at sixty-five years? That doesn't make sense either. It doesn't have any logic. Perhaps the most critical aspect is the allocation to the Government of the power to determine the remuneration for those who will perform this function. The text only states that the allowance must be lower than that of the person exercising the judicial functions, i.e. that the honorary judge must have a lower salary than that of the judge. Here too, however, we can make assumptions, as the government has a blank card. If the allowance was 70, 80 or 90 percent, it should be concluded that it will be good. However, since the Government only has to ensure that it is lower than the ordinary judges, it could also establish that it is 10% and there is no doubt that, if it were so low, any serious professional would be discouraged from going to be an honorary judge. I do not imagine that an attorney leaves his office to go and be an honorary judge if the allowance is so miserable; let's say that the game is not worth the candle. If the allowance is so low, they will undoubtedly ask to be admitted to this plenteous selection of young people, very young people who have not undertaken any career, who are still waiting to start it, who do not have a structure or study. At this point, however, there will be a lack of everything that is asked of such a person, namely the experience in judging particular cases according to common sense and fairness, and will select a plethora of subjects that humanly cannot have these qualities because he did not have the time to acquire them. If you haven't read it yet, the text gives the government two propagandistic ideas, and it's pure propaganda, because no other stake is fixed. Tomorrow, the government will be able to say that, with very high allowances, it will select a class of experts of extremely high and high quality law and will thus be able to show that it will dispose of significant amounts of backwardness. Then it will sell in terms of public image its ability to dispose of all the arrears of Italian justice. On the other hand, as often happens to the Renzi government, it could be taken from propaganda in the pre-electoral sense, as when 500 euros were awarded to every young person who is eighteen years old, as if it were a prize of greater age. We have not understood the sense of giving only to those who are eighteen years old the prize of 500 euros. But it could be the same logical identification as saying: I keep the allowances very low, the professionals will not be interested, but I will be able to advertise that I have arranged and given employment to a number of young people, who otherwise would not have had other opportunities for work. In any case the government will make propaganda and we do not put any kind of constraint or stake. I say that in this case the delegation is wrong. It is necessary for the laws to make them Parliament and not let the government, fixed two or three pellini laschi, "slalomare" as best it believes and sets reforms according to the timing thinking: if the elections will be next year, perhaps it is better for me to sell the charter of the recruitment of young people than another possible choice. For the record, we have seen a good reform in this House, a pity that it was quickly abandoned: it was the reform presented by the then Minister Castelli that provided for the parallel justice-ordinary justice honorary. According to the above-mentioned reform, the Honorary Judge is first and foremost in time, just like a Member of Parliament, and secondly, his office is an elected office, a real mandate, because the judge, according to this very current logic, is a good judge if he is judged as such by the citizen. Too many times we have seen magistrates geniuses of the law, very good, who have passed the most difficult and difficult competitions, but unable to be balanced, totally unfit to judge people, very experienced in law, but humanly incapable. Such a person with an elective office system would certainly not be selected as an honorary judge. In conclusion, I repeat that it is always dangerous to attribute to the Ministry of Justice, that is to say to a Government, the appointment and confirmation, any extensions and so on in the choice of judges. If we put together the framework that is emerging in this legislature, we notice how the Renzi Government, but in particular Prime Minister Renzi, Secretary of the Democratic Party as well as President of the Council, has already obtained full powers without ever having asked them. In these classrooms of the Roman Parliament the last Premier to ask for full powers was Mussolini, and got them, but it was Parliament that gave them to him. Renzi has never asked Parliament for full powers, but he has obtained them. Renzi wanted an electoral law that would reward his party: the party that wins the elections makes a single-colored government, of the same family, and with the second reform he set aside the Senate that will no longer have direct relations with the government. The family that will win the elections, which will have an absolute majority in the House, which will be represented by a government of the same family, will appoint everything there is to appoint: from the next Presidents of the Republic to the next summits of the high offices of the judiciary (superior council of the judiciary, Cassation, Constitutional Court) and so on. Moreover, he wanted the reform of the radio and television system, according to which that family, that Government, that Chamber, the Minister of Communications and Transport, will appoint the leaders of the public radio and television system, who in turn will appoint all the heads of the news, all the directors of the network of the radio and television system. Who wins the elections - and President Renzi has demanded these laws - with electoral reform, institutional reform and the reform of the radio and television system, takes over the country. We now give full powers a further step, namely that we can also choose a branch of the honorary judiciary. Frankly, this government has been given too much. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u20	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u21	Mr President, this is an important bill, and I would like to explain a few things about it because it seems to be a delegation law that only affects the citizens who are outside these classrooms, but in fact it intervenes on a matter that concerns them very closely. First of all, I would like to stress one aspect of the method: this is a delegation law which the Commission has filled up and the drafting itself of the draft law shows that there has been a great ability of the Commission to intervene on this delegation which has been punctually filled with aspects that have been accepted. And, I have to tell you the truth, we have to give credit to the rapporteur, Mr Cucca, for having followed this process and for having shown that he was keen to draw up, within the Commission, a draft law which took account of a serious problem. In fact, with regard to justice and the honorary judiciary there is an encounter of very varied issues and also of centers of power - we can say this - because however it is a cross of potential conflict between the professional judiciary, the lawyer and the citizens themselves. So it is not an easy subject, and I must say that the Commission has shown in this that it is capable, contrary to what the Government usually presumes of parliamentary committees. The Commission therefore had the merit of demonstrating its skills and professionalism. There are still some aspects that, being clearly a delegated law, will then have to be specifically declined by the Government and that here, although indicated, remain vague. For example, when we see that professionalism has been included among the requirements, I honestly always wonder how professionalism can be defined; on the other hand, everything is regulated in a very detailed way: competences, obligations, compulsory training, requirements and sanctions. Everything is disciplined with great attention. However, I would like to take a step back and talk about the reason why we are faced with the need to regulate the honorary judiciary in an organic way. The main point is that the honorary judiciary in the last twenty years has become a fundamental support for the exercise of justice, for the activity of the courts and even of prosecutors. Now, this is not normal, or rather because we have a discipline that is constitutional and that foresees that the world of the judiciary is organized in a certain way, it is not normal that there is need for twenty years of the presence of subjects who complete the work that the magistrates cannot do. In this regard, I would also like to add another element because the question is not limited to the workload of the magistrates. We can expand a great deal because the problem also concerns the staff and the officials of the chancellories who do not, to date, have the appropriate tools to be able to exercise their function efficiently. In this respect, I am not happy with the figures because you see, Mr. Representative of the Government, it becomes very easy to indicate the percentages. I take the example of the court of my city that is facing the biggest trial for 'ndrangheta that has ever been held in Emilia-Romagna: 146 put to trial for a small town like Reggio Emilia. Now, we are told that organic deficiency is in the norm, even under the norm. But what the government does not do is go and see the quality of the organic deficiency. If the shortage of staff is entirely concentrated on officials, it is clear that the court cannot function, even more so if it has to hold the debate for 146 put to trial. Therefore, more concreteness, attention and even intellectual honesty would be needed to verify in detail the actual situations of possibilities for the functioning of our courts, because otherwise the risk is, as always, to make big talk and then in the end see the citizens wondering why things do not work, so it becomes easy to play the game of blaming one another. Turning to the merits of the bill, there are aspects that disturb me. Firstly, the measure in question does not solve what is clearly a structural problem of organic endowment with regard to both the officials and the staff of the Registry and the magistrates, so much so that the presence of the honorary judiciary is regulated almost as if it were to become - but cannot be - a rule. How is the honorary judiciary organized? I turn to the aspects that interest me the most. Its duration is fixed in three four years: this means that the honorary judge will not be able to exercise the function for more than twelve years altogether, because the Government is inspired by the principle that the honorary judge must not be a professional judge. Those who exercise this function cannot perform it as a profession, having to have another professional activity, such as that of a lawyer or notary. I challenge everyone to imagine how it can be carried out at the same time, in a correct way and also investing in professionalism, the role of judge and that of lawyer. However, I fear that the scrupulousness with which the measure in question states that the Honorary Magistrate can act as a lawyer at least 50 kilometres away from his place of employment is not sufficient. I am sorry, but this does not seem to me to be a valid precondition for ensuring that there will be no interference between the judgment and the advocacy function. This is a risk. In the draft law under consideration there are many instruments of control of the work of the honorary judge, but it is true that, at the end of the day, everything is left to the responsibility of individuals, who will be removed from the conflict of interest for their will and sense of responsibility, or will be controlled by someone who will take the trouble to really do so. Mr Sfafe Secretary, I am sorry, but in Italy this happens sporadically and randomly. This is my first concern, to which a second one is added. Putting me in the place of the honorary magistrate, I have the following question: what do I invest if I know that I will be able to exercise the function for twelve years and that's it? How do I invest in compulsory training and respond to obligations such as those of career magistrates and to the duty towards the people I am in front of me and the structure in which I am included, if I must also provide for my professional study? I say this also from family experience, because my grandfather was an honorary praetor and to carry out this function seriously he did not take care of his professional study. That's a fact. But should it be left to the choice of the individual to sacrifice one or the other function, or do we want to build an army of precarious people that will invest little in the honorary judiciary and everything in its own study activity, especially because, if professionals of young age, the study will have to create it? How do you think that in twelve years they may not develop professional skills even with reference to the activity of lawyer? All this is symptomatic of a real problem. I come to the central point, which reminds me of the law on school (many other aspects of the provision remind me of the world of school). In the measure, where it concerns the identification and regulation of a social security and welfare scheme compatible with the honorary nature of the assignment, it is stated on time: "without charges for public finance". So, let's get to the central point: here again we want to show an efficiency of the system when, in fact, we do not intend to allocate real resources to make the system work. So, gentlemen of the Government and Mrs. Undersecretary, here we need to be clear, because we cannot pretend to be efficient on the skin of others, on the skin of those who will then be dismissed and thrown away like the old shoes, as happens in the school, or on the skin of those who will have to decide whether to ruin the study or to do in an approximate way another profession. So, here we have to decide: either you decide to allocate resources and you decide that justice and school are the two legs of the Republic or you honestly say that there is no lira and that therefore you have to arrange how you can. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u22	She's enlisted to speak Senator Filippin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the law delegates to the House today is one of the key elements in bringing the Italian justice system back to the level of efficiency that our country demands and deserves. For some time now, the honorary judiciary has been waiting for an organic reform, as some colleagues mentioned earlier; just think that Article 245 of Legislative Decree No 51 of 19 February 1998 (later amended and repeatedly amended), allowed the use of the honorary judges of the court (the so-called GOTs) and of the Deputy Honorary Prosecutors (the so-called VPOs) until the overall reorganization of the role and functions of the honorary judiciary, which should have taken place within five years from the decree itself, i.e. by 2003. It wasn't like that. Yet the honorary judiciary, for the practical use that has been made of it in recent years, is central to the organization of justice and its contribution is absolutely indispensable. The need therefore to review the provisions of the judicial order governing the employment of the honorary magistrates is an opportunity for a wider remedy of the role and functions of the honorary judiciary as a whole, which also involves the figure of the judge of peace, taking into account the experience gained by this particular category of honorary magistrates, to whom, over time, an ever wider sphere of jurisdiction has been attributed. But any serious reform - and this should be the intention of this bill - can only start from the examination of the critical issues that have been highlighted in recent years. The honorary nature of the duties requires them to be carried out on an occasional and temporary basis; yet this principle has been systematically violated. It is a well-known fact that the performance of the honorary duties occupies the majority of the honorary magistrates full-time or half-full, in fact becoming a precarious occupation, and that the deadline for the expiry of the statutory appointment has been extended as a matter of urgency. But all this happened because the professional judiciary would not have been able to deal with the heavy burden of litigation without availing itself of the honorary magistrates, who, in the meantime, have gained a competence and professional knowledge that would have been irrational to disperse. How, then, can we reconcile the opposite demands? How can the independence, autonomy and third party of the judiciary be guaranteed, even if it is honorary? The legislative intervention proposed by the draft delegation law n. 1738 aims to implement this objective: to organically reform the honorary judiciary, moving - as we mentioned earlier - along three fundamental guidelines. Firstly, it is necessary to establish the single statute of the honorary judiciary applicable to all: to the peace judges, to the honorary judges of the court, to the Deputy Honorary Prosecutors. Indisputable demands for simplification, therefore, there is a uniform discipline concerning: the methods of access; the duration of the task, necessarily limited in time; the internship, aimed at ensuring the preparation of new judges; disciplinary responsibility; the attribution of functions, essentially with double value, both those supporting the activities of professional magistrates, and those more properly judicial; the constant training throughout the performance of the task; the liquidation of compensations. The second director of this bill is the reorganization of the office of the judge of peace under the coordination of the President of the court (I will return to this point). Finally, the third director is to re-determine the role and functions of the honorary judges and vice prosecutors, giving them also the possibility to carry out tasks further than those provided for by the legislation in force and, in particular, activities of collaboration with the professional magistrate, carried out within the organizational structures constituted at the court, at the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic, called the office of the trial. It is precisely on the proper functioning of the process office that largely passes the bet of the modernisation and efficiency of the overall reform of justice. With the bill of delegation n. 1738, the Government therefore proposes to overcome the current discipline, differently modulated for the peace judges, the honorary judges of the court and the honorary vice prosecutors. The Honorary Judge of the Court and Honorary Deputy Prosecutor are brought together both within the office of the Judge of Peace, of which the Minister of Justice is responsible for establishing the endowment and organic plan. In essence, three different functions are attributed to the honorary judiciary: judge at the trial office; judge at the peace judge's office; judge at the court. Particularly positive must be considered the inclusion of honorary (peace) judges in the office for the trial established at the ordinary court. It constitutes a valuable aid to the professional judge, for the ability which is conferred on the new honorary magistrates to carry out preparatory acts necessary or useful for the performance of the duties or activities delegated by the professional judge, in view of the nature of the interests involved and the simplicity of the questions to be resolved. I hope, unlike Senator Falanga, that this activity will not result in the mere transfer of cards from one table to another. Equally acceptable is the provision according to which such activities are to be carried out in accordance with the directives laid down by the professional court, to which the honorary judge of peace is required to comply in the performance of the delegated tasks. The legislative proposal is fully acceptable because it aims to enrich and implement the provision of Article 50 of Decree-Law No 90 of 2014, converted with amendments by Law No 114 of 2014, which provided for the creation, at the ordinary courts and the court of appeal, of the office of the trial. In this sense, therefore, this legislative proposal should be welcomed as an additional part of the process of modernising the functioning of the judicial system, in line with the experiences of the most efficient foreign systems and with some virtuous practices already experienced in Italian offices, which have demonstrated how organisational models of functional collaboration, through qualified assistance to the activity of the judge, are able to make a significant contribution to the ability to dispose of business. On the other hand, this activity of support and functional collaboration, in addition to contributing to the better and faster definition of the affairs entrusted to the professional magistrate, has the additional function of allowing the honorary magistrate a progressive approach to the exercise of the honorary judicial functions. This ensures a more adequate training of the honorary judiciary, albeit within the framework of the specificity of its function. The proposed text should also be welcomed in that part of which it assigns to the President of the Court the functions of coordinator of the office of the judge of peace. In this role, the President shall be responsible for the management of judicial and administrative staff, the preparation of the tables and the allocation of business. As is well known, the current regulatory framework builds the office of the judge of peace as a functionally and organisationally autonomous entity, entrusted to the management by the coordinating peace judge. This has led, in many cases, to a sort of substantial separation of the honorary office from the professional office of the district, a situation that has not favoured functional paths of homogeneity, coordination and transparency. For this reason it is certainly appropriate to bring the office back to the direct responsibility for organizational and management coordination of the president of the court, to which in the final analysis is assigned the task of responsible for the entire sector of the jurisdiction of first instance in the surrounding area, in order to ensure its consistency and coordination between offices. Coming, then, to one of the most qualifying points of the bill, must consider positively the will to determine more rigorously than in the past (and I have spoken of the reasons why this happened) the duration of the assignment and its temporaryity. The measure in question lays down, in particular, the duration of the appointment, as a regime, in a total of twelve years (i.e. four years as an honorary magistrate at the court of trial and, if confirmed, as considered appropriate, an additional eight years as an honorary magistrate at the court of peace). This choice is entirely acceptable, since it allows the concrete start of the office of the trial, and therefore an increase in the productivity of the professional magistrate and of the justice as a whole and, at the same time, gradual, also in function of progressive training, the entry of the honorary magistrate into the judicial organization, allowing him to exercise the judicial functions once he has spent a reasonable period of accompaniment to the professional judge. The issue of the transitional system remains - and we know this very well - a problem which is not easy to solve, considering that those who have performed the necessary, or rather the indispensable, honorary function must find adequate protection, but that, in relation to their age group, at the end of the transitional period they would not have completed the pension requirements and would obviously not be able to carry out any other work. Thanks to the cooperation of all political forces (it has been recalled that the work in the Commission has been, on the point, absolutely collaborative), the text identifies a progressive solution, taking into account the experience and age of the judges of peace, in this case in function at the time of the issuance of legislative decrees; a function that they can play for further four years, until accompanying them, in some way, to the exit from the judicial system. This does not alter the fact that, on the way in, the new honorary magistrates must have those characteristics, which I mentioned earlier, which underline their independence precisely in view of the transitory nature and the temporary nature of their duties. In the perspective drawn up, therefore, that favours the honorary character of the function, must consider positively the forecast of a fixed remuneration component, albeit graduated according to the functions specifically carried out. It must, in fact, consider that it is necessary for the system of remuneration of the honorary judiciary to be compatible with the law in force. So the judges of peace in our system, as well as throughout Europe, are honorary officials and consequently enjoy economic treatment of a charitable nature, as a result of the absence of a professional service relationship. On the other hand, the choice to ensure participation in the honorary office of both professionals and employees must be welcomed because it is entirely in line with the above-mentioned honorary nature of the functions and confirms the connotation of the function under consideration, in its specific component, which requires the consideration of the judicial activity performed on an honorary basis as an accessory to the main professional or work activity carried out by the person in charge. It is a choice which, correctly, takes into account the constitutional structure of the professional judiciary (which requires, also in the light of the assurance of the status of independence and autonomy of the jurisdiction, access to it by public competition) and therefore requires a coherent solution on the remuneration level and the duration of the task. They are, then, fully in the honorary perspective of the function and must be, therefore, fully shared the forecasts that place the incompatibility of the honorary judge determined by the exercise of the profession of forensics, exclusively at the level of the district of the court. This is a solution that harmonizes with the honorary and temporary nature of the assignment, since it presupposes the identification of a point of balance between the social needs related to the impartiality of the judgment and the insurance to the honorary magistrate of the possibility to exercise and develop, also in view of the cessation of the temporary honorary assignment, the main profession, constituting the main source of income. This is a draft law delegated, as the rapporteur said - which I thank for the professionalism, competence and dedication, together with all the members of the Justice Commission, starting with the then President Palma, who have spent all the time, attention and work on this bill - which we consider to be a fundamental part of that process of modernising our justice system. I therefore hope, precisely because of the work carried out together in the Commission, that this bill will be considered worthy of approval by all the parliamentary forces present in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u25	Mr President, I believe that we must all make an effort to achieve unanimity in the adoption of this bill. Why do I say unanimity? Because we owe it as an attestation of appreciation to the honorary judiciary. The honorary judiciary of our country has guaranteed the possibility to render justice not only for its activity, but because it has allowed the overall system to respond to the demand for justice. I'm not just talking about lately. Look, I've heard before that it's not justice to rely on honorary judges. Probably we do not remember that over 50% of all the civil judicial activity of our country was carried out by the conciliatory judge still in the fifties. The conciliatory judge had no technical attitude; he was the true pater familias, the old praetor of Roman law. We then had the honorary vice-priests who made a huge contribution even at the saddest moment in our country, during the period of terrorism, when some of them were applied to constitute the colleges that were to judge the facts of terrorism. Subsequently, we had a series of rules, already mentioned, concerning the GOTs, the VPOs and the judges of peace. It was therefore necessary to intervene with an organic reform, which gave a dignity, through a single statute of the honorary judiciary. This was the reason why, in the past legislature, I presented the draft law that I have also presented in this legislature. The Monti Government limited itself to two amendments, in particular by reducing the incompatibility for lawyers, which I had planned of district type, to the area of the district. The Democratic Party tabled eight amendments and I have reworded the measure in this parliamentary term taking into account six of those amendments. After a long discussion, in the end, the Government proposed a delegation law. Again, several amendments were accepted from those I had tabled, also signed by my colleague Mr Falanga - as he has just mentioned - and we have come to a comparison which concerns a number of fundamental issues. On incompatibility we maintained the indication of the Monti Government. With regard to the work to be done by the honorary judges, I remain convinced that the GOTs were better off with the solution, which I proposed, of a specific identification of their own activities and not of the ordinary judge's supplement, as is the case today. Such identification would have given certainty and ability to measure that judicial activity and, therefore, cannot have objectives. What are the fundamental steps for which we still have to make an assessment, taking into account the rapporteur's amendments, which in some parts certainly improve the text that came out of the Commission? The first step is, as Senator Filippin recalled, that the first appointed honorary judges will perform their duties only in the office of the trial. On this point we can agree, so much so that I have not retabled the amendments identifying the activities from the outset. We can define the office of the trial as an activity which complements an internship, which was to last at least six months (and I have tabled an amendment to ensure that this duration is at least six months). But once the honorary judge has carried out the office of the trial, it is clear that he is empowered to perform the judicial function, either alone, or in the college, and therefore a proper function, no longer delegated by the judge within the office of the trial. If so, there can be no difference in judicial activity, nor can any objective be assigned to the honorary courts. In this respect, since we cannot table amendments, there is an amendment by the rapporteur that I welcome and suggest that we reword, deleting the reference to the objectives that cannot be assigned. The objective is the activity of the administration, not the jurisdiction. The only possibility, then, is to say that the variable part of the allowance can be attributed in relation to the exceeding of a percentage, which corresponds to the average activity compared to the workloads. If the Supreme Council of the judiciary identifies the assessment of professionalism in view of the workload, and therefore of the activity carried out and the ability to perform its functions - as would be possible - and the magistrate exceeds that threshold, it is clear that he may be entitled to the variable part. However, this same distinction leads us to say that it is not possible to think of a hypothesis of use within the office of the trial for the next eight years, except because of exceptional objective facts and for a limited period of time which may not exceed six months. Of course, if we accept this idea, the rapporteur will also take this into account in the rewriting of the amendment, because if it is said that exceptionally, for reasons of safeguarding the office and of the office of the trial, we are forced to move an honorary magistrate who performs the judicial function in the office of the trial, for a maximum of six months, then even for those six months it would not be correct to assign him a different salary, parametric on what he received during the office of the trial. Those who carry out judicial activities and for exceptional reasons must be satisfied with a situation of necessity of the office of the trial we maintain the same compensation, otherwise there would arise not only problems of constitutionality, but also of disparity between children and stepchildren because of the choice by the manager of the office. Finally, I would like to mention the parameters for the duration of the task. I am not convinced of the age limit of sixty-eight years, even for those who are not in service today, for the new ones. We have just discussed, in this Parliament, in this parliamentary term, the retirement age of judges and we have set the age at seventy years: that it is a uniform thing and that it is seventy years in this case too! And if the very limit must be sixty-eight - and I did not understand why it should be so, because it becomes a position that does not prevent the possibility of an agreement - at least it is not for those in service. They have made - let us be honest - a strong contribution to the administration of justice. In fact, when I was Undersecretary, I had to intervene because some honorary deputy prosecutors performed the function for about two years for free, because they were used for the investigative activity and had not had the hearing: I was forced to change the criterion, providing an allowance for an activity that exceeded five hours per day. I am therefore aware that this situation needs to be remedied. We cannot tell those who have fourteen years of service and will still have four years, at the last four years - when they have acquired the greatest professionalism admitted that at the beginning they did not have it fully - to return to the office of the trial. That's not possible. It is true that the rapporteur's amendment provides that the Higher Council may exceptionally adopt different destinations, but when it is expected that they can perform exclusively the tasks of the trial office, it seems to me that the criterion of the adequacy of the professionalism of the peace judge is contradicted. That being said, let's go to another aspect. I have tabled an amendment concerning competence (I cannot find the letter, but I remember it by heart and the rapporteur will follow me). When we say that the cases and measures of voluntary jurisdiction in the condominium of buildings belong to the jurisdiction of the Honorary Judge, we entrust him with a matter which, regardless of whether he is a lawyer or a lawyer, we all know how to present a high level of difficulty from the point of view of the case law and the evolution of the case law, with fluctuations reaching the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation, with some judgments that are contradictory after a few years. So let's leave them the voluntary jurisdictional measures for immediate intervention, but let's get rid of the condo lawsuits. Another aspect concerns amendment 2.311, tabled by the rapporteur. I would like to reiterate the comments I have already made on this point, considering that the matter of compensation should be in line with certain principles. For equal functions, the compensation must be equal, as far as the fixed part is concerned, whereas, as I have already said, we should attach the variable part to something objective, to be found, and not to the objectives of the individual judge. It is also said, in point (i) of the aforementioned amendment, that a social security and welfare scheme compatible with the honorary nature of the task, free of charge for public finances, must be identified and regulated, providing for the acquisition of the necessary resources by means of accident measures on the allowance. Apart from the fact that allowances are really ridiculous, that would mean, no more or less, that we will try to find a solution to offer, such as the possibility of private insurance. This reference is not necessary, otherwise it almost seems to make fun of people. I would therefore like to address the rapporteur and the Government: we must be able to discuss, in the time of the approval of the measure, with the National Council forensics, with the Cassa forensice and with the INPS, in order to ensure that the periods during which the duties of honorary magistrate are carried out can be evaluated, for the purposes of contributions to the cash register and the INPS, by means of figurative contributions, i.e. contributions of fixed amount, which will pay the honorary magistrates. So we will give them a perspective, predicting that, during the period in which the function of honorary magistrate is carried out, they will pay contributions in a certain way and that, after that period, they will return to pay as before, but they will have a continuity in the social security position, which joins both the previous part and the next one. Instead, as the text is, it cannot be voted on, because I do not think it is understandable. I would ask colleagues to take a number of issues into account. We need to look at functionality. When the honorary magistrates had the responsibility, they made a huge contribution to the administration of justice, i.e. when they were used according to an identified workload, so that they could demonstrate that they were able to dispose of it and make their contribution. Sometimes we talk about honorary judiciary as if it were a judiciary, I don't say B-series, but not even C-series. On the other hand, we do not take into account the fact that statistics give us a completely different representation and I am not talking about the quantity of work done, but about quality. It is enough to consider a part of the honorary judiciary that we are not talking about here, i.e. the tax magistrates: the appeal percentage of the first-degree judgments of the honorary judiciary does not exceed 14%, i.e. the same percentage as the ordinary judiciary's judgments. Again, if you go to take the rates of appeal of the judgments of the peace judges or the GOTs and those issued by the judges of the court, you will find yourself faced with a completely different situation. Why not appreciate this? Mr Undersecretary, you know better than I do that - I am taking the example of a judicial office that I know, because I have lived there decades - in the Milan Public Prosecutor's Office the judges and vice prosecutors honorary, in any of the last ten years, carry out more hearings and more trials than the professional magistrates of the same Public Prosecutor. I imagine you are aware of the need to take account of these data, of these situations in order both to assess the whole of the legislation and to determine the compensation. I hope that the generality of the criterion for compensation and many other issues will be accompanied at least by the identification of elements of certainty that give a sense of appreciation by this Parliament of the work of the honorary judiciary. I shall conclude my speech without making any further corrections, and I hope that, in these hours, a serious intercourse with the majority and the rapporteur, as happened in the Commission, will lead to corrections which will allow unanimity to be reached for the purpose I have referred to. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u26	On behalf of the Senate, I greet the students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico commerciale (Commercial Technical Institute) (Pier Luigi Nervi) of Rignano Flaminio, in the province of Rome, who are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u27	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their speeches which essentially confirmed what I said during the introductory report on the progress of work in the Commission. In fact, a substantial sharing of the draft law has emerged in a very clear way, but there have also emerged aspects that perhaps should be more detailed with a better examination of the proposed amendments, in order to arrive at the solution desired by Senator Caliendo, i.e. the approval, if possible, unanimously, of this draft law that marks a milestone in the history of the honorary judiciary. For this reason, Mr President, having appreciated many of the suggestions made during the general debate, I would ask you to postpone to next Tuesday the follow-up to the examination of the draft law in title, so that we can find solutions that will certainly improve the text and thus reach the broadest possible approval by the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u29	As no comments are made, I refer the following to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u32	LATORRE (PD). Mr President, I am speaking as rapporteur for draft law No 1917. Appreciate the circumstances, given the demanding nature of a debate that we would like to hold in a homogeneous way, also in order to deepen the content of the amendments, I think it is appropriate to postpone the beginning of the examination of draft law No 1917 to the sitting on Tuesday, hoping, even in the light of the news of these hours, that this may be an opportunity to hold us together around this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u33	If there are no comments, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u36	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak on the issue of meningitis in Tuscany. The Ministry of Health launches an alarm that warns those who intend to go to Tuscany for the risk of contracting the bacterium, an alarm that causes debate about the impact it creates. It is true that thirty-one cases, including six deaths, attributable to serogroup C, were reported in 2015 and that, on 26 February 2016, twelve cases of invasive disease were reported, of which four were fatal: they are certainly data to be taken seriously. But if Dr. Raniero Guerra, of the Department of the prevention of the Ministry of Health, arrives to launch an alarm to Ministries, institutes, ENAC and General Command of the captainies of port, a devastating alarm for the Tuscan tourist section, I think we must make more clarity on the measures that have already been adopted and on those that could be adopted ulteriorly. The Tuscany Region is making the utmost effort to stem the spread of the bacterium. The rug vaccination has been extended to the areas most affected by the increase in cases (I speak of the company ASL Toscana centro), but since the population moves continuously for study or for work, I believe that the vaccination should also be extended to the over forty-five throughout Tuscany. Since the economic commitment put in place by the Region (over seven million euros) is already very strong, I believe that the Ministry should allocate additional resources, with a view to real prevention and maximum protection of the population and in order to remedy the serious damage that alarmist announcements, such as the one sent, can cause to Tuscan tourism. Finally, I would ask the President of the Senate to facilitate and encourage the vaccination of all senators, of course for a fee, through our clinic, because, as this is a closed environment, we all have to travel for work or to go home, we should perhaps give an example, which would be a very good signal. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u39	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I would like to refer to what Senator Granaiola has just said, but I would also like to look at the case from another point of view, which is that of the agreement between the Region of Tuscany and the medical unions, which should lead - as it is said - to a real change of pace in the vaccination campaign against meningococcal C. In addition to determining the commitment of health care workers and medical guards, who will have additional hours to devote to the vaccination activity, doctors will receive not only a contribution for each vaccination actually carried out, which is around a little more than 6 euros per vial, but also a sort of premium based on the results. I must say that this is not a bonus to be despised, given that the contribution is EUR 400 and to get it we will have to vaccinate at least 75% of young people between the ages of eleven and twenty. In addition, if this percentage is exceeded, the premium will rise to 600 euros, while the reward mechanism for doctors who undertake to vaccinate adults and the elderly is still to be defined. The agreement between doctors and the Region therefore provides for a massive commitment of the territorial functional aggregations, the so-called AFTs, of the family doctors in an attempt to increase the coverage rates against meningococcus C. Among the novelties of the agreement there is also the aspect related to professional ethics, i.e. doctors are required to vaccinate and therefore those who refuse could be called back by the ASL rather than by the same order of doctors. Now, to carry out a vaccination by giving premiums to those who vaccinate is not a deontologically valid attitude, because it is like turning vaccination into a commodity, while vaccination must be a service. If a doctor is in front of a patient to whom he should recommend vaccination and the patient is aware of the existing premium system, the patient will easily ask his doctor if he is giving him the vaccine because it works or because he is taking a premium. This is a wrong attitude to address a problem as, in my opinion, the attitude of the media showing Tuscany as a land hit by a meningococcal epidemic is wrong. I understand the need to alert, but that should not be the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u42	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, the reception system for asylum seekers, we all know, is exploding. I remember the numbers: at the end of 2014 there were 66,000 to be hosted in the system, at the end of 2015 there were 103,000 and a screening for the current year speaks of over 150,000 asylum seekers. It is a system that has enormous costs and said Padoan, not the League: a billion and a half only for the reception in 2015 and for this year the projection is more than 2 billion. A lot of money is wasted, because most asylum seekers, as they certify after months and years, are illegals who are not entitled to protection. In 2015, 58 percent of applicants were not entitled to international protection. It is a real business, considering that 80 percent of the places of the reception system is run by temporary structures, hotels, resorts and private buildings, where, in fact, private, cooperatives and companies have converted their economic activity. Many of these subjects are unprejudiced, such as the Arcobaleno cooperative which, until February 26, managed three structures in the Municipality of Sconcone in Provincia dell'Aquila. In that case, after an inspection of the Pescara NAS, the mayor has signed a clearance order because bad sanitary conditions have been found, molds, nauseous smells, overcrowding of 33 asylum seekers, situations of danger and much more, which I do not go to mention. Yesterday I filed a question to the Interior Minister Alfano to ask if the Rainbow Cooperative has any precedents, whether the Prefecture of the Eagle, contracting the service, intends to re-determine the compensation paid in these months to the cooperative, whether there are other failures of the contract carried out by the cooperative itself and whether, taking into account that the cooperative has also awarded the notice for 2016, the Ministry, through the prefecture, intends to exclude the Rainbow Cooperative from the award of the contract. I add a final reflection: this is not the first case. The convention between the Prefecture of L'Aquila and the Arcobaleno cooperative was signed in August 2015: we wonder why the prefecture has not done preventive checks, or even in progress, during these months, to ascertain and counter these serious contractual violations for the payment of services for which the Italian community is paying well. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u45	PHASE (PD). Mr President, I think it is right to point out that last Monday was the World Rare Disease Day and therefore it is necessary to call on the Government to make every effort to give life to Article 32 of the Constitution, so that health protection is guaranteed to all, even to those - it seems a few, but not a few at world level - who are affected by so-called rare or very rare diseases, research orphans and medicines. Rare diseases are a large group of diseases defined by low prevalence in the population. A rare European disease is defined as a disease affecting no more than 5 patients in 10,000 inhabitants (about 500 in Friuli-Venezia Giulia). The number of rare diseases known and diagnosed varies between 7,000 and 8,000, but this is a figure that grows with the advance of science and, in particular, with the progress of genetic research. We are therefore talking not about a few sick people, but about two million people in Italy and even thirty million people throughout Europe. As I said, there are about 6,000 rare diseases documented. In Italy, the Higher Institute of Health has identified a list of rare diseases exempt from the ticket, which currently includes about 583 diseases. Some Italian regions have ruled exemptions for further pathologies compared to those provided for by Ministerial Decree no. 279 of 18 May 2001. The National Health Service, while attentive to the problem, provides special forms of protection for people suffering from these diseases, such as exemption from participation at the cost of all health services included in the essential levels of care (LEA) necessary for the diagnosis and treatment and the creation of a network of health care facilities for care, but the road is all uphill and there is still much to be done. On average, it takes three to five years to formulate the diagnosis of rare disease and often seven years. They are often chronic and serious diseases. Drug therapy is called orphan, as there is little use of drugs, which makes them unappetizing for industry and therefore research is scarce. There are also objective difficulties in statistical testing and validation and greater training of operators and a closer relationship with associations is needed. Communication with the specialist needs to be improved in order to promote an appropriate care course and, above all, to provide adequate psychological support for the patient and his/her family members. Let's not forget that 70 percent of the patients are teenagers and so... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u46	Senator Fasiolo, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u47	PHASE (PD). This is a challenge for the National Health System.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u50	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are 12,000 ludopaths who are officially being treated: a small minority compared to people who are really sick or at risk. Doctors talk about a phenomenon that affects two million people. Ludopathy affects all social classes across the board, but today, thanks to the spread of the phenomenon of slot machines and online gambling, it increasingly affects young people, pensioners and people with already behind economic difficulties and social discomfort. Something has been done to combat this phenomenon, but it is absolutely not enough. The lack of a coherent legislative framework that regulates gambling has generated in recent years an endless series of appeals against the attempts of Regions and local authorities to put stakes to stem the social consequences of spreading games with cash payouts. A sentence is calculated every five days. What is emerging from this is absolutely uneven legislation on national territory and not sufficiently effective to tackle the problem. The economic maneuver has entrusted the Unified State-Regions-Local Conference to define, by next April 30, the characteristics of the points of sale where the public play is collected, as well as the criteria for their distribution and concentration. The fear is that a compromise is sought between the health of the citizens and the economic interest that the State has in the gambling business and does not aim, therefore, to value and transpose at national level the most interesting and incisive experiences put in place by Regions and local self-governments in order to combat in a more effective way such a serious and widespread phenomenon as that of ludopathy. The wish of me and of the Italy component of the Values of the Mixed Group, to which I belong, is that in any case and in every legislative body, we proceed with force, urgency and determination because the current spread of gambling in our country is a social, health, cultural and sometimes even criminal cancer, of which we must free ourselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u53	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring a very important issue to the attention of this House and, above all, of the Presidency, and I would ask the Presidency itself to take action, as far as it is competent, to inform those responsible. Perugina's industrial plan was presented yesterday. We have analysed the proposals made and we have considered these proposals as worrying, because a large number of euros (60 million) have been allocated, coated over the next three years, but only for the production of chocolate (we are talking about the famous kiss Perugina, tablets, etc.), while at least two production lines will be discontinued. This is a concern, because it is news that comes down months and months of rumors, from which we have deduced the fact that these lines would be disused. There is a great deal of concern for the about a thousand employees of this company, which is fundamental not only for the city of Perugia, but also for Umbria and Italy itself, being representative not only of the territory, but also of a very important productive specificity. I would therefore ask the Presidency to take action, as far as its competence is concerned, in order to be able to report to the relevant offices on this issue, which is of enormous concern with regard to the working and productive aspects of that part of Umbrian territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u54	Senator Lucidi, I assume that you have already prepared an act of inspection union, which I believe may be the instrument that would allow the Presidency to call for clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u57	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, it was 26 February 1992 (then twenty-four years ago), when a small town in Nagorno Karabakh, Khojaly, suffered a fierce attack and a heinous massacre. On that night between February 25 and 26, 1992, the Armenian militia forces attacked the city and the dead were more than 600, while 1,300 were the people who, between escaped and interned, found themselves having to leave the city. This, Mr President, must bring to our attention a conflict, that of Nagorno Karabakh, on which entire books and treaties have been written. There are UN and OSCE resolutions (there are as many as four of the UN Security Council), but, twenty-four years later, everything remains unresolved. The aspect that dramatically worries, looking at the current situation, is what has happened over time, that is, the displacement of people. You see, Mr President, it is estimated that between 1988 and 1994, between 750,000 and 800,000 Azerbaijani ethnic citizens were forced to move and leave Nagorno Karabakh, pressed by the Armenian militias. This brings to mind facts that we commemorated and that happened in Italy seventy years ago, with our citizens forced to move from the former Yugoslavia and to leave. Mr President, this speech is aimed at calling not only for a reminder of this dramatic and bloody fact, but also, through your person, for attention from the Foreign Commission. President Casini will certainly be able to take up the call to deal with this situation during a sitting and to check, requesting appropriate hearings, how the situation is evolving and how the resolutions adopted by Parliament and international organisations are or have not been implemented. In this sense, Italian foreign policy should also be urged to deal with it in a conclusive manner. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u58	Thank you for your remembrance, Senator Candiani, to whom the Presidency is associated. We are making your statement to the Foreign Commission officials in real time so that they can make President Casini aware of it, so that you can check President Casini's willingness to deal in the Commission, as you wished, with the dramatic story of Nagorno Karabakh, not only with the memory, but also with everything that was then achieved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-585.ana.u59	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.08 p.m.
