ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u10	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, in thanking President Grasso for his valuable commemorative speech yesterday at a conference dedicated to Professor Biagi, I asked him to renew his memory here too, near the fourteenth anniversary of his death, for two reasons. The first leads back to the immanence of violence in our public dimension along a large part of our republican experience. Today we fear above all the external danger induced by a terrorism that operates on a global scale, but we cannot underestimate an internal phenomenon, indigenous, which has already shown that it has karst characteristics and that it can always avail itself of a cultivation stock that is not absorbed. The second refers instead to the topicality of Marco Biagi's intuition, when we live the fourth industrial revolution produced by the diffusion of new digital technologies. We could not otherwise explain the almost unique case of an intellectual whose name still takes place, after many years, many initiatives that move from his vision to analyze the changes taking place in our labour market and identify the possible paths of adjustment of our policies in order to foster growth accompanied by an adequate employment intensity. Yesterday, in Rome, his students and a very young generation of their students developed his lesson claiming that only an even greater subsidiary delegation to the collective bargaining of proximity and to the individual agreements certified will allow the adaptation of the modalities of agile performance of the work services to the new organizational modules of the production of goods or services. They stressed in particular that he was right to sell when, in a time of much slower technological development, he identified the right to continuous learning as the best protection for workers compared to the dangers of social exclusion. Tomorrow, in Bologna, the Italian Society of Labor Medicine will dedicate its reflections on the new ways in which to guarantee the safety of workers when the Internet of things or robots render obsolete the traditional business dimensions and, in them, the fixed positions, allowing remote performance. Marco Biagi will be reminded of the rejection of legal formalism and the substantive approach to the primary goal of health at work. At the same time, in Modena, he will renew the periodic international seminar promoted by him at the time to apply also to labour law that comparative method that today, even more than yesterday, allows the convergence of rules and policies in an interconnected world. In short, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we must remember Marco Biagi in order to encourage many young people to follow his example of visionary designer, of curious researcher who wanted to make a permanent engine of innovation, dedicating himself full time with the renunciation of the free profession forensic. Ambitious of knowing and letting know more than power, a true teacher of life. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u13	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is certainly very difficult to remember the moment we lived fourteen years ago when a high-level scholar was killed by brigadeists, by terrorists who made a violent gesture not only against a person, but against a country that Biagi wanted to try to change with his ideas. Marco Biagi collaborated with the then minister Roberto Maroni and was engaged in a great attempt, that of modernising the world of work in our country, trying to introduce elements of novelty that could allow a larger number of workers, often atypical, to enjoy greater protection. When we talk about Marco Biagi we have to talk about his ideas, which, despite everything, have continued to spread, even in the parliamentary classrooms, and have found a concrete application over the years. Perhaps this is the true testimony of the defeat of those who thought to kill a man and thought to kill also his ideas that, if shared, would lead our country towards a different and certainly better job outlet, favoring young people, but also those who were excluded from the world of work in age no longer young and who were taken into consideration in the proposals that Marco Biagi made together with other scholars of value. To think that killing a man like Marco Biagi could stop the spread of his ideas and a different way of conceiving work, no longer linked to regiments no longer functional to development and unable to attract investments, was an obvious mistake, because his ideas were humus for the most advanced Juslavoristic theories: this was also the strength of Marco Biagi. There's someone who remembered him a year after the first commemoration since he disappeared: On the day of the commemoration of Mark Biagi, one year after his tragic death, there is a strong temptation to address his murderers with the words they deserve, words of contempt without conditions, words dried up by every tear. To listen to feelings would be to tell them: "Whoever you are, wherever you hide, you will never have from me neither forgiveness nor human compassion." But we are different from these ferocious criminals of armed communism, for us the red is the symbol of love, not the innocent blood that they cowardly poured out. We will never forget, they never ask us to feel pity, but today our thoughts, our memories, our affection are all for the victim, for the victims of terrorism and for their families. For those with administrative responsibilities of government there is no better way to remember and pay homage to the sacrifice of a great servant of the State than to complete the reformer plan for which he was killed. The summary of Marco Biagi's project, which he had so wisely set out in the White Paper on the labour market, is condensed into the final lines of his latest editorial, published in the "Il Sole 24 Ore" on the same day he was brutally killed: "Solidarity is effective if one is really trying to build a different and more just society" These are the words of Roberto Maroni, his great collaborator in the government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u16	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, the anniversary of the assassination of Marco Biagi tragically reminds us of the last whisper of the brigatist terrorism. That 19 March 2002 was in fact a terrible leap into the past, a return to those years of lead that seemed to belong to the history and no longer to the chronicle of our country. For red terrorism the Juslavorists have always been the first enemies, enemies to be eliminated in the name of an extremist and distorted declination of the interests of the working class. Labour market reform has for too long been taboo for the left, or rather, for a part of the left, what reform considered absolute evil. A labour market, the Italian one, that Biagi defined the worst from the point of view of its ability to include, that is to determine high rates of employment, but that in the last twenty years, thanks to the reformer process started first with the Treu law, then precisely with the Biagi law and therefore with the jobs act, a few steps forward finally has done so. This is important but not sufficient and the major brake has always come from the most conservative part of the union, which was a bitter opponent of Biagi and his doctrine of flexibility (the flexicurity that so much is spoken of today was the soul of his White Paper). Yet, thanks to the policies inspired by that doctrine, our labour market has experienced, despite all its contradictions, a dynamic of uninterrupted growth for the first years of 2000, despite the poor performances of the economy and a welfare system that has become obsolete, which used the resources of the weakest in favor of the strongest, but that in the imagination of a part of the country stood and stands like the last Berlin wall of the ideological left. The lesson of Biagi, that Minister Sacconi has very well declined in the years of Government of the center right, is very simple: Italy will not go anywhere, will never be able to face the new needs and to recognize the new rights if it will not be able to rebalance social spending in favour of young people. 14 years after his death, Marco Biagi remains the distinction between the reformism of those who know how to look to the future and conservative maximumism. Biagi worked for a welfare system that included, that puts work back into circulation and that no longer tends to exclude, to keep the unemployed on the margins, through the emergence and transformation of welfare benefits from mere integration to income, incentives for rapid re-employment. The great intuition of Biagi was to ensure a substantial balance between greater flexibility of each individual working relationship and greater protection of the person in the labour market. While in the 1990s Marco Biagi's ideas seemed all too innovative, they actually represented a necessary horizon that had to be pursued, starting from the creation of a more modern, more inclusive labour market, more open to young people and women, the excluded of all time. Surely, without the battle of Biagi today we would be further behind in the path of modernization of the work. In the legacy that he left us and that his assassins could not erase, in the first place there is the worker as holder of full and continuous access to knowledge and skills that, alone, can guarantee him an active place in the labour market and in society. All this was at the heart of the thought of the great reformist socialist that we remember today with sorrow and gratitude. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u19	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, what can I add to what Mr Grasso said yesterday and what did the honourable senators say this morning? Marco Biagi had neither escorted nor used a service car. He was riding his bike from the station at home when he met the three brigadeists who took his life. Marco Biagi came across a tail of the red brigade that bloodied Italy for many years and that in 2002 seemed already defeated. He came across that tail and the eager, desperate and criminal attempt to rekindle that kind of terrorism by raving about the plan of capital. I have to say to this House that this kind of capital rambling that puts all freedoms, rights and democracies at risk was not born only from the minds of petty bourgeois people tempted by fanaticism; it is also the consequence of our inability to reform, of the limits of our political and cultural debate already in those years. The questions of the transformation of our country were already raised from the end of the boom, in the mid-sixties. The political class, but also the sensual-side ruling class of our country has not faced them; for this reason they have grown very dangerous drifts like those of terrorism. Marco Biagi compared to all this he proposed as an excellent professor of labour law and tried to identify change in continuity, trying not to undo the status of workers, which bears the signature, among others, of Brodolini and which was a high moment of the political and cultural debate of our country, but to adapt it to new needs. Something like this is happening in a country near us, France. Here there is a controversy like the Italian one: their article 18 is the thirty-five hours. However, the attempt to reform the labour market has been made in a certain style. President Hollande - the Italian newspapers say little - has appointed a great jurist named Badinter (perhaps the less young of you remember the battle to abolish the death penalty in France in 1981), who wrote a preamble to the new labor code where certainly it opens very much to the flexibility and needs of companies but in which fundamental rights are reaffirmed. In Italy we have not done this, but in fact we have changed the functionings, the relationships of strength and the relationships between employees and employers without an organic reform. We did so by letting it be done, that is, in the same way that we have put our hands on constitutional reforms. In front of the memory of Marco Biagi, whom I remember with respect, we should all then be a little more careful and a little more aware of our responsibilities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u22	BERTACCO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been mentioned several times, it was 8.15 p.m. on 19 March 2002 when Marco Biagi was murdered on his way home after one of the many tireless days of study and work. The previous week a weekly published the news that the Judaist was in the Red Brigade's sights. Biagi didn't want to change even a small gesture of his everyday life (it has just been remembered that that evening he came home from the station by bicycle), although he knew that his very existence was threatened, going around in his Bologna without escort. Unfortunately, he came back to strike that blind and barbaric terrorism that had already killed distinguished scholars such as Ezio Tarantelli, Roberto Ruffilli and Massimo D'Antona, all guilty of wanting to modernise the labour market, achieving a balance between flexibility and security and putting in place a series of counterweights and social guarantees. The work of Biagi had been absolutely transversal, putting his enormous qualities of scholar at the disposal of the State, as adviser to the Prodi, D'Alema, Amato and Berlusconi Governments, as well as adviser to Minister Maroni, just at the time when he was killed. They took away his most precious good, but failed to stop his scientific and rigorous studies, which became the reform of the work order in a law dedicated to him. His work as a scholar of the labour law of other states more modern and dynamic than ours should be his most important teaching. His studies, starting from the White Paper, which contains serious and concrete proposals on the labour market in Italy to safeguard the purchasing power of remuneration, as well as its absolute value, are a daily warning in the face of an economic crisis that does not mention ending; a more just system of work, which offered more opportunities, valued and rewarded merit and brought with it perspectives and programmes: Marco Biagi was used to imagining the future. It is necessary to remember his important work, which must become a shared heritage, just as it is important to have as a lasting and daily example his figure as a man. Allow me to address one last thought to Mrs. Biagi and her son Lorenzo, who had to suffer the loss of a great man, removed from the most frightening and ignoble cowardice of those who preferred to shoot often behind the back of the defenseless. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u25	SANTINI (PD). Madam President, reformist culture owes a great deal to Marco Biagi, to whom it is linked by a profound thread which, even now, fourteen years after the tragic murder, invites us to deepen and draw on his thought, as well as to remember the human figure, also to face the present and to plan the future. The courage to make choices, to design new solutions, based on a careful analysis of the dynamics and incongruity of the present, was the cultural basis of a scholar who loved to define himself as a "project tourist" and who, among his favorite mottos, had the significant design to be able to reform. Knowing how to deal with the issues of the labour market in a not provincial perspective, but attentive to international dynamics, was at the origin of the comparative method carried out by Marco Biagi, taken up by his teacher, Professor Mancini, dictated by the deep conviction that - they are words of Biagi - only those who know the experiences of other legal systems can evaluate what happens in their internal system. Comparison is not merely a cultural exercise. Instead, it is a question of fully understanding the reasons that have led to certain solutions rather than other solutions. The comparison - continued Biagi - is the only laboratory evidence available to the jurist. A method that allowed Biagi to get out of the consolidated forts of formalist lawyers and made him habitual to confront himself in the whole field, even with political, social and economic actors, in an interdisciplinary and dynamic perspective, not knowing self-referential or ideological rigidities. On this basis he has made a major contribution to labour law, starting with his White Paper and its transposition into subsequent laws, until the tragic moment of the assassination. In remembering today Marco Biagi, it seems significant to me to emphasize two points. The first is to make historical reason for the prejudice that concerned Marco Biagi and that linked his name to the idea of spreading precariousness. I had a very strong experience, on the occasion of the decade of the assassination, in 2012, when, as part of an initiative organized in Bologna, for the first time the wife Marina took the floor in public, intervening in front of a wide audience of boys and girls of the Bolognese schools, without ever going over the lines and with delicate pain. So Marina said: After the infamous people killed him, his name was associated with precariousness: this is a terrible lie. On the contrary, Marco wanted to protect those who would find themselves in this difficult situation. Marco said to me at dinner the night before he was killed: "Unfortunately there will be precariousness, but we must make it somehow protected, that is, those who have precarious work have rights." He fought against black work in particular. One of the goals of Marco Biagi's reform was in fact the Statute of the works, not a body of rules in its own right, but an organic intervention, designed since the time of collaboration with the first Prodi Government, to extend the levels of protection to all forms of work. The Statute of the works - wrote Biagi - should finally give Italy new techniques to regulate all kinds of works, even the most atypical ones, reviewing old norms no longer in tune with the modern organization of the work and foreseeing new ones able to govern the emerging trades... How can we fail to see here the advance of that right statute of self-employment which is coming out precisely in these weeks? As Biagi wrote in 2002, the market and the organisation of work are evolving at a speed not comparable to that of the past and the national horizon is no longer sufficient to outline, alone, the rules of labour market law. And today, in this global crisis, his teachings continue, in order to balance the values of efficiency with equity, of competitiveness with social cohesion; objectives that give a soul and a precise direction to a word too often used only as slogans: flexicurity. To work hard to combat the true "precariousness" of our labour market, following and updating these teachings, is the best response both to the barbaric act that deprived us of Marco and to the many instrumental and superficial polemics that have unjustly blurred his figure after. Madam President, I would ask you to allow me to add the remainder of my speech to the accounts of today's sitting. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u26	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Santini, and joins the words of condolence expressed by colleagues in the memory of Professor Marco Biagi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u27	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1894, 98, 248 and 1832. I remember yesterday's afternoon sitting when the general debate was over. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I listened carefully to all those who spoke in yesterday's general debate on the issue of the institution of this day for the commemoration of the innocent victims of the Mafia. As I expected, there were no conflicting voices. In fact, the legislative act before us meets the feeling of the great majority of this House, as is believed to be the feeling of the vast majority of Italian citizens, that is, of all those who refer to legality as a method of social life. The fact that everyone agrees on the establishment of this day, however, raised a doubt and made me light a red light of alert. We must absolutely avoid, in fact, reserving only one celebration to this subject, by carrying out by means of a sort of de facto removal. As I said yesterday in the report to this House, the State has a lot, a lot to do, because even today Italian citizens still feel at risk when they denounce, because they are still under the pressure of organized crime, which has found, in an alliance with the dark sides of the great enterprise of our country, elements of synergy. Therefore, I greet with just enthusiasm this bill, which I imagined could constitute a suture between civil society, which fights against the mafia, and the State, which puts itself correctly at its head. At the same time, I would like to address all of us, who have responsibilities for political representation, and to the Government, which has responsibility for the management of the Forces of Order and social actions in contrast to all the distortions and shortcomings of society, to which the Mafia tries to replace in a vicious and surreptitious way. If we can put together the capacity to make democratic and legalistic memory and culture, if at the same time we can also give effective and effective answers to the demand for legality, which is widespread in our country, then and only then will we have done our full duty. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u29	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u30	Madam President, my fellow Senators, today we conclude a path initiated on the initiative of various Senators from different parliamentary groups. I welcome this conclusion and the convergence that has taken place on this text. It is important that a bill is passed that aims to enhance the memory of the innocent victims of the mob, but also the commitment to defend institutions and society from mob penetration. It is becoming increasingly clear that only police actions or judicial decisions are no longer enough. Every day the chronicles tell us the results of the intense and fruitful work of law enforcement and the judiciary, which I thank, because those results are the result of a great investigative capacity, a great dedication to work and also of the ability of great coordination between the different police forces and between the institutions of the State. In the same way, every day the activities that end through the adoption of measures of prevention of a patrimonial nature are reported, which are certainly the most effective tool to counter the criminal domination of the mob, 'ndranghetista and camorrista. However, we know that this action is not enough. We need the awareness of civil society; we need the commitment and the protagonism of the citizens, so that the culture of legality is spread and practiced, so that everyone feels that he has rights to be claimed by every force, rather than the recipient of favours guaranteed by bodies of various kinds. It does not escape that, in recent times, the mafiosa evolution has involved an ability to exercise control of the territory and activities, even of an institutional nature, through the use of corruption: more and more evident are the relationships between criminal activities exercised by mafia and camorrist organizations and the use of corruption. It is therefore important that the commitment not only of the institutions, but also of the citizens, to free society from criminal domination is recalled. This is certainly true in the many realities of the Mezzogiorno dominated by the criminal force, but also for the richest realities of the country, increasingly threatened by criminal penetration, mafia and 'ndranghetista. It is necessary to be aware of how appropriate and decisive it is to update law enforcement policies and actions. New instruments must be put in place, capable of making the mechanisms governing economic, social life and the activities of republican institutions impenetrable. We take on this horizon every day and think that the new anti-mafia culture must be accompanied by a commitment to make the mechanism for the functioning of public institutions more efficient and transparent, because only transparency, only traceability of decisions and activities of a public nature and the direct participation of stakeholders, including through the opposition of divergent interests, can guarantee democratic and liberal exercise in economic activities and social activities. We therefore need a robust democratic culture and the awareness that, through respect for the rules and the exercise of legality, the problems we face are effectively solved and the rights of everyone are guaranteed. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Lucio Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u31	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u32	Madam President, when I compare myself with Senator Lo Moro and the rapporteur, Senator Campanella, I welcomed the proposal to withdraw three amendments and to present the agenda G1.101, which aims to exalt the two central moments of a day that we are all committed to making a great moment in the country's life, able to shake consciences and renew the action against the mafias that, as has been said, needs both the moment of memory and the other important moment of commitment. At the moment of the commitment we must build a new design dimension of the anti-mafia itself and in this planning include universities, national anti-mafia associations committed and a new path that anti-mafia must follow with humility, correcting also serious errors and accepting the new challenges that the mafias bring, especially on the side of international recycling, corruption in the mafia-political relationship and mafia-economics. We often underestimate the social and cultural work that is an essential ingredient, which can help the anti-Mafia to make this fight a battle for citizens, capable of modifying and improving the lives of many young people and many realities, especially in the neighbourhoods at risk. It's a challenge. I think that with this attitude of sharing we can all take a step forward and approve this text unanimously.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u33	Madam President, starting from the assumption that many, among the victims of the mob, are citizens who lived an absolutely normal and common life and that every citizen who plays his social role in an absolutely loyal way, respecting the laws and fulfilling his duty is an important obstacle to the infiltration of mafia crime, with the order of the day G1,102 asks the Government to highlight the disappearance of people who are not known, whose name never reaches the general public and notoriety, but who do their work silently and fulfilling their duties as citizens fail.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u34	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u35	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u36	The opinion is opposed to amendment 1,104 and in favour of amendment 1,100, if reworded by implementing the condition laid down by the Budget Commission. The opinion is also in favour of agendas G1.100, G1.101 and, of course, G1.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u37	I give my assent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u38	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,104. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u41	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, on Amendment No 1,104, the rapporteur and the Government have expressed a contrary opinion and, frankly, I do not understand the reason for that. The title of the bill reads: "Institute of the National Day of Memory and Commitment in remembrance of the innocent victims of the Mafia." What I context is the presence of the term "innocent" and I recall that the text, perhaps by my colleague Lumia, did not include that term. I went to read the definition of Mafia victims, according to which: "Victims of the Mafia shall mean natural persons who have died or suffered injuries due to criminal events of a mafia nature. The victims of the Mafia are also legal persons who have been subjected to acts by organized crime of a mafia nature. In both cases, the recognition of Mafia victim status cannot be without being outside this criminal environment. There are a number of associations, the most diverse in the world, dealing with victims of road accidents, victims of terrorism, victims of all kinds of events, I therefore ask myself, given that the definition of the victim status of the mafia already excludes belonging to organized crime, if there is a need to add the term "innocent" to what is already written, for example, by tabulas in the text establishing the Commission for the allocation of the Rotation Fund for solidarity with victims of mafia-type crimes. It's like saying that today is a "beautiful more beautiful" day: let's learn how to write the laws properly! And not by chance, this change took over because the Day of remembrance of the victims of the Mafia has undergone a transformation in the sense of what is the definition stigmatized by the Free Association. As Libera introduced the term innocent, we went to add it too. The parliamentary initiatives here are few or none, because we are dealing with the conversion of decree-laws. However, the few laws we have dealt with are not of parliamentary initiative, but come from the various associations: from the association for the victims of the road, for which we have approved the law on road murder, from the Free Association, for which we establish the Day of the victims of the mafia, until the cut of the vitalities of the parliamentarians, always wanted by Libera, that carries out these pressures. But can our Senate return to its own sovereignty, at least in terms of spelling? In addition to declaring the vote in favour of my amendment, which will certainly be rejected, I would like to add that, as I said yesterday, there are 253 commemorative days, which yesterday became 254 and when we approve the gift day, even the result of external pressure, they will become 255: with this average, Madam President, we will have to change the number of days of the year, because we will no longer have enough days for our days! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u44	FALANGA (AL-A). Senator Calderoli, you say that this amendment will be rejected, but it will not be rejected by the votes of my Group because we vote for it and for a simple reason, first of all of a linguistic nature, because the concept of victim includes in itself the condition of innocence. It's very hard to imagine that a victim is not innocent. As for the consideration she has made in regard to this mania of following the indications which come from non-political subjects, supported through their representatives who make that activity an instrument of political success, we do not agree in favour of this type of activity. I am surprised that the Government has expressed an opinion against this amendment, because Italian is not an opinion; Italian is Italian, and someone, even from the benches of the Government, must explain to me how the concepts of innocence and victim can be combined: if the subject is not involved in business and illegal activity is a victim; otherwise it is not. We have to say so, why are they telling us to say so? I'm not in, we're not in, and we're saying what we think is right, regardless of the suggestions. This Senate must not accept suggestions from anyone but from the Italian people. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u47	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, in the Commission we voted in favour of the text at first signature of Senator Dirindin and we will also vote for it in this House. However, I would ask the representative of the Government and the rapporteur to consider the amendment tabled by Mr Calderoli. Saying "innocent victims" means introducing an element of rupture of this union that should be realized in the day in memory of the victims of the mob. Imagine just for a moment if, hypothetically, a discussion, a debate, between various committees or associations were opened, because of three deaths killed by the mafia, perhaps the third is not an innocent victim: do you realize what we are going to create? Who will establish it? The organization that wants to organize the event? If by chance one of the killed were convicted of mafia, he would not be a victim of the mafia; but if they are victims of the mafia, saying innocent means opening an internal debate and then creating a clash that is not allowed on an occasion of commemoration aimed at finalizing everyone's commitment against the mafia, educating on legality. This obviously contradicts the hypothesis that the victim was a mobster. If he were a mobster, he wouldn't be the victim of the mob. That is why it is useless to put the word "innocent": it only means to create the possibility of a clash between those who want to organize, on the day of memory or on a different occasion, the commemoration of some victims. Please remove that word, because there is no judge, there is no trial, there is no authority that can determine which are the innocent victims and which are not. It is clear, however, that it can be shared by all that the mobster, that is, the one who is condemned for relations with the mob that is killed, is certainly not the victim of the mob, unlike the others who, on the other hand, have no responsibility and must all be considered victims of the mob.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u50	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I speak only to read from the Treccani Vocabulary the meaning of the term "victim" according to the Italian language: "Who succumbs to other deception and bullying, suffering an overwhelming, a damage, or being persecuted and oppressed anyway." The vocabulary gives examples such as the victim of an intrigue, the victim of the bullying of others. ==References====External links== Victim, by definition, is who suffers, not guilty, a wrong. An innocent victim doesn't exist. The victim is a victim. I also believe that it is a matter of respect for the Italian language and of not creating absurd complications using two terms that contradict each other. For the Italian language, the victim as such is the one who suffers, without having any fault, a hostile attitude. Even the victim was the sacrificial one, the kid brought to the sacrifice. It is useless to add the word 'innocent', so I support this cleaning up of the text, which seems to me only of common sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u53	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I rarely agree with the views expressed by Senator Calderoli, but I have to say that this issue is LaPalissiana. The qualification of innocent is within the qualification of victim, as the victim can only be innocent; otherwise he is involved in an action that has certainly connoted of negativity, without reaching the murder or physical violence. From this point of view, I therefore call on the rapporteur and the Government to amend the opinion on the amendment. I would also like to say a few more words. In these days I have remained quite silent about the various measures that recall days of memory and memory of various nature, while more than memory or memory we should put into place the commitment and commitment needs everyday life, not memory or activity on a single day of the year. Among other things, I do not believe that our country needs regulations that recall the memory; it needs legislative measures - without exceeding, for the truth - that plan the future, that indicate concrete objectives, that address the problems that Italy and the Italians have. We try to leave the memory to the archives of associations - meritorious, for charity - and of subjects who want to guarantee a political visibility through a legislative initiative of this kind and we give space to a more concrete and more difficult commitment, which is that of identifying the paths to give this country a perspective that has difficulty in identifying. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u55	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u56	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Senator Caliendo has spoken for my Group, so, of course, I justify my speech with the dissenting vote. I would ask the House to be careful. You are reducing this Memory Day to an exquisitely legal fact. You're legalizing a value. If you go through the text and read the purposes of the meetings and demonstrations, you see that those aims are all aimed at the construction of a culture of anti-mafia, they are all aimed at the memory of the striking facts of the history and the chronicle of this country, which unfortunately excludes - alas - from the detail of the individual victims and brings the discussion and confrontation on the whole of the victims, on how horrible a criminal organization has managed to do in this country. But do you really think that in a demonstration within a school we will talk about the son of Di Matthew, who is the victim of the mob, even though he is the mafia father? We'll talk about something else. Do you really believe that in those demonstrations there will be a real and real memory of what preceded the murder of John Falcone and his story, all internal to the judicial world and which led, alas, the Supreme Council of the judiciary not to point him out in the Commission as a national prosecutor anti-mafia? If you want to set up a day of memory - and I agree with you - you can only ignore the details and write "innocent" is a detail, because, as it is written in the preleggios, in the interpretation of the law the preparatory works are important, the text of the law is important and in the preparatory work it has come to no one's mind to write that among the victims of the mob there is also the mobster killed by its mob associates. And no one has thought of writing in the text that those demonstrations will have to have this object and not something higher. In the search for unanimity yet another draft law of institution of a day of memory, I think we must do without details, because if those details bring water to the mill of the association that perhaps suggested them, they do not really bring water to the unanimous vote of a symbolic measure and a fair measure. I cannot vote in favour of this because my group has spoken out and I shall abstain. But I certainly say that, if the term 'innocent' is to remain within the text, I do not think I can vote in favour of this measure, because that term 'improves' the very purpose of the measure. [[Applause from Senator Marin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u59	DIRINDIN (PD). Madam President, I would like to include myself in this debate, which I can only appreciate in some ways, because if we really open up a season in which we pay attention to the quality of the legislative technique and the words that can be more or less useful within our standards, perhaps from now on we will actually be able to produce more effective and less misunderstanding standards. However, I would like to express the reasons why, after having meditated for a long time, for example in the bill at my first signature, we shared the idea of keeping the word "innocent". I would like to say - I say this with great respect - that those who raise these doubts may not understand the spirit of the norm that we are proposing. The problem is not to recognize and distinguish innocent victims from others, but to say that being an innocent victim is different than being an accomplice; it is to say that there are so many innocent victims: there are children, one or two months old, who have lost their lives simply because they found themselves in the wrong place at some time, and they are certainly more innocent than others. Above all, this bill does not want to be simply - it is understood if you read its title well and it is not a coincidence - an opportunity to remember the names of the victims, it wants to be an opportunity to spread a culture of legality that for many years the family members of the real victims of the Mafia have asked us to make our own, and they have worked so that we all make a contribution to the culture of legality, and not from the anti-Mafia, although obviously the culture of anti-Mafia is important, but to restore trust in democratic institutions. To do this, we need to be able to understand who is innocent and who is not innocent. Although it is true that the laws are walking with the legs of those who implement them, I think that there will be no need to set up committees - as someone has said - that distinguish those who are innocent from those who are not (there are already bodies in charge of them), while there is a need to reaffirm that there are so many people who work so that those who want truth and social justice are also recognized by Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Maurizio Romani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u61	Senator Calderoli, you've already intervened. What do you ask the floor for? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). President, I'll ask you for a minute. I did not explain the amendment and I would like to add a clarification. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I would like to point out that today we are setting a day by law in memory of the innocent victims. All previous legislation for the victims of the Mafia, which is in force, such as Legislative Decree No. 204 of 2007, guarantees the granting and distribution of a Rotary Fund and social benefits in favour of the victims of the Mafia, introducing one case. Today, by law, we risk creating a dichotomy compared to what for me is a single, unified and unique position: the victims of the mob can only be innocent victims. If you're a mob victim and you work for the mob, you're a criminal, you're not a victim. Therefore, in order to have uniform legislation in this area, I would ask that the word 'innocent' be deleted, even for the sake of those who benefit from the absolutely legitimate rotation fund and social security benefits.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u64	Mr Campanella, rapporteur. Madam President, I rise to make a point. This act wants to be a reunion between the fight against the mafia carried out by important elements of civil society and the State which, as I said, is leading, as is right, this battle. The term "innocent victims" is what civil society has produced and sedimented in all these years. It is certainly a more ethical than legal qualification, as Mr Calderoli rightly pointed out. I still think it has its meaning. All that has been said, I do not want to waste the opportunity for the whole of this House to express itself unequivocally on this measure, because it is extremely important that this should happen. I would therefore like to put myself back to the vote of every single senator, leaving the House free to comment on the matter, so that in the end we can vote in favour of the text, possibly amended.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u65	I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on this new assessment by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u66	I support the rapporteur's proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u67	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,104 tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and LN-Aut]] I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Moronese and other Senators, which the presenters have agreed to reword in accordance with the conditions of the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Brusio]] Colleagues, please lower the tone of your voice, because it is not possible to work in this way. Amendments 1,101, 1,102 and 1,103 have been withdrawn. Senator Moronese, do you insist on voting on the agenda G1,100? MORONESE (M5S). Yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u70	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I should like to point out that in the previous vote I did not have the opportunity to vote in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u73	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking on a question of coordination. In the order of business G1,100 there is always talk of innocent victims with reference to the title that had previously the bill. I would ask the author of the amendment whether she intends to update the text, although of course it is not mandatory.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u74	The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I don't understand. In coordination, the title will be harmonised with the amendment we have approved. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). In the second line of premises. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Of course, but we will have to go to the coordination of the text. We leave this to the presenter, because it is an agenda and if the presenter wishes to maintain the wording she is free to do so. The text of the agenda is not binding and the title of the measure is correctly quoted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u77	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, of course, the agendas were presented before the vote in this House and I have reported what is planned in the basic text under discussion, so I do not think it is necessary to make a change, partly because it is an agenda. It's not my turn to change in the process.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u78	It is not necessary, also because when there is the citation of the title of the bill is already contained the elimination of the word "innocent". I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Lumia, do you insist on voting on the agenda G1,101? LUMIA (PD). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.101, tabled by Senators Lumia and Lo Moro. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Campanella, do you insist on voting on the agenda G1.102? Mr Campanella, rapporteur. Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on the agenda, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u81	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, it was a spring day - ten days after the equinox of not too distant 1984 - when in Nardò, a municipality like so many of my Salento, a young woman administrator, the city council member for culture and public education, Renata Fonte, was colded in an atrocious way, with a cowardly gesture, by three hit men on the door of the house. Justice, in this case, has taken its course. The culprits were arrested and the murderers were convicted. Every year Renata's commitment and example are reminded with the award of a prize to those who, during the year, have distinguished themselves by institutional commitments and clear opposition to mafia behaviour. Renata is today, not only in Puglia, synonymous with hope for local politics: a policy and a responsibility that deserve here a digression because of the increasingly worrying data that report of an exponential growth of intimidation towards local administrators and on which we await the final report by the Committee of Inquiry set up in the Senate. Renata is also an example for young people, who can find in her short life a valid and authoritative model to inspire, a valuable and behavioral reference. It is therefore in March (the month that, by the way, we associate with women and celebrate them in the month of spring) that an initiative is created that intends to sow and spread those healthy antibodies that are born, develop and grow with the historical memory shared in defense not only of democratic institutions, but also of the first and noble sense of the freedom of the person. We have impressed on our minds the principle that ideas walk on the legs of men and women who make themselves and lend themselves to be their practical examples. In this regard, my thoughts today are also directed at the children who are stunned in what appears to be an unbearable mockery of the law and who should draw the attention of all of us in this House. I refer, on the day on which we set up a further value reference against the mafias, to the students of the institute "Majorana" in Bari, Puglia, who, gathered for years in a cooperative, managed, after having restored it, a resort confiscated from the boss Sorangelo. Well, after twelve years of trial and twenty years from the facts contested, Bari's Court of Appeal has annulled this confiscation, putting this structure back in the possession of the Sorangel, despite the obvious irregularities. It is a bitter story, this, with a very bad epilogue, that I hope the general prosecutor will succeed in having rewriting presenting the desired appeal because, as the final device of the bill in question, which I hope will become law shortly, it is necessary to narrate the State's successes in the policies of contrast and repression of all the mafias. For these reasons, I declare the vote in favour and convinced of the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the Mixed-Mov GroupPugliaMore.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u84	IN MAY (CoR). Madam President, I am pleased that the rapporteur, Senator Campanella, is here, for whom I know very well the foundations and the commitment he has made in examining this draft law, for which I thank him. I'd like you to listen to me, because I'm going to think about it. The topic under discussion today recalls a theme that has animated research in the most varied disciplines, from sociology to biology, from anthropology to philosophy. Just to mention the latter, two thousand years of speculation around memory have animated philosophers such as Plato, Sant'Agostino, Leibniz and Spinoza, up to interest historians such as Le Goff, who represent our time above all. I quote Le Goff not by chance, because I will talk about it in a moment. A fascinating and important theme, in short, that perhaps deserved much more time and much more consideration (but it is) and that consequently asks us at least two questions: what is memory? What's so important about memory? Memory is nothing more than the ability to receive, store and retrieve information: storage and re-enactment. But memory can be of different types, it can be individual, collective, biological, historical, cultural and in our era even robotized. And what does memory matter? It has - also according to the old Latin adage historia lux veritatis, life memoriae, magistra vitae - the merit of remembering that it is inevitable that, if you forget the past, you repeat the same mistakes. On the contrary, historical memory must be kept alive from one generation to the next, so that the past does not repeat itself in the same way. Well, that said, what the bill under discussion today calls for is the establishment of the National Day of Memory and Commitment in memory of the innocent victims of the Mafia. Why do we need this? Just to evoke? Certainly not. It is because we need to transfer values, that is, we felt that the work, work, life, commitment and witness of the victims we are going to remember represent values that must be protected and safeguarded. Then I return to Jacques Le Goff, who wrote: "History and memory feed on each other, but they do not confuse each other." This was and is a warning, because history is and has been too often manipulated, to give ideological legitimacy to political powers and to celebrate their glories by hiding their nefariousness. Is this our case? Absolutely not. But Le Goff continued: "Alongside the history manipulated by the various powers we must continue to build a historical knowledge based on the search for truth." And what does this historical truth tell us? What does this terrible historical truth of the sacrifice of so many innocent Mafia victims tell us? It tells us that their sacrifice has been in vain; the country is rotten in every order and degree. The day before yesterday, on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), the constitutionalist Ainis testified in a very wonderful way, when he remembered the Milanese politician arrested on the day of transparency, when he reminded us of the champion of the fight against the racket condemned by extortion, or when he reminded us of the magistrate icon of the eco-aphies that the CSM suspended for his relations with the clans. For the rampant corruptions at ANAS, for those in the Finance Guard and in the tax commissions and - I add - for the uncomfortable spectacle of the primaries of PD, for the senseless choice of candidate Bertolaso, accused of corruption, to mayor of Rome. And then again - and I am witness to this - there are also three years in this House, where the violation of rules and rules was the norm. In the light of all this, I have to ask myself and ask myself: do we have - and I also put myself in, along with all those who have not been able to take advantage of the benefit of inventory - the moral legitimacy to ask what we are asking? I use the words of Don Ciotti, whom you have kindly reported in the preface to the bill: We cannot just remember, no matter how much our duty is not to forget. We must transform memory into commitment, denunciation, witness and change. Do we have these credentials? I don't think so. I know that then will come the "save everything" in the concept of omnia Munda Mundis, but as Conservatives and reformists we cannot stand at this game and we will not allow life, history, work and sacrifice of valuable men of the State or unknown Italian citizens to become the fig leaf under which, at little price, you can wash your conscience. We shall abstain from this vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u87	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, we have already seen a few speeches, including the examination of the amendments, on which we have very much appreciated the position of the Government and the House. Speaking precisely of the subject of our debate and the draft law before the House, we want to point out that the establishment of a national day of memory and commitment to remind the victims of the Mafia is certainly a positive fact. Every day, in our country, there is a story to remember: a story full of pain, which tells of lives broken and swept away by the vile hand of those who use violence to gain personal advantages, in a bullying and illegal way. These are stories of men and women who have chosen to be on the side of legality, paying a very high price. I also want to make a nail for family members who have experienced such situations. Every day is a re-emergence of details and memories that still kill: names, photographs, articles in newspapers, trials in courtrooms. Stories of a daily life, of families, of affections cancelled forever. It is a moral duty, for those who remain, to keep alive the memory of those who are no longer there, but it is even more so for the victims of the mob. It becomes a sort of "urgent', for the family members of the victims, to keep alive at least the memory of those who were killed in the name of dignity, honesty and to affirm legality. This day will serve to shame material executioners and senders, will serve to convey a bit of strength and courage to the many magistrates who every day suffer all the difficulties of the fight against organized crime and will serve the guardians of the order, who with bare hands fight against these wild beasts ever more ferocious. Remembering is important, but as someone in this House has already mentioned, it is perhaps more important to have a constant commitment to keep our society clean from mafia cancer. There were about 1,120 innocent victims of the mob who have torn, like a deep cut, over a hundred years of history of this country. They have been the victims of abuse and the mafia's overflow. They are the stories of those who fought and were killed, of those who had the wrong father or who spoke too much and of the many others killed or guiltyly forgotten. There have also been stories that may not have been told, for issues related to a kind of omerta. The Mafia killed Pio La Torre, who inflicted an even more fatal blow on the Mafia, asking - and obtaining, though deadly - what the Italian legal civilization, for a hundred years, had refused to grant, that is, that the Mafia fell under the rigors of the penal code, as a criminal association. The Mafia massacred Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino, who, alive, inflicted decisive blows on the mob, able to give the anti-mafia struggle developments that previously was not even possible to hypothesize. From the dead they animated a mass anti-Mafia movement, which changed the reality of this country. In the fight against the Mafia, it goes without saying that the way we fight it must always be as broad as possible. There are public duties and private duties, there are individual duties and collective duties, social duties and institutional duties. John Falcone argued that the Mafia is a human fact that had a beginning and will also have an end and it will be up to us to try to understand when it will be, as soon as possible. The mafia is made up of changing organizations, able to evolve, to change skin with the change of epochs, to camaleontically hide in the folds and grey areas of society. The fight against the Mafia has become a daily commitment, constant, exclusive and totalizing; a commitment that admits no rethinking or hesitation, a choice of life to be carried forward with a firm and determined spirit, aware of risking life, marginalization and isolation. This is the condition that accompanied the various Giovanni Falcone, Paolo Borsellino, Giuseppe Di Lello and Leonardo Guarnotta. Tommaso Buscetta, a moment before starting to reveal to the judges the secrets of the most powerful criminal organization in the world, had said: I warn you, Judge, after this interrogation you will become a celebrity, but they will try to destroy you, physically and professionally. Don't forget that the account you opened with what we have will never close. Mr. Judge, are you always of the opinion to question me? Of course the answer was yes, a yes dictated by the certainty and awareness that the mafia is like a parasite that consumes society and the lives of individuals, which attaches itself like a leech to any activity that produces money. There is, however, a difference compared to a common parasite: while certain parasites infest their victims and consume them until they die, the mafia is an intelligent parasite, which leaves to its victim the amount of nourishment that it needs to survive and therefore to continue to produce for him, to suck undisturbed the blood of the healthy society of this country, especially the river of money flowing in large contracts. The Mafia is capable of this. No more bowing, Madam President, I ask you on behalf of our entire Group. Enough bowing to the mob; enough with those clear manifestations of the intimidating force typical of the mob power. We've seen some creepy scenes on TV. After life, the most precious common good that the Mafia organizations put in danger and damage is certainly democracy. Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino have certainly impressed a turning point in the country's ability to put the mafia at least at the corner; over the years, moreover, our anti-mafia experts have always argued that the best lesson of legality and therefore of anti-mafia is to make this Republic work: the better the Republic works, at least there is a need for mafia. General Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa said that the state would beat the mob when it would secure as rights what the mobsters bestowed as favors. On the other side, the mobster, there are the words of the boss Pietro Aglieri, who said basically to a magistrate: see, doctor, when you go to the schools and talk to your boys, those listen to you, but when they come out and seek a job who they find? They find us mob guys. History tells us that memory is very important and commitment to remembrance is also important (I spoke of commitment before, Mr President), but both must be kept alive. How would we know about the Holocaust if it was the executioner and not the deportee No. 174517? This applies to the innocent victim of the mob, terrorism and all great injustice. Madam President, in the light of what was expressed in an explanation of vote on the amendments, the contribution of the House and our attention to this measure, I am voting in favour of the Lega Nord Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u90	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, we do not agree with the conclusions reached by Senator Di Maggio, who declared his Group's abstention vote, because we will vote in favour of the measure in our examination. I hope, however, to recall the part relating to the reasons for the intervention of Senator Di Maggio because it was an intervention of great cultural importance and serious content that I, from an exquisitely personal point of view, fully share. I was very upset by the final question that Senator Di Maggio put to himself and to all of us when, at the end of his speech, he asked whether we were entitled, in this House, to adopt such a measure. I, personally, yes, believe that I have this legitimacy because the culture of legality is consumed in our daily lives, with our daily actions and each of us knows how our daily lives are conducted and therefore each of us knows whether or not we have such legitimacy. I hope that my conviction that I am legitimated is shared by all those who, in a moment, will press the button to vote in favour of this measure. You see, recent history has taught us that the mob organization and criminal organizations have a refinement that is sometimes lacking in state institutions. This sophistication meant that this criminal organization, in the moments following the massacre of Capaci, when popular movements were born, spontaneous organizations of contrast to the mafia, believed not to oppose such motions but rather to appropriate them. This analysis has not been imagined by me but, probably also from the documented point of view, has been illustrated by well-known scholars and journalists who have analyzed the phenomenon of organised crime and in particular of the mob. So what did they think they were doing? They thought of making these motions their own and so, in a short time, tens, hundreds of anti-Mafia associations were born. The proof that this analysis is correct is that many people, even in the political world, have used and used such associations to make political careers. I see mayors who make a woman victim of organized crime wear the tricolor strip, perhaps during the procession of a patron saint's feast, and then I read that that same municipal administration, led by that mayor, is conditioned by organized crime. I read that the heroine of the antimafia, so defined by the press and the collective imagination of the Sicilian territory, does business with the assets of the State confiscated from the mafia that it governs, or at least these are the accusations. The land then is extremely mined. Senator Di Maggio is right: be careful. I would have preferred a bill that had introduced into schools, as it once existed, the subject of civic education. At that time, perhaps, there was a need to educate children to conducts that were civic. Today there is no longer this need, but I would have preferred the introduction of a subject that would educate legality. I would have been more satisfied, because I would have done something more concrete. Today we approve of this rule, which establishes the Day of Memory. Let's do it. We shall vote for this measure, but do you think that it is enough to approve this measure so that the Mafia and organised crime can be defeated? I don't think so. It is a symbolic measure, but, in essence, when in Campania, my land, a boy of twenty-five or thirty years old does not have the possibility to perceive any income because he does not find a job and there is no development (it is an abandoned land that of the province of Naples), this subject is immediately the target of organized crime, in the sense that it is acquired to his own organization. When the State is absent and an organization of different kinds and of any kind replaces it, that organization takes root. We have in this House several scholars of organised crime. I am referring to Senator Capacchione who, with sobriety, has always carried out his work of attention to the phenomenon of crime, and of camorra in particular. I would like to ask whether in some way, invantly and unconsciously, not so much with the episode mentioned by Senator Di Maggio of the corruption of the individual politician, but rather as an attitude of economic policy and of the work of our country, it is not we who create those assumptions and those growth buds of organized crime. It is in that direction that we must go. We must not just tell the boy to remember the victims of crime and the mob. We must also give the young people of our country a perspective of future and life, in a beehive of legality. If we don't do this, we turn into that parent (I'm a father too) who tells the son of the rules: retire at ten, don't go on a scooter. Then, however, this father returns at five in the morning, has other women, does not provide for the maintenance of the family. Whatever his father tells him, then, that son will not give him obedience, because he will not recognize the authority to give him orders, dispositions and rules. This morning, as a state, we set rules (as that father told his boys) to remember the victims of the mob; however, if this indication were not to follow consequent attitudes of correctness, I believe that this morning we would do a completely useless job. Nevertheless, since it is necessary, I am voting in favour of this measure by the AL-A Group. [[Applause from the AL-A Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u91	We greet the students and teachers of the Institute including Largo Oriani in Rome, who are today visiting the Senate and attending our work. Welcome and good work to you too! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u94	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I rise to declare our Group's vote in favour of this measure, which we consider to be important and positive. Since today we do not support the thesis that memory is a decisive element in the civil education of a population, especially in a country like ours, so marked and shaken in all these years by the phenomenon of crime. We believe we can say that the measure we are about to take this morning is fortunately in continuity with those more active, more significant and even more living parts of social and civil experiences in all these years have had the extraordinary merit of always keeping the door open - if I may say so - and of never forgetting what should always be the reference point of this Parliament. We must not make the mistake of thinking that, although today the great majority of the main capimafias, the main exponents of the 'ndrangheta and the camorra are fortunately in prison, the battle against the mafias is won. Trouble to lower your guard. On the contrary, we must recognize that, even from the point of view of politics, probably in the course of these years that threshold of attention, even at a particularly emotional stage in the history of this country - for example, in the mid-1990s, after the death of Falcone and Borsellino in particular - was obviously very high, unfortunately with time it has lowered. I think this is a warning to all of us. There was a phase in Italy, precisely, in which, even on the basis of a great popular emotion, politics and institutions, the State, the parties, were able to square together and put in the field processes of self-form and processes related to the historical necessity to beat a blow and to mark an element of fracture and discontinuity. I believe that that threshold of attention, which in years not far away has been very high and significant, unfortunately with time has lowered, as if we really had made the mistake of thinking that the battle was won, and that, precisely, the victory of that battle allowed us to lower the threshold of attention. Perhaps we reflected and investigated little, or at least not enough, about the fact that the mafias instead transformed with great speed and great capacity, from their point of view also with great effectiveness, under our eyes; about the fact that they assumed connotations always different from the past, increasingly pervasive. We have often said, even in this Parliament - and we have also done the same in the committees responsible, in particular in the anti-Mafia Commission - how necessary it was to put in place a reasoning that could recognize the new mafias: mafias often made no more than classic images, no more of wolf and cups, but of uncensored white collars. However, probably in recent years we have not been able, on this phenomenology, to put in place a strategy of contrast as effective as that which the State knew to put on the field fifteen years ago. And I believe that if the establishment of this day and this morning's debate had the effect of transmitting this element to the younger generations and focusing attention on the need for a major study and investigation, it would mean that what we are doing today is not a useless or just rhetorical act and that no time has been wasted. I think we have to do this today and we don't have to do it episodicly. I have never stopped thinking, in fact, that today the contrast to mafias and organized crime must be lived with exactly the same intensity with which many years ago the young generations of this country knew how to interpret the struggle of liberation and rebuild the democracy of this country. I think that the road marked in these years is certainly positive, but unfortunately it has also given itself to misunderstandings and difficulties: yesterday Senator Mineo, in his speech (which I personally very much shared) referred to how some degenerations of the anti-mafia were a fact to confront in all these years. If all this is true, I hope that this debate can be the least rhetoric possible and can, instead, produce concrete and meaningful acts; also because we must never forget (and we are told precisely those who have fought most of all in recent years to keep alive the memory of the innocent victims of crime) that today there is another side of the coin, just as dangerous, dramatic and serious, called corruption. The indissolubility of the struggle and the fight against mafia and corruption still seems to me to be a watchword that we must say very clearly. For all these reasons we shall vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u97	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are dealing with today and which we are about to adopt involves me directly and personally as a Sicilian. I still remember when, forty years ago, I passed the exam of maturity, I arrived in the city of Palermo to enroll in the university. I remember what Palermo was in those years. Personally, it could happen to walk in the streets of the center - not in the desolate suburbs - even in Piazza Politeama or in front of the Teatro Massimo and watch incredible scenes. When there were no incredible scenes, the tragic noise of firearms was often heard in the centre of the city. I myself remember - and sometimes I survive with terror during the night - the terrifying noise of the Kalashnikovs that were used for the first time against the windows of a renowned jewelry center, to carry out a tragic ballistic test (it was the first time that those weapons arrived in Sicily), and then proceed to a huge number of murders. We all know what, in terms of absolute evil, the mafia in Sicily, the 'ndrangheta in Calabria, the Camorra in Campania, the sacred crown united in Puglia and all the mafias in the rest of the country and also outside national borders. We know what they have produced in terms of devastation, inequality, devastation (I still use this term) of consciences, sociality and in terms of diseconomy. We all know how long the list of victims is, starting from 1893 (Notarbartolo murder) and 1909 (Petrosino murder). It's an endless series of victims and murders. Remembering all the names would be almost impossible and would exceed not only the time available to me, but that of all the parliamentary groups. But some names must be remembered: the attorney Scaglione, Peppino Impastato, Piersanti Mattarella, Pio La Torre, Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa and his wife Emanuela Setti Carraro, Rocco Chinnici, Fava, Rosario Livatino, Giovanni Falcone with his wife Francesco Morvillo, Paolo Borsellino, the agents of their stocks, the lawyer Famà and others. Not to mention the tragic and very long series of trade unionists killed by the mafia from 1945 to 1966: a very long list, almost impossible to read. I mention only a few names: Scalia, Puntarello, Castiglione, Azoti, Casarrubea, Placido Rizzotto, Spanish, Bongiorno and my fellow citizen Accursio Miraglia, killed in Sciacca on 4 January 1947. Up to now we have left the initiative of local communities, local authorities and associations the memory every year of the victims of the Mafia, a memory that serves to keep alive in our country the memory, so that a consciousness develops that in every citizen, in every boy and in every young person raises strong the will to say no and to oppose with determination to all the mafias. We know how every year on March 21, the first day of spring, the day that we tie to the memory of St. Benedict and therefore to the rebirth of Europe and the then civilized world with respect to the barbarity of invasions and darkness followed by the fall of the Roman Empire, Libera celebrates the day of memory and commitment, the memory of the innocent victims of the Mafia. Since 1996, a list of about nine hundred names of innocent victims has been read every year in a different city. In that list there are names that give us a very strong emotion; there are victims whose name tells us little, victims unknown to most. But precisely for this reason, it is even stronger the duty to remember them all by uniting them in a single tragic red thread of blood, violence and terror. This year the day will take place in Messina and, at the same time, in many places in our country. And the day of the memory of the victims, which, as I said, will take place in unison throughout the national territory, as always will allow to make alive the memory of those names, of those sacrifices, of those martyrs. In the face of such an important phenomenon, which involves schools, institutions, associations, the families of the victims and individual citizens, I believe that the work done by my colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the work we are doing here today with a vote that I hope will be as broad as possible, because this is a measure that deserves, in the interest of the country - and I use this expression perhaps a little 'austere and desperate - a great deal of sharing. With this law throughout the national territory, at schools, universities, courts, territorial authorities and in all institutions, initiatives can be carried out, also in collaboration with law enforcement agencies, with the judiciary, with business associations, anti-racket and anti-mafia, aimed precisely at creating and cultivating in the public opinion and in the younger generations the memory of the victims of the mafia, what represents their history. It is right that we should not forget, and only with the institutionalisation of this day will another stage be established by the State in the fight against the Mafia. That struggle has already achieved great results: the arrest of the fugitives, the disorganization of the organization on vast parts of the territory, the confiscation of assets, the highlighting of grey areas of contiguity, the institutionalization in our code of 41-a, the anti-mafia code, the establishment of the single justice fund. They're all done. But it is even more important not only to make these things, signals that politics has already given, but above all to stress how anti-mafia has become and can still represent a unifying and characterizing value of our national identity. It is therefore established that in all schools of every order and grade, on the occasion of the day, initiatives will be promoted, within the framework of their autonomy and their respective competences, aimed at raising awareness of the historical, institutional and social value of the fight against the mafia and the victims of organised crime. It is clear, Madam President, how these initiatives will therefore represent not only a mere celebratory occasion, but an opportunity to reflect, deepen and discuss a problem which is unfortunately still topical and, above all, there is a well-founded hope of being able to contribute to promoting among students and young people the feeling of legality and belonging to a homeland that unites all citizens through shared values. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, more than twenty years have passed since the massacres of Capaci and Via D'Amelio which, with the death of Giovanni Falcone, Francesca Morvillo, Paolo Borsellino and the men of their escort, have marked our generation. And today more than ever it is strong in all of us the awareness that in order to be able to fight the mafia culture and its manifestations it is necessary to have a concentration of history and roots and above all to make known this history and these roots to young people. Those who have no memory of their past are destined to an uncertain future and we are convinced with determination that this day of memory will contribute to the birth and growth of a new generation of Italians. This is why the Group to which I belong, the Group of Popular Area, New Right Center and UDC, will vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u100	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, I would like to start with the following words: The Mafia - said Antonino Caponnetto, prosecutor of the Republic - fears more school than justice, since education removes the grass under the feet of the mafia culture. This was the input that prompted me to file the bill that was the subject of joint examination with Senator Dirindin's proposal that we are debating today. More than twenty years have passed since the massacres of Capaci and Via D'Amelio and, in order to be able to fight the mafia culture and its more or less extreme manifestations, it is necessary first of all to have a concentration of history and its roots, and above all to make them known to young people. If memory is among the few values able to ennoble and save from the everyday life, all too often however we forget to recall and honor those exemplary figures that have marked the history of our country in an indelible way, figures such as Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino who, united by the tragic fate of victims of the mafia to which they had fiercely opposed, have both represented an undisputed icon of legality, honesty and courage. All too often the new generations remain in the dark even of the most recent past and, therefore, without even knowing who Falcone and Borsellino were and what they represented. Men pass, ideas remain. Their moral tensions remain, and they will continue to walk on the legs of other men, said Falcone. But, in order for this to occur, one must not forget the sacrifice of these humble servants of the State. Their ideas should reside in the civil conscience and in the work of all those who, by opposing the prevarication and eclipse of consciences, choose every day the value of honesty. We firmly believe that Falcone and Borsellino, killed by the Mafia in 1992, represent the emblem of legality and civil struggle against criminal organizations. They represent - also visually - the ratio that we intended to pursue with the proposed bill, namely to preserve and build a historical memory of the innocent victims of the mafias, as well as the successes of the judiciary working in defense of democratic institutions. Legality goes hand in hand with knowledge and responsibility: increasing a culture of justice and legality allows, therefore, to empower students and students, stimulating their consciences. Let me say that recognizing a national day of memory for the victims of the Mafia as an act in itself - in my opinion - does not mean anything if it is not actually conceived and planned as a moment of reflection and remembrance with concrete initiatives. Now, in highlighting the approval of an amendment of ours which requires schools of every order and grade to promote initiatives aimed at raising awareness of the historical, institutional and social value of the fight against the Mafia, we must also note that our specific proposal to invite the same schools to display an image of Falcone and Borsellino, whose value is also to contribute not to forget, unfortunately has not been accepted, but has been accepted by the Government and the rapporteur in the form of the agenda. It is clear that the posting of an image is a symbolic act, in respect of school autonomy, which, however, we consider very important and full of meanings because it represents an undisputed icon of legality, honesty and courage that, precisely in school environments, should be highlighted. This was really the ratio that the bill under consideration had to have. The initiative, together with the events of awareness and common reflection, are not only a celebratory occasion but an opportunity to reflect, deepen, discuss, to promote among students that feeling of legality and belonging to the same country that should unite all citizens. As far as this is concerned, I am giving this House the vote in favour of the 5 Star Movement Group. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u103	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, when we talk about the Mafia, we only think of one criminal organization and it is wrong. One of the first reasons why I will vote, with the whole Group of Forza Italia, in favour of the measure is that it is correctly referred to mafias in the plural, that is those criminal organizations that are present in various parts of our country. Just remember that the Lombardy Region, in which I live, has indicated the need for a day of memory as the one we are voting on. These criminal organizations are posing and presenting themselves with the same characteristics that characterized for some years, at least in the eyes of those who perceived it, the Sicilian mafia. But it was a mistake to limit it to that. The rapporteur - rightly, I must say - begins in his report with the words: Education on legality is a value. This is the logic that Rocco Chinnici had in mind every time he reasoned that he had to go to all schools. I went every month to Palermo to meet him, having been responsible for his appointment. He went to schools because he felt that judicial intervention would never solve the problem of the mafia. We needed an education in legality, which does not mean merely respect for the laws. Reading the incipit of the rapporteur's report came to mind an extraordinary document - I read this morning and, therefore, I cannot give you the text, but you will certainly find it on the Internet - whose title is: "Educate to legality" which dates back to 1991, if I remember correctly, and is of the Italian Bishops' Conference. I believe that this document should be read and studied in all schools, because it tells us that the mafias are nourished not only by corruption, by non-compliance with laws, by the attitude of oppression towards the weakest and by the fact that the mafias present themselves as criminal counter-powers in respect - for example - of the failure or malfunctioning of civil justice. There is something more. The document, which still represents legality, recalls the behavior of those who, while in public office, reach agreements, without violating criminal law, with the various authorities in order to favor friends and relatives and, therefore, feed that philosophy of aggregation and protection by reason of interests or misuse of power, typical of the mafias. Colleagues, I believe that even Senator Campanella, living in Sicily, has seen as me many people boast friendship with Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino, to have been close to them, or to have contributed to certain developments in the action of the judiciary against the mafia, although they are - in fact - completely foreign people who we had never shared what they said or did. Just remember the skill of Giovanni Falcone, who was wanted at the Office instructions criminal proceedings by Rocco Chinnici. Giovanni Falcone was a civilist and had never done a day of penalty, being occupied in the bankruptcy section first in Trapani and then in Palermo. However, precisely by applying the rules of the civilian and following the path of money, he managed to make the great trial at Cosa Nostra, without even using the interceptions. This means that there was consensus around that operation. From who? Honest people. In fact, it would be enough to read the distinctions, clarifications, assessments and votes at the Supreme Council of the judiciary to see how words did not follow the facts. I shall therefore vote in favour of this draft law for one reason only. I do not believe that through this initiative there is the possibility of a new fight against the Mafia. But I believe that we can educate the new generations at a level that leads to spontaneous rejection, rooted and convinced of the methods of the mafia organizations. 11:45 a.m. (Follows CALIENDO). That is the only way we can eradicate it. Where is the consent in the ZEN in Palermo? Where's the consent? Why is there consent? Because, theoretically, electoral votes always go to one party or another. It doesn't matter which party it is, what matters is that the votes are compact. We have seen over the last 40 years that, during an election, they were voting for one party and, on the occasion of the next, voting for another party, but in doing so they were compact. There is, therefore, control of the territory and family organisations so that it becomes difficult for the judiciary to act. Therefore, it is necessary to eradicate from within the new generations, educated to values that are such that they are no longer shared when they are approached by different organizations, that at least offer them a possible easy gain. That is the logic with which I believe that we must prepare to vote on this measure. And with regard to the amendment that we voted on, I made it a question precisely because it was based on this logic. The logic is: those who are mobsters are not victims, those who participate in the mob culture are not victims. It is a victim who behaves in legality, which - as I said before - is not only respect for criminal law. I am thinking of those who are half-way between one and the other, those who, for their own personal interests, induce people to believe that there is the possibility of getting something through apparently legal methods, but that they are, neither more nor less, the alteration of free competition and what should be the rule of the market, in order to ensure effective democracy. Democracy is due not only to the fact that we are going to vote, but also to the electoral method. If the electoral law does not guarantee effective and proportional representation of minorities, it means that it is not an effective democracy. This is what we should try to reason on together, hoping to do so in schools, because only in this way will we leave our children a different Italy, an Italy in which the judiciary will condemn those who are wrong. But the State will not have any responsibility for not having guaranteed a situation such as to allow those who want to live in the legality of living with freedom. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Campanella and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u106	DIRINDIN (PD). Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues who have helped to achieve this result by presenting and signing the draft laws and, above all, by working in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, starting with the President, whom I thank for her attention and commitment to this measure. Although it is a small measure, a small drop in an area that needs great attention, great commitment and a great sense of responsibility, I believe that it, like many others, can play an important role. In declaring the Democratic Party's strong vote in favour, I would like to focus mainly on some aspects that were not touched upon during the debate, which I followed and appreciated and from which many issues emerged. First of all, I would like to point out that this measure establishes the National Day of Memory and Commitment. First of all, it is the moment of memory and commitment, because the responsibility and culture of legality start also from the memory, respect and commitment that can derive from it, with reference to the innocent victims of the many mafias that in this country intervene daily in the functioning of our systems. It is not another occasion - I would like us to say so - because, if we deal with this measure thinking that it is this, and that is another day dedicated to some event, then I believe that we would immediately have halved and deeply reduced its meaning. This is not just a celebration or a liturgy. The establishment of this day recognizes, in the first place, a decades of experience that comes from the people who have suffered most from the presence of the mafias on the national territory. We only recognise an important experience that has been built over the last twenty years and has grown significantly. I would like to give some element of knowledge about this experience, which many of us know and perhaps only some in part. This day - it is celebrated on March 21, because it is the day when you come out from the long dark and the cold of winter and begins a new season, that awakens nature - wants to be the culmination of a very long journey, made by family associations, groups, schools and many of the organizations that operate at least since 1996, to remember the innocent victims of the mafias. It is a way to renew and build a shared historical memory, in defence of democratic institutions, as the measure under consideration recalls, because the Mafia, as well as killing, weakens democratic institutions. Everyone therefore has a duty to reflect and think about what action can be taken in the field, with a sense of responsibility and commitment, so that democratic institutions cannot be further weakened. I have said that this is not yet another occasion and it is not even a single day, as anyone who has participated in these initiatives over the years knows. The first day of 21 March, which was the subject of the initiative of the family members of the victims of the Mafia, in 1996 was held in Rome and about 2,000 people participated in it. Last year, the last day from memory and commitment was held in Bologna, in the presence of about 200,000 people. Those who were present - and those who want can go to see the footage of that occasion - have had the opportunity to understand clearly how different participation in those initiatives is, compared to many others that are promoted on the territory and that do not receive the same attention and commitment - joyful and attentive - especially by young people. Go and see - who was there will remember it well - the quantity of young people, who, when speaking of legality, participate and commit themselves in a joyful way, but with a great sense of responsibility. We have a lot to learn from these initiatives, we who belong to political groups that very often find it difficult, at this time, to gather the attention of young people. Young people, with respect to legality, put in place initiatives, energies and willingness, to discuss and prepare on 21 March, and only the fact of participating in that experience allows us to understand how important this is. As I recalled, it is not just a day: for many years now 21 March is the culmination of a journey that begins on 22 March and ends on 21 March of the following year, made of a series of initiatives, such as the one entitled "Cento passi" in memory of Peppino Impastato. Some of my colleagues will certainly have had the chance to see the film of the same name, which is reminiscent of its history. "Hundred steps" means that there are a hundred and more opportunities, especially in schools, to reconstruct the history of the innocent victims of the mafia; to understand what the culture of legality means; to understand why the mafias infiltrate the public administration and the economy; because they manage to condition the behaviour of the people and, above all, why we must not resign. I hope that the House, which will probably approve this bill by a very large majority, will also bear in mind what I am trying to make clear, namely that it is not an anniversary if we understand the true meaning of 21 March, and not even the mere mention of the names of the victims, of which we have heard a great deal in this House. Moreover, those who participated in those days know what it means to see tens of thousands of people silently listening for two hours to the list of victims of the Mafia: they do it with respect and dignity, ready immediately after to realize initiatives always to rebuild the culture of legality. But the day of March 21 wants to be, above all, the testimony of what positive can be done to spread the culture of legality. In this regard, I ask you to let me tell you a memory. In 2009 a young girl from the school in Scampia, when she was preparing on March 21 in Naples, said she lived in a difficult reality, where it is not all roses and flowers, and asked why, if there is something good, nobody tells it, why not talk about them too who want to change. This is precisely what associations do: they want, that is, to value what is positive. The problem, in fact, is not only to denounce and remember emotionally and perhaps rhetorically those who unfortunately lost their lives out of duty, commitment or unfortunately for the case. The first problem is to demonstrate that there is an Italy that does not review itself, that wants to network, that wants to build cultural, political and organizational synergies to promote the culture of legality starting from... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u107	Colleagues, please lower the tone of your conversations to allow those who intervene to complete their speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u108	Please continue, Senator Dirindin. DIRINDIN (PD). ...starting, as I said, from the reconstruction of the stories of those who have lost their lives because of the many mafias, as is done in schools in view of March 21. I believe that this measure should help us to reflect so that we do not continue with what has been denounced by many here as a rhetorical attitude or simply a denunciation of what we are actually observing in the long years in which we have reconstructed the history of the victims of the mafias. There is no need to denounce: the institutions already think of this. As a Parliament, we have a duty - as we are doing - to collect an initiative that has started and walks with the legs of the family members of the victims of the mafia. And we arrive after 20 years because, as a Parliament and as a State, we need to value this experience, to say that we are there and that we think it is important to make our contribution and not let civil society alone do it, because otherwise we would have lost the capacity to actually represent its part. Realizing that it is difficult to add anything to what has been said, I conclude my speech by saying that many things have been done in recent years: many measures have already been mentioned on money laundering, exchange vote, anti-corruption because transparency and anti-corruption are also a way to counter the behaviour of the mafias. And we must all be aware of this and we are proud to have managed to contribute to some small step forwards that is not the final one. Someone asked if this measure would change anything. It is certain that it cannot change the situation definitively, but it does contribute to the awakening of consciences; an important awakening to create the commitment of each of us because if the mafias kill, if the mafias exist, if the mafias condition the markets, if the mafias infiltrate the public administration and do business to the detriment of the general interest - we must tell us with great frankness - it is because we do not know how to prevent it. Each of us does not know how to network, build synergies and actually engage to prevent it. It happens because we allow it, because the community does not have sufficient ability to fight them, to fight them and to contrast integrity, good management within public administration and the general interest with respect to the particular interest or even the interest of a small part that wants to impose at any cost its way of reasoning. That is why we need to pay more attention to these issues. We must not think that it is enough to approve this measure. We must remember every day that we have approved a measure to create commitment to legality. That is why the Democratic Party will vote in favour of it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Campanella and Maurizio Romani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u111	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u112	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1894, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Institution of the National Day of Memory and Commitment in Remembrance of the Victims of the Mafia" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Mixed, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, AL-A, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL), LN-Aut and CoR.]] It was established on 21 March as a day of memory for the victims of the mafia, but I hope that the commitment will extend to three hundred and sixty-five days a year and not be limited to one day. [[Applause]] Thus, draft laws nos. 98, 248 and 1832.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u115	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, it seems to me appropriate not to waste this moment in which we have established such an important day without pointing out that while the Senate, with its representatives, is proud to establish this anniversary, in the same Senate some exponent receives some mafia subjects, as reported in an article of the "Corriere della Sera." It turns out that the famous "er gnappa" - perhaps someone will know him, and I do not care to be able to name him in Roman as I am Roman - came every Thursday in the Senate to contact some people as well as to make gifts, because we talk about interceptions, bribes and weekly meetings. Thursday was the day that was set by "squeeze" when he put on his tie and jacket...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u116	Senator Taverna, I'm sorry, but about the news... From a check carried out, there is no access to this Senate by the person indicated by you. TAVERNA (M5S). ...he felt that he was immediately aware that on Thursday... president. Senator Taverna, you cannot, on the basis of a report just mentioned in a newspaper, make such an intervention. It's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u117	President, this is an urgent matter! He set up a day to remember the victims of the mob and on the other side he took the bribes from the mobsters.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u118	You can't say that without proof.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u119	TAVERNA (M5S). Thank you, President. Just memorize this day. What is the meaning... [[Senator Santangelo's comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u120	Senator Santangelo, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u121	SANTANGELO (M5S). President, the video, the video! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The video of what? SANTANGELO (M5S). It's shameful. Take the video off!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u122	The video of what? Senator Santangelo, I call you to order; I give the word and I remove it. [[Live comments from Senator Santangelo on his way out.]] Here, have a seat outside. It's good to get away. CARDINALI (PD). Santangelo out! SANTANGELO (M5S). You're outrageous! You're gonna fight the mob and then you're gonna take the video off! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order. Let it be on the record. [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]] Wanting to exploit this moment, which should be of understanding and commitment, doesn't seem to me... SANTANGELO (M5S). You're shameful and you keep being ashamed! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Senator Santangelo, I have the censure against you; that it be put to the record. SANTANGELO (M5S). You gotta kick me out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Have a seat. CARDINALI (PD). Santangelo out! TAVERNA (M5S). Get the mobsters out of the Senate! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, this moment cannot be disturbed by these interventions. It's an important moment. At first reading here in the Senate we established this Day. Therefore, we reaffirm our commitment, also as an institution of the Senate, to also monitor behaviour and entrances; these are entrances which, I repeat, have not been certified by our control systems.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u124	You have the floor, but I warn you that if you are on this subject, I will take your word for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u125	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking as Senator Commissioner. Since a long time ago the newspapers reported that a subject, Primo Greganti, attended this Palace, I immediately request a verification of the entrances.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u126	You can do it as Senator Commissioner. You don't have to ask. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]] You have to check it out at the quaestor's. Face. [[Applause and comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u127	In fact, I'm announcing it now. I just wish the black out wasn't functional, like Primo Greganti's, and in fact I requested verification as Senator Quest. [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). We're at the stadium! We need to take a look at the curve, too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now let's get back to work. AIROLA (M5S). That's the case. [[Comments of Senators Nugnes and Tavern.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u128	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1870, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 157. The rapporteur, Senator Lepri, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u129	Mr President, fellow Senators, the bill "Delegates to the Government for the reform of the Third sector, social enterprise and for the discipline of universal civil service" represents an important stage of the reform season in our country, regulating and encouraging one of the most important phenomena in our country: precisely, the third sector. Third sector entities contribute, as already clearly stated in Article 1, to the pursuit of the common good, to raising the levels of active citizenship, cohesion and social protection, promoting participation, inclusion and full development of the person, to enhancing the potential for growth and employment. Here there is already the first element to be emphasized. This expression, third sector, over the past thirty years and up to now has been a sociological or economic category, mainly for the use of scholars and operators. With the adoption of the bill it will become a legal category. Third sector are organisations that meet specific and precise characteristics, and only those who demonstrate that they have the law will recognize incentives and facilities, so that the benefits fall in favour of the whole of society. In these thirty years of rapid development, the third sector has been regulated through sectoral regulations, which have undoubtedly had the merit of framing and supporting phenomena of great value - we think of volunteering, social cooperation, social promotion associations - but they have done so in an uneven way, each norm being interested only in a particular type of organization, sometimes originating legal frameworks and tax treatment between them not superimposed and dubious coherence. To attract the attention of some more attentive colleague, I can perhaps use the metaphor of the fingers of the hand and of the hand: so far we have recognized the individual fingers. Now we recognize the hand, made by more fingers but that are part of the hand, able to move the fingers in a coordinated way. Faced with this, the government started the legislative process about two years ago with the aim of establishing a legal framework both civil and fiscal that allows to best deploy the potential of the third sector making the legislation more organic and coherent, to simplify procedures, to make more effective supervisory and control actions aimed at preventing abuse and unfairness. The work carried out in the Chamber has contributed decisively to the outcome presented today, laying the foundations for the legislation, while the work done in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the Senate has made significant contributions to many aspects which will be briefly mentioned below and which I believe make even clearer, consistent and even more balanced the rule that we are bringing to the debate in this House today. Let us now come to the main aspects of the bill. Article 1 defines the characteristics of the third sector: the absence of profit, the pursuit of civic and solidarity aims of social utility, the realisation of activities of general interest. The changes proposed at the Senate then recall the codes that characterize the different families of the third sector, synthesized in the voluntary and free action, in the code of mutuality and in the code of the production and the exchange of goods and services. Starting from this definition, the Government is committed with the delegation to approve the successive decrees on the most important topics: the revision of the entities referred to in Book I of the Civil Code; the reorganization and the overall revision of the provisions relating to third sector entities, including tax and tax aspects; the revision of the discipline in the matter of social enterprise; the revision of the discipline in the matter of civil service. The delegation also covers the system of audits, controls and monitoring of third sector entities, and provides for significant resources. With reference to the work carried out in the Senate, the Government has committed itself in this regard, in addition to what is already foreseen in the text issued by the Chamber, to define the mandatory information in relation to the subjects of book I of the civil code, to be included in the statutes and in the constituent acts. Another amendment concerns the provision to regulate the procedure for direct transformation and merger between associations and foundations. With regard to the areas of activity, the text has modified the version proposed by the House and takes a step forward in rationalising the issue, delegateing the Government to reach a single unified text of the activities of general interest, precisely a single list that, besides representing an element of simplification, goes in the direction of unifying the legislation currently envisaged for fiscal and civilistic purposes, whose non-superpositionability represents an aspect of complication of the current system. This does not prevent the Government from identifying, on the basis of the vocations of the different third sector families, specific areas of activity for some of them. The delegation also envisages the need to deepen the tax aspects, which are currently characterised by too many rules, often specific to each legal form, and which will require a great deal of simplification. Among the interventions proposed at second reading, there are some to protect workers: for example, the obligation to inform and the need to ensure in public contracts economic conditions not worse than those provided for in contracts signed by the most representative trade unions. The text we are debating today then introduces a change in the delegation in terms of entrusting to the third sector, recalling the Community directives. An important forecast is introduced aimed at recognising and enhancing second level associative networks. In the article on voluntary activities, social promotion and mutual assistance, three important changes are also envisaged. Firstly, the provision of specific recognition and valorisation for voluntary organisations; secondly, the establishment of the National Council for the Third Sector, with the overcoming of national observers and a redefinition of the tasks assigned to service centres for volunteering, including in relation to their governance and the principle, clearly stated, of the so-called open door, which guarantees greater democracy. I believe that the article concerning social enterprise is particularly important, because it has brought significant innovations in relation to the already very precise text that the House has given us. The discussion within the Commission has led to the provision that the social enterprise should be fully included in all third sector entities, adopting all the characteristics of this sector, thereby overcoming possible misunderstandings. With respect to the discipline of profits, the Senate's work specifies that the remuneration threshold coincides with that provided for cooperatives with prevailing mutuality and excludes that this possible, albeit limited, distribution of profits can be applied to the subjects of Book I of the Civil Code. This was also a very controversial decision, but it has found - I believe - a definitive point of clarity. Even with reference to universal civil service, three important changes have been made to the text that came out of the Chamber. The first concerns the reaffirmation, which finds its roots in the history of conscientious objection, of the national civil service as connected with the non-armed defence. Secondly, the Senate successfully solves the problem, which is often the subject of judgments in this regard, of the opening of civil service to legally resident foreigners. Thirdly, the centrality of the State in the planning of civil service is foreseen. With regard to the tax issue, the most significant change concerns the forecast of an overall revision of the concept of non-commercial entity. All this goes in the sense of entrusting to the government, as I have already mentioned, the mandate to overcome what I have no difficulty in defining a real jungle of tax rules, which seems less and less sustainable. But very important are also the planned allocations, with new funds, revolving and non-rotary. And I want to mention in particular the new fund, inserted in the text of the Senate, intended exclusively for the subjects of Book I of the Civil Code. It is also proposed, through an amendment that the Government is about to present, to establish the Fondazione Italia sociale, with the aim of supporting, through the contribution of adequate financial resources (especially private, I want to emphasize it) and with the contribution and contribution of high managerial skills, to support the implementation and development of innovative interventions. These and others are less important changes that the Commission's work brings to the attention of this House today. Overall I am convinced that the result that we bring to the discussion of senators is of absolute importance, a great step forward in the regulatory framework, which is not limited to the photography of the existing but has the ambition to be the driving force of a "phase two" of the third sector. After thirty years of impetuous development, today the challenge is full consolidation. To conclude, to the third sector, to the people of millions of people who every day in Italy are fighting, often silently, for the common good goes mine and - I am sure - the gratitude of the whole Assembly and our admiration. Their will, their labors, their intelligence, their compassion prescind from the laws, whether they are good or not. But I am also convinced that to that people, and to all the Italian people, we can get our help, what we can do here these days: a clearer, simpler, easily applicable framework law, with a clear vision, capable of promoting and promoting active citizenship, social cohesion, the well-being of citizens and communities. I am convinced that the proposal we are debating can and will. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u130	I declare that a question has been referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u131	Mr President, we have proposed yet another question, as we have done on many measures, which unfortunately go through this House, which present continuing shortcomings in the process of forming the standard. These are not purely volitionary or party matters. We want to point out that in many measures there are always gaps, that at some point they will come to a funnel that will raise problems. In this case, we are faced with a delegation which we consider to be very broad and absolutely general. Let us remember again Article 76 of the Constitution for which the legislative function cannot be delegated if it is determined by guiding principles and criteria and by absolutely defined objects. We believe that the scope of the delegation, as provided for in the law, will put the Government in the impossibility to respect it, precisely because there is no principle and a specific governing criterion: it will be almost a sort of standard in white, with such a broad delegation that, since there is no indication of the governing criterion, we do not understand where we can go to verify the respect of its limits. It is feared that, then, in legislative decrees, there will be such wide discretion on the part of the Government that the operation cannot be detected or censored in any way. Let's take only small examples, perhaps the ones that can be most significant: in Article 8, for example, we are faced with the statement of a "significant" without it being associated with a "significant" unique. What does "meaning" mean? It is an absolutely generic term, because the signifier could be of minimal relevance. But what is the indication of relevance? For example, with regard to the provisions of Article 8, the term "civil service" is always associated with the adjective "universal" without understanding what is meant by "universal civil service." There is another point on our part, because we believe that some of the guiding principles and criteria are formulated with expressions that offer alternative options, selectable by the same Delegated Government, what is even more dangerous, because here there is no limit of a delegation; at this point, if the option is left to the Government, one cannot but consider it a very large delegation in blank. 12:27 a.m. (Follows STEFANI). And let's remember that the Constitutional Court itself has stated that the free appreciation of the delegated legislator can never become a principle or a governing criterion, as regards the antipodes of tied legislation, such as, by definition, delegated legislation. If the delegated government does not have any constraints, we are no longer talking about a delegated law, but we are giving an immense power to government activity. In our opinion, then - and this is to be added - the time limits laid down for the exercise of the delegation are without univocity. There are problems, in our opinion, precisely because of the lack of respect for the same articles 114 and 117 of the Constitution, because when the agreement between the Government and the unified Conference is requested, for the adoption of legislative decrees, it is not even indicated on what matters it will be necessary to acquire such understanding. If the subjects are not indicated, how will the limits be identified in the decree? What are the limits within which such an agreement may be sought? We also believe that the issue of civil service is completely detached from the context of the draft law delegation, with a total unevenness of context as well. Article 2, which sets out the general criteria and guiding principles, does not even refer to the issue of the revision of the civil service. We also consider it indisputable, even if we are fully aware of the difficulty of estimating to date, when this law is adopted, the financial effects of the forecasts contained in the measure, that throughout the article there are provisions that will lead to onerous effects that go far beyond what is envisaged in the considerations carried out so far. Of course there will be costs. We want to see whether that limit for which there must be no additional burden or expense will be respected. Then we have a doubt, but here perhaps we enter more on the subject: we believe that it must also be noted at this moment, and for the respect of the same norms referred to in Title V of the Constitution, that the provision of a single register of the third sector runs counter to the prerogatives of the Regions protected by the constitutional articles mentioned. We also say this on the subject: there are problems, because we cannot understand the legal nature of the registration itself. Does it have a constitutive effect? Is it advertising and therefore only has a cognitive effect? This may create serious doubts about what this register may be. If nature is not well defined, according to which the possibility of a sanction and discipline is understood, the same prediction of the keeping of that register could be nullified. For these reasons and for the reasons which may be set out in the general discussion, we consider that we do not proceed with the examination of the draft law delegation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u132	I greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo (Torquato Tasso) of Bisaccia and Andretta, in the province of Avellino. Thank you for your presence in the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u133	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a representative per group may intervene on the question referred for a preliminary ruling for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u136	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to comment very briefly on Senator Stefani's illustration of the question referred, which I signed as the first signatory. I was in doubt whether to present it, even in the light of what happened in the Commission: we have, on the one hand, a very philosophical delegation law in its principles and, at the same time, an indeterminate one which, however, contains - although it has failed during the debate in the Commission - the only article in the system, Article 9-a, on which an amendment was tabled in the Commission by the Government. The amendment, in the light of the reflections and speeches made, often even by members of the majority, would have required a rewording and then was withdrawn to have a evolutionary phase in the Assembly. What is this blessed article 9-a? I don't know how it's gonna end, but it's the establishment of what someone called the third sector IRI. I would not have mentioned it if it were not that the rapporteur pointed out that this intervention would come to this House. To me it seems a little absurd that we start a company, which will have a prevalent private capital, and that the state must put a million euros in order to leave. I would then like for each start-up that exists in this country and that has a private nature, as this subject must have, the State would put a million euros. In recent days and months I have read articles in the various newspapers in which a certain Manes described what we find as the content of the amendment presented to the Commission and which will then come to this House. Before I thought it was a journalist who wrote it, then I found out that he is a very friendly entrepreneur of President Renzi and therefore a minimum of doubt about the existence of a conflict of interest that raised it to me. However, we are not discussing this matter today and I call on the Government to think carefully before presenting and using various tricks and then putting in the House what was not voted in the Commission because it had 280 sub-amendments. Today we are discussing the conditions for not discussing the measure. In the light of what was supported by Senator Stefani, I certainly vote in favour and share the question for a preliminary ruling, but I also add what is absolutely contrary to the Constitution with respect to the amendment of future writing by the Government. Article 118, paragraph 4, of our Constitution reads: "State, Regions, Metropolitan Cities, Provinces and Municipalities favour the autonomous initiative of citizens, individuals and associates, for the carrying out of activities of general interest, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity."The argument should be dear to the friends of the center and the left (more or less of the center). But one thing is clear: doing such a subject, we have a centralization or, better, an expropriation of the public or private initiative of the third sector and of that world that has spontaneously developed on the territory, that at one stroke would be centralized and, unfortunately, privatized, certainly not free of charge. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u137	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u138	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u139	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 12 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.36 p.m. and resumed at 12.56).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u140	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u141	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u142	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 1 p.m.17 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.57 p.m. and resumed at 13.17 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u143	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u144	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u145	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) [[Senator Airola's comments.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's check it out. If you have anything to report, you can also report it to the Secretary Senators. AIROLA (M5S). You can see it yourself! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-595.ana.u146	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.19 a.m.
