ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u4	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1324, 154, 693, 725, 818, 829 and 833. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting, the rapporteur carried out the oral report and Senator Tosato put forward a suspensive question on which there was no quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u11	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I assure you that this time they have not even raised their hands. You are in a position not to take the counter-test because it is entirely up to you, but I am obliged, in view of the outcome of the vote, to report it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u12	If we have any omissive acts, I'll order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are now debating in this House was approved last month by the Senate Health and Health Commission, after a long and troubled journey. We are talking about the health measure, which was born of the need to take further measures to ensure greater functionality in different areas, especially those of health care orders and professions, which count more than one million professionals, and clinical trials. In the same way, the objective has been to improve the functionality of the National Health Service and the benefits provided by it, in order to meet the needs of citizens in a more appropriate and qualified manner. Before discussing the measure in question, I would like to focus on something very dear to me, for which I have personally led, and on several fronts, battles that have left me many scars, but I am proud to have fought them and for them also today in this House I continue to fight. What does health care mean? What do we parliamentarians mean, we who have the responsibility to act in defence of the Italian people, when we talk about health services? My thoughts go immediately to the dignity of the human being, made in the image and likeness of his Creator, and to the inviolable rights that make life a precious asset; to the brotherhood in Christ, which requires us not to look at the straw in the eye of the other, who advises us not to display in public the hand that gives hope to those who are more unfortunate, and who even ask us to pray for our worst enemies and for their good; to equality in the aforementioned dignity of all persons and to the protection of their welfare, regardless of a condition of social state, sex, religion or ethnicity. This is because this measure aims to put in place a new reorganization of the existing legislation, which even dates back to the law establishing the Orders of September 1946, proposing a system more adherent to today's requirements and that can ensure its functionality in the interests of citizens. For example, there has been a serious problem for some time, and it is urgent to give an answer as soon as possible. It is the tightening up of the activities and procedures of the clinical trial, which does not allow to adapt quickly to the innovations both technical and procedural and that has also led to a series of critical issues, such as the different types of administrative contract for the trial, different from promoter to promoter and administration to administration, or as the reduced number of centres of excellence in Italy. The text presented here proves to give a response, providing for the delegation to the Government for the reorganization and reform of the legislation on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use, followed by a reorganization and coordination of the provisions in force in compliance with the norms of the European Union and international conventions in this matter, as well as in compliance with the international standards for ethics in medical research on human beings, in accordance with the provisions of the Helsinki Declaration of 1964 and its subsequent revisions. Also with regard to clinical trials, it is also envisaged to identify the requirements of the centres authorised to conduct clinical trials in stages I to IV, which provide for experimentation on persons; to identify the modalities for supporting the activation and optimisation of the centres dedicated to studies, which must provide preliminary elements for safety assessments, both on patients and volunteers, to be conducted according to the methods of gender medicine; to identify the appropriate ways to protect the independence of clinical trials and to ensure the absence of conflicts of interest. This is because any discoveries must be the result of research aimed at the well-being of the community, and not used for the economic purposes of a few industrialists. The text proposes an update of the essential levels of health care, with appropriate therapeutic pathways and access to care in a uniform way, within the National Health Service, and procedures for the control of pain in the labour-birth phase in obstetrics, through the use of loco-regional anesthesia techniques, but we could have foreseen, for example, complementary medical techniques such as acupuncture and moxibustion. In 1996, I myself demonstrated the effectiveness of acupuncture in gynecology and obstetrics as an alternative to the University Hospital of Messina, in the department at the time directed by Professor Clemente Pullè, and later the Hospital federal da Lagoa di Rio de Janeiro. What I have said can be found in the acupuncture Annals of the Argentine school of Buenos Aires, in the acupuncture Annals of the French school of Professor Ngvyen Van Nghi, in Paris and Marseille, and in the complementary medical school in Colombo in Sri Lanka. The focus of the text is on the reorganization of health professions. In fact, we try to start a real revolution in the sector through the creation of new dawns, and the recognition of new health figures. In fact, professional orders are established, such as those for nursing professions, midwife professions, medical radiology health technicians and technical health professions, rehabilitation and prevention, but they are not clearly outlined in training paths. Furthermore, in the geographical districts corresponding to the Provinces, the Orders of doctors-surgeons and dental practitioners, veterinarians, pharmacists and biologists are constituted. It also provides for the establishment and definition of the profession of the osteopath, whose activity is subject to registration in the relevant register, which is only possible for those who hold an enabling degree or equivalent qualifications. The professions of biologist and psychologist are included in the health professions. For the Order of Psychologists the current organizational norms remain unchanged, while the Order of Biologists is included in the register of chemists. The national list of biomedical and clinical engineers is established at the Order of Engineers, with the aim of facilitating the circulation of qualified professionals, with the advantage of having an effective technology to support diagnosis and treatment at sustainable cost. The European Commission has been pressing for further regulation on the profession of biomedical engineer for some time now, also in view of the fact that more than 25,000 companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are present in Europe, employing biomedical engineers and researchers. Increased penalties are introduced in the event of abuse of the health profession or of ill-treatment and aggravating circumstances are provided for for offences committed against persons admitted to health care facilities or residential or semi-residence social and health facilities. With regard to the topic of doping substances, the measure introduces a case of extension to the pharmacist of the penalties provided for the crime of trade through channels other than pharmacies of medicinal products and pharmacologically or biologically active substances considered doping substances. The extension is provided in cases where the pharmacist, in the absence of a medical prescription, dispenses such drugs and substances for purposes other than his own, or those indicated in the marketing authorisation, with the provision of penalties from two to six years of imprisonment and the payment of a fine from 5,164 to 77,468 euros. Further arrangements are also defined for the inclusion of doctors in specialized training within the ordinary activities of the operating units of the companies of the National Health System, with the aim of facilitating the access of young people to the medical profession. Another aspect covered by this measure concerns the rules on pharmacies. The text confirms the prohibition of admission to pharmacy only for the professions of doctor and pharmacist. In other words, they will not be able to operate within a professional pharmacy entitled to prescribe drugs. All other professions, on the contrary, are allowed. In the event that heirs are required to surrender the pharmacy in the absence of university qualifications, the deadline has been raised from six to forty-eight months. One last and no less important novelty concerns the establishment of the profession of chiropractor and its register at the Ministry of Health. The risk that new laws, in such a sensitive area as health, can lead to serious repercussions on the safety and reliability of the organisation of public health is always present and therefore a careful and precise analysis is necessary in this regard. Over the next five years it is expected that there will be a shortage of professional health provision due to the imbalance between the number of doctors and veterinarians in the National Health System who will retire and the number of new graduates in medicine and surgery and veterinary medicine. This requires, therefore, a more adequate and efficient rethinking of our health system, increasingly torn by the continuous cuts in public spending, bearing in mind also the recent decline in life expectancy, which is recorded for the first time in the history of Italy. It must also be borne in mind that the doctor's mission is, first and foremost, a mission to be carried out with professionalism: where it is necessary and right to re-elaborate specialization and skills on the basis of the continuous changes in society, in terms of patient needs and research progress, we must not forget that a good half of the whole profession is represented by the relationship with the sick. Hippocrates teaches us that we must enter the houses to bring you relief and St. Luke himself, as a physician and brother in Christ, was the only one to accompany Paul in the very hard days of the prison, until the atrocious torture that was paraded before him. Also in Leviticus, in particular in the steps related to the treatment of leprosy or other diseases that cause skin alteration, it is evident the importance of an accurate diagnosis. The sick man was led by the priest, responsible for the spiritual, physical and psychological well-being of his own people, in order to keep him under observation, without hastening to issue a negative prognosis, to get rid of him as soon as possible. On the contrary, in our universities, medical semiotics are no longer considered a compulsory subject and have been removed from the study plan. Yet the Bible teaches us that no sick person, especially chronic, must be abandoned to his own destiny, much less eliminated according to a life expectancy based on mere statistical calculations, which all too often does not coincide with actual death. Jesus himself teaches us that life is sacred and does so precisely in that olive grove in which he will be arrested to be brought to the Temple, in chains, like a criminal: he admonishes St Peter, who was trying to defend him by force and violence, reminding him that he is wounded by the sword, by the sword he perishes. A demonstration of true and radical evangelical compassion, which takes place in Italy in a daily hospital lane constantly under staff, where there are no beds, medicines, even gauze or syringes, and where miracles, despite the good will of the last angels who work there, unfortunately no longer take place because of the need to make cash. I cannot help but recall in this House my continuing battles against drug lobbying and the precarious working state of people who should save our lives. I repeat: reorganizing or modernising is right, but the important thing is always to keep in mind that suffering cannot wait and it is my duty as a citizen, as a doctor, as a politician and as a Christian who never turns his back on it, washing my hands and conscience with the conscious lie of a more organized and modern future, I conclude, Mr President, by reaffirming an undeniable truth: in the field of medical organization and modernity must not mean productivity and profit, but must be enslaved to the common good in the name of the only true solidarity, which is the evangelical one. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u14	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Health and Health Commission, who is also rapporteur for the measure, has kindly asked me - and rightly so - to sit at the Commission's benches. In fact, I think it is right that the policy should leave the asphyctic perimeter of a dispute that very often distances us from achieving the objectives and give the community - even plastically if possible - a sense of unity, when conditions are met and when there is a reasonable convergence of views, sensitivity and assessments, which lead to the achievement of the same objective. Well, I believe that the hard work done in the Health and Health Commission goes in this direction and I have no difficulty in giving credit to the President of the Commission, who, as rapporteur, has carried out this work with great balance and with a willingness, which I can define as new, with regard to the acceptance of positions, objections, assessments and concerns, which have been mentioned not only in the general debate, but also through the drafting and submission of amendments, many of which have been approved in the Commission and some of which come to the House for further and more collegial discussion. Well, I think that working system is the most interesting track, as a method: starting from the 12th It makes the mark of a policy that recovers its role, its function and probably, through this recovery, it also applies to repair that short circuit that has been determined over time between the square and the palace. Let us now enter specifically. The journey was long, tormented, rough, tribulated, not without the scoop of the last moment, as my friend and colleague Laura Bianconi will recall, who determined themselves, even in the last legislature, regarding the draft laws related to part of the topics that are the subject of this bill so called Lorenzin (sometimes called omnibus Lorenzin), remaining her, like me, grounded on unexpected and sudden deviations of path: measures approved in the Health and Health Commission by unanimous votes arrived in the Assembly and in the Assembly happened everything. I believe that this time everything will not happen, except the confirmation of an in-depth, detailed, punctual work, which also thanks to the presence of the Government could be carried out by handing over to the Assembly today and - I wish myself and politics - to the country tomorrow an absolutely necessary measure, consistent with the times, measured, balanced, useful for a number of reasons. We enter into the substance with a very rapid path on the aspects which, in my humble opinion, represent the defining points of this bill. I mentioned that it was an omnibus bill: it is no longer such. In the course of the examination, we realized that the measure was very complex and extended to matters which were very contiguous but too important, to the extent that they could not all be dealt with in the same regulatory context. That is why we started with a bill of 26 articles and we come to the Assembly with 14 articles; some of them introduce additional rules and then there are several proposals for removals of subjects that I believe we will deal with soon and better because they relate to very important issues. There are only two of them: food safety and veterinary safety, which are strong points in the legislative action supporting a regulatory system that is functional to the needs of safer health and to the achievement of greater and better health protection objectives. Article 1 provides for a delegation to the Government on the reordering of the rules on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use. I have been a fervent censor of delegations to the Government; I have been so because very often they have been undefined delegations, wide and wide, which have brought, then, not a few surprises. This is a "palettata" delegation, as they say in jargon, well circumscribed, where the function of the Government is identified in a precise and precise manner. I believe that it goes in the direction of simplifying, in a certain way, the rules on experimentation, but always guaranteeing - indeed, more and better than before - the necessary requirements for that experimentation to lead out of conflicts of interest. Through a better declination of the principles of transparency, the aims of an experiment emerge which, of course, must serve primarily, decisively and clearly, the achievement of new systems of therapy that agree with the progress of medical and pharmaceutical sciences. The reference, in Article 1, to the procedures for conducting testing systems also in guaranteeing gender medicine, I believe confirms what this House has repeatedly said - not only in legislative measures but also in other acts, such as motions and questions, which are parliamentary prerogatives - that is to say the principle of the necessary and better definition of gender medicine as a prerequisite for greater quality and guarantee. Again, in Article 1 there are extraordinarily important words recovered from the vocabulary of the legislator with a concrete declination, which is not so random or suspended in the hope and desires but is implemented through precise and precise indications addressed to the Government for the delegation. These are words such as independence, absence of conflicts of interest and transparency of acts. It seems to me quite a bit. As far as Article 2 is concerned, I think it is a bit of a time mirror. Finally, it is possible to introduce painless childbirth into the essential levels of care: a conquest of civilizations. With regard to Article 3, I think it is the most discussed, the one around which the interests and attentions, sometimes convergent and sometimes profoundly divergent and different from the discipline of professional orders, have been concentrated. Colleagues and colleagues, the debate on professional orders has been hard, unresolved for several decades. We need to take a step forward and take a decision that we have taken in the Health Commission. In front of the crossroads that separates the dissolution of professional orders - a decision that would have put us on the register of those who believe that professional orders are an element of impediment to the development of the better and greater competition within the world of the professions - from the road that we have chosen because more convincing and adequate than the actual needs, namely to return to the professional orders - and in particular to the professional orders of the sanitary functions - their publicistic function, we have taken this decision in the awareness that the critical point of this analysis was not in the ideological bottlenecks - yes orders, no orders - but in the finding that the reference legislation of professional orders is dated 1946. Colleagues and colleagues, 70 years ago the decree No 233 of the Provisional Head of State was approved. Water has passed under bridges since 1946. A world has changed and we have demanded that in these 70 years orders continue to decline their advertising functions, inspired by that absolutely inadequate, incomplete, inexpensive and outdated regulatory system. It is clear that this regulatory framework could only result in insufficient work orders and sometimes even a function that has betrayed its initial prerogatives. I believe, however, that those prerogatives have been recovered in a precise way. Do you know why, colleagues? For a simple reason. The law clearly and unequivocally states that orders are non-economic public bodies and act as subsidiary bodies of the State. The term "auxiliary" was used before, while today we are talking about subsidiary bodies, based on the precious principle of subsidiarity that, in the vertical decline of tasks, from the State down to the territory, guarantees more and better, in the sector we are examining, the needs of the citizen. Through the supervision and control activities and the tasks detailed in Article 3, in relation to the training paths and the verification that those same paths are followed with punctuality and diligence by the members of the register, the conditions of a guarantee on quality, appropriateness, effectiveness and efficiency of professional performance are determined. This is an absolutely important fact. In addition to this, there are aspects of considerable importance, which have represented a shadow - as it were - on the function and autonomy of professional bodies. The disciplinary action, until now concentrated in the same representative body of the profession, the governing council, from tomorrow, with the approval of this bill, will be entrusted to two distinct and distant moments, removing the spectrum of conflicts of interest, of the lack of transparency and of a disciplinary function that diminishes, until it is canceled, for reasons driven by the logic of the corporation, which has the upper hand over the publicistic function. All this will not happen anymore, because there is a separation between the judicial function and the investigative function; it seems to me absolutely not a small thing. I do not dwell on the most important aspects, which I could still highlight in relation to Article 3. I would just remind you that, with regard to the tribulated path of the Senate Act No 154 in the previous legislature, which provided for the establishment of 18 professional albums, we have done an essential restyling, punctual and precise. Colleges of nurses and midwives are transformed into orders. I'd like to report a semantic fact. In 1946 there was a distinction only for different training courses: the former had a course that did not include a degree, the others (doctors, pharmacists and veterinarians) had a degree instead. Today everyone has a degree and everyone is rightly classified in orders. There is also the transformation of the College of Medical Radiology Health Technicians into the Order of Medical Radiology Health Technicians and the health and technical professions of rehabilitation and prevention. So within this Order the profession of health care assistant converges. I believe that it is a modernisation that regulates, points out and specifies, but it is not a plethora in relation to the proliferation of new orders. Another point that has been controversial in some respects concerns the establishment of the Order of the profession of osteopath. I immediately clear up the debate which you have also heard outside this House, which is insufficiently justified, even from the point of view of substance. The Commission 14a, in expressing its opinion on the draft law, expressly states that the professional figures of osteopath, acupuncturist and chiropractor, of which regulation is envisaged, are already foreseen in some European countries with a level of qualification ranging from three to four years of university training, to more than four years. Here too, let us clear the field of misunderstandings; there are no attentions and cares for some and distractions for others. There is a need to give guarantees to the citizen because the bill has a central element in its objective: to guarantee the effectiveness and efficiency of the citizen, protecting him from the point of view of public health. It is not possible that there are professional activities that are not regulated and recognized because - attention, I am also addressing those who today achieve this goal - obtaining recognition means assuming responsibilities in terms of declination of principles of appropriateness and quality and I believe that this has happened. I conclude, Mr President, with two quick references to the expected and necessary transposition of Article 102 of the single text of health laws, which essentially provides for the possibility of carrying out activities in the pharmacy other than those of the doctor, maintaining substantially the will of Frederick II, separate dispensation activities from that of prescription, because the comparative risk is lurking. However, health professions with no legislative powers are allowed to carry out their activity in the pharmacy. This means that the law on the pharmacy of services is implemented. I believe that this bill is adapted to the country's expectations regarding balance and its absolute compliance with the needs of the times. In this respect, I believe that it can also be assessed with the necessary attention from this House. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u16	We greet a delegation from the Representation of the European Parliament in Italy who is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u17	Dear President, Senators, Senators, I rise to speak on the bill on which we are reflecting and reasoning after listening very carefully to the speeches that have preceded me and that have highlighted all the characteristics of this bill, today presented and debated in the Chamber under the heading "Provisions in the field of clinical trials of medicinal products, the reorganization of the health professions and specialized medical training, food safety, animal welfare, for the promotion of prevention and correct lifestyles." This measure contains rules that refer to different thematic areas, even if linked by a common red thread: they all form part of the many areas that characterize the health and health of our country. My reflection and strong support for the entire bill are, however, directed to the numerous articles dealing with the subject of health professions. Finally, after a period of much more than ten years, we have reached, on the one hand, the reorganization and the novelation of the norms that concern the models and structures of evaluation, validation and representation of the health professions; on the other hand, to give equal recognition and dignity also to numerous health professions already regulated with specific profiles outlined and formalized with specific decrees from the Ministry of Health and that, for over twenty years, are formed in universities through three-year, five-year and master's degree courses of first and second level. These last health professions, however, are still inopportunely maintained without their own professional records, or with professional records included in the college structure, rather than in order. The reordering and reporting of the rules inherent in the health professions and the models and structures of their validation, evaluation and representation can be fully defined as a further step forward not so much and not only for the more than 1.2 million health professionals operating in our country, but also for the Italian and European citizens who benefit from their professional services and their care commitment. The long-awaited reform of order in health care leaves behind, finally, a winding and rough path made of stop and go, hopes and bitter disappointments made even more incomprehensible for the acclaimed evidence of how much the pre-existing and current ordering plant needed a broad redefinition in the contents, in the forms of participation in the vote, in the models of internal governance (both at local and regional and national levels), in the relations with the different institutions and with their professionals, in the contacts and in the network of relations with the community and with the individual citizens, who become actors in the management, through mediation, of the eventual and hopefully rare litigation. However, these are not the only positive elements included and contained in the draft law; equally important are also other and further aspects that with the measure in question, unanimously approved by the 12th Senate Commission, they bring our country even closer to the European Union, as they facilitate the implementation of the arrangements of two recent legislative decrees. I refer to Legislative Decree No 38 of 4 March 2014 implementing Directive No 24 of 2011 of the European Union on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare, as well as to Directive No 52 of 2015 of the European Union, including measures to facilitate the recognition of medical labels issued in another Member State; and to Legislative Decree No 15 of 28 January 2016 implementing Directive No 55 of 2013 of the European Union, the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directives No 15 of 28 January 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. 36 of 2005 and 1024 of 2012, on administrative cooperation through the IMI Internal Market Information System. In both directives, fully transposed by our country with the aforementioned legislative decrees, a significant role is given and recognized to the health professional bodies and the functions that these bodies will have to carry out in favour of citizens precisely for their role as non-economic public bodies acting as subsidiary bodies of the State in order to protect the public interests, guaranteed by the law, connected to the professional exercise. Legislative Decree No 38 of 2014, in Article 5, provides that patients from another Member State of the European Union are entitled to information on the supervision and evaluation of healthcare providers and on which of them are subject to standards and guidelines for therapeutic options on invoices, prices and fees, on the authorisation status of professionals, their insurance coverage, professional responsibility or other means of personal and collective protection. Legislative Decree No. 38 of 2014, Article 7, also provides that active cross-border health care contact points shall also provide information on health care providers and their right to exercise or restrictions on professional activity. Finally, in Article 11 of the legislative decree in question, it is stated that Italy undertakes to ensure that information on the right of professional practice of health professionals registered in national or local registers established in the national territory is, upon request, deposited by the other Member States of the European Union. On all these matches, professional bodies play a fundamental role in supporting the rules that the State has in place. Moreover, Legislative Decree No. 15 of 2016 defines, in Article 4, as a regulated profession the activity or all the activities the exercise of which is permitted only following registration in orders or colleges or in albums, registers and lists kept by public authorities or local authorities, if the registration is subject to the possession of professional qualifications or to the verification of specific professionalism. In specifying that health-related activities are regulated in cases where the possession of a professional qualification is a decisive condition for the purposes of the remuneration of the related benefits or admission to reimbursement, Article 8 (a) defines that professional orders or colleges shall inform the competent authorities of all other Member States, by means of an alert through IMI, of measures restricting or prohibiting to a professional, even on a temporary basis, the total or partial exercise in the national territory of such health professions. At this point it is clear, therefore, the fundamental role that health professional bodies will have to play in favour of citizens-patients with regard to data, information, the competences of their members and the guarantee of professionalism of which they must possess. It is equally clear that the uniform application of order rules to all health professions will provide and give greater guarantees to all citizens, as well as to registered professionals. I think it is important to stress, at the end of this speech, that the professional bodies are given the will of the State and the professionals to give themselves clear, transparent and linear rules for a professional exercise of high quality and guarantee towards their caregivers, and that these bodies are and will be fully self-financed by the professionals themselves. A further contribution of the same to the good performance of the health system as a whole, without additional burdens for citizens and institutions. That of the orders and professionals enrolled in the books is, therefore, a commitment in favour of the entire social community, which can count on solid, attentive allies to combat professional abuse, fiscal and administrative opacity, professional self-referentiality and also, on the other hand, to support and verify the constant updating of professional skills, the maintenance of knowledge and skills through the contribution provided to the institutions for the definition of needs and training content. A great objective, therefore, to ensure appropriate and relevant responses also to the new and emerging health needs of citizens and to preserve the huge and fundamental heritage of values, knowledge, scientificity and solidarity that underpin and inform our National Health Service. For all this, I hope that the draft law will be approved firmly today when we examine it. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bianconi and Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u18	Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u19	Mr President, I would like to refer to the speech made by Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri on his satisfaction with the work he has done in the Health Commission on this measure. I believe it is a demonstration - if ever needed - of the necessity and opportunity that the Government does not use, as often and willingly does, a muscular action to take or leave, especially proposing so-called omnibus measures. In fact, as the Commission considered appropriate - in agreement with the State Secretary for Health here present - certain parts of the measure were removed, not because they were not worthy of attention, but because they absolutely needed an in-depth examination apart. I am talking about food safety and veterinary safety, so much mentioned in the previous days with regard to the protection of the famous products made in Italy, but important in particular in relation to the guarantee of food safety for citizens. Therefore, from now on, we should take advantage of the example set by the Health Commission in order to avoid, on certain issues, making a majority and opposition speech, in order to try instead to reach the best measure, entering into the substance of the matter. The measure that comes out of the Commission is in fact largely modified in substance with respect to the bill proposed by the Government. It is appropriate, since there is so much talk of Parliament (and the Commission has demonstrated its possibilities), that Parliament and Parliament should also take up their duties. I hope that the transition to the House of the measure will have, as happened in the Health Commission, a broad sharing, given that there has been wide discussion and wide participation. There has never been a majority position that has overlapped or crushed the opposition's positions; there has been a great deal of hearing of all the people concerned, and above all (and I believe this is the most important aspect from the political point of view), despite sometimes even excessive demands from - let us call them - lobbying, the Commission has adapted its decision-making autonomy and, after hearing all, has decided in the most general interest and not in the particular interest. I believe that this is the fundamental and most important political aspect, which is useful in the near future in order to ensure that the Commissions - and the Health Commission has witnessed this - enter into the substance of the issues in the most general interest and not in the particular interest. The measure is certainly not the best of all. I remembered before we started from some measures of 1946, and it is clear that the world has changed also in the field of health and in the professions; therefore we must recognize what are the novelties, the opportunities and above all the guarantees regarding the citizens and in particular the patients, so that they know to whom to turn with guarantees from the power of the State. That is the fundamental point. I believe that in this last piece of legislation - and we shall see how the referendum is going - the problem of bipolarism and, above all, the problem of bicameralism give great satisfaction, because if something has to and can be changed it is done in the most general interest, as the measure in the Commission has been able to do. I thank the members of the Commission for their active participation. This is one of the measures for which, in my personal capacity, I am more satisfied with the way we have discussed it and the point at which we have arrived. Congratulations and good work to all of you. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u20	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u21	Mr President, this draft law contains complex and diverse issues which, as Senator Zuffada reminded us, we have examined in the Health Commission in a very analytical, in-depth way, including through a participatory process and the hearing of many stakeholders, which has led us to the formulation of highly anticipated provisions such as the reorganization of professions (on which I will not go because there are colleagues who have done so and will do it better than I do), or principles such as the identification of ways to protect the independence of clinical trials, the absence of conflicts of interest and the independence of the investigator. In addition, Article 6 provides for the involvement of offences against persons in health, social and health facilities, residential or semi-residence. It is unbearable what is returned to us too many times from the news. In the eyes and hearts of all the tragic images of elderly people mistreated in health or social health facilities. This article 6 is really of great importance. On the other hand, I will focus on the issues that are most important to me, such as gender medicine. For a long time, the difference between men and women has been ignored or considered a secondary factor in the development of new pharmacological solutions and in the identification of treatments and forms of disease prevention. The prejudice that the woman's body is equal to that of man has pervaded medicine and is hard to die. This prejudice still affects a large part of medical and pharmaceutical research. The results obtained in man are uncritically translated into the woman, according to a serious methodological error that led, we must not forget, to two great tragedies: that of thalidomide, which resulted in the birth of focomelic children, a question still under discussion in Parliament, waiting for a just and dignified solution that we hope may arrive soon, or that of diethylstilbestrol, an estrogen that was given during pregnancy and that could cause complications and malignancies in children. Adopting a gender perspective in the field of healthcare and pharmaceuticals means redesigning treatments, including explicit gender objectives through prevention programmes, training of medical staff, equal access to health services, means changing the bases of research and clinical trials by providing that women and men participate in it with an adequate presence. The development of medical research and training in this field is very recent and rather slow. For this reason it is particularly important that the 12th Commission has integrated the original draft law by providing a specific reference to gender medicine in the delegation to the Government for the reorganization and reform of the rules on clinical trials. Article 1, as amended by the Commission, in delineating the principles and guiding criteria of the delegation specified in point (c), that the identification of the modalities for supporting the activation and optimisation of clinical centres dedicated to phase 1 clinical trials, both in patients and healthy volunteers, should be conducted with a methodological approach of gender medicine. There is now a widespread belief that a scientific study is necessary of the fact that women and men have different pathologies or different symptoms of the same pathology throughout their existence. The knowledge of gender differences favours, in fact, a greater appropriateness of therapy and a greater protection of health for both genders. Although there are significant differences that affect drug metabolism differently in women, compared to men, a large part of the molecules, such as some psychodrugs, have not been tested on the female population. I skip a few arguments and reserve the right to deliver the report, but I want to remember something very important. This law takes note of these novelties and, with Article 2, introduces an acceleration in the very delicate field of childbirth-related pain, a field historically full of symbolic meanings. Article 2 provides, in fact, the updating of the essential levels of assistance regarding the performance of pain control in childbirth, including the performance of pain control in the labor-birth phase also, but not only, in the use of techniques of loco regional anesthesia, without prejudice to the discipline of informed consent and freedom of choice of the giver. The 12th Commission has specified that the updating of the LEAs must take into account the specific needs of gender medicine, providing appropriate therapeutic pathways and access to care in a uniform manner within the National Health Service. The measure before us is, therefore, a first important step forward in the affirmation of women's rights, in the affirmation of women's difference as a value also in the fundamental field of prevention, disease and treatment. The spread of analgesia will certainly lead to a contraction of the caesarean parts, bringing it back to national average values. Moreover, the greater diffusion of advanced techniques of anesthesia will result in the reduction of the time spent in childbirth and newborns. Gender medicine is, in fact, a pillar in the construction of innovative health systems based on the idea of appropriate care. Women's health is the paradigm of the state of health of an entire population and represents the litmus test of equal opportunities in a relevant area, even from a constitutional point of view, such as health. Mr President, I ask for permission to hand over my speech to the documents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur for the excellent and patient work she has done in the Commission in many months of listening to the many professionals and associations in the health sector. It was absolutely necessary to give order, transparency and safety to both operators and patients, especially after the introduction, in the last twenty years or so, of the innovative health professions. Moreover, there was an absolute need for an overall reorganization of the discipline of professional orders. Precisely for the respect that is due to the people who need care, there was a need for an increase in the penalties for those who abuse the profession: it is necessary to reassure the patients but also the many, many professionals who every day carry out their work with dedication and self-denial, making sure that our health care, and we can say it with pride, can still be among the best in the world. For this reason we have the forecast of penalties that can be increased from a third to half of what is provided for in Article 348 of the Criminal Code, in the matter of abusive exercise. Another important signal of great attention to the most fragile people is the amendment of Article 61 of the penal code in the matter of aggravating circumstances, which allows to punish more severely those who commit crimes to the detriment of persons admitted to health facilities or residential or semi-residential health partners. Let's think how many times we grieve or have saddened for news reports about disabled boys and girls welcomed in residential or semi-residence centres; or elderly people welcomed in nursing homes and sometimes mistreated, as we hear from the facts of the news, when instead they would need more assistance. As Senator Granaiola has just pointed out, but I would like to return to the issue by touching on other aspects, one of the most significant innovations introduced in the Commission during the examination of the draft law, on which I would like to focus my attention, is the explicit reference, in Article 1, to gender medicine. On the other hand, it could not but be so in a Senate Assembly so colorful of pink. Finally we were able to give a different touch! The guarantee of a methodological approach to clinical trials based on gender medicine is a fundamental step in the health universe and aimed at organising differentiated therapeutic approaches that can take account of biological and sociocultural differences between men and women. In this way it will be possible to guide specific pathways for women, including in the field of medical research. The publication of the Notebook of the Ministry of Health of 22 April last is part of the perspective of developing an appropriate reference context aimed at giving the importance it deserves to the gender dimension. Biological and socio-cultural differences between men and women affect the incidence of diseases, clinical presentation and the effects of therapies, representing an interesting point of importance. Therefore, the gender perspective, as already highlighted in the 1990s by the Fourth World Conference on Women, is to be included in a political choice, especially with regard to physical and mental health, since medical research was mainly based on men. Gender, in relation to the most recent European health policies, has been considered by the World Health Organisation as an essential element for the promotion of health, in the direction of the development of differentiated and specific therapeutic approaches for women and men. I understand that I have to conclude, but I cannot help but reflect, Mr President, on the psychic balance of women - then I will deliver the full text of my speech - which feels the effects of her complex physiology, especially at certain times. Let's think about postpartum and menopause, but let's also think about the problem of depression that in the course of women's lives has an almost double incidence compared to men. I would also like to mention another emerging pathology that involves girls and young people in particular, which concerns dietary behavior: let's move from anorexia to bulimia with data that are extremely worrying and that must be cared for. Still, if the life expectancy for women is higher than that of men, the quality of life at some point is worse and this is evident especially after an age group. The quality of life is far worse, precisely because women have taken care throughout their lives of a care service to the family, children and parents, trying to reconcile them with the problems of work. Finally, but not least in order of importance, let me recall with great satisfaction, President, the amendment to Article 2 of the bill that finally provides for the extension of a practice to the whole of our country. Several times we have pointed out that the health response is uneven in our country and so it happens that in some ASL women are assisted, if they require it, in the stage of preparation and labor delivery, by a possible analgesic action. But this happens only in some ASLs, while now, with the inclusion and sharing of the Assembly of this norm, as Senator Zuffada - whom I thank for his intellectual honesty - has said well - will be possible throughout the country. This is because in the Health Commission we have worked together, as in fact happens very often, comparing ourselves with great intellectual honesty and we have unanimously approved this rule that makes our country grow also from the point of view of the genre. I hope that this House will be able to approve this measure quickly, because it is certainly a good signal that we give first of all to patients, to citizens who ask for health answers, but also to the many professionals who work every day. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] I ask the Presidency to be able to deliver the full text of my speech, so that it can be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u23	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u24	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u25	Mr President, I take for granted the appreciation of the work done by the Commission and the fact that the text has been fired unanimously is the best expression of a synergy and harmony that has been achieved beyond the various political affiliations. President De Biasi of this new unity must be acknowledged, but it is not that this measure solves the problems, which are still many, so that the National Health Service can be even more efficient and, above all, can be compatible with the financial resources allocated. I do not want to appear to be an opposite, but I keep saying that all the waste and waste that state health management determines is money stolen from the sick and the possibility of increasing and improving care. On the other hand, it is well known that this aspect, apart from personal convictions, is neglected, as if the State, which is the depositary of a higher ethic of the ends, could go on unpunished to waste and waste, without being censored or burdened by this on the less well-off part of the population. How can I forget the ticket season? How can we forget that health is the third item of expenditure and, therefore, with its EUR 110 billion, it represents the third burden on the state budget? There's something that's not working and we should be worried about. Before me, my colleagues have made some remarks on the inappropriateness of certain practices, on the phenomena of malasanity and harassment of old people and children who bounce from the news, as well as on the need to develop new therapeutic protocols for pathologies that are not adequately supported by the national health system today. All these remarks are not a cause, because they are not born from the wickedness of the legislators, nor from the randomness, so the reflection I would like to calmly make in this House is that one should ask why our health system, which often, in a self-referential way, we consider to be among the best in the world, continues to produce tears and blood for those whose income is above a certain threshold, who see themselves practically offering services for emergencies and emergencies only, being all the rest subject to the payment of the ticket or the whole supply. It is a system that continues to do debt and that sees some regions (some are better, others are less good) struggling to guarantee, first of all, the free choice of the citizen. The so-called reform De Lorenzo had the great merit of allowing every citizen to choose the professional and the place of care. Subsequently, Minister Bindi, with Legislative Decree No 229 of 19 June 1999, limited this exercise, for the non-state part, to the determination of contracts, which, dear Undersecretary, were used in some regions to surreptitiously mislead users obliged to use only public structures. Without the principles of competition and competition, we had a more poor service, because customers were assured beyond the quality and efficiency of the service. This is a system that affects the citizens. If we do not remove the amendments which, unfortunately, Minister Bindi made to the legislative decrees No 502 of 1992 and No 517 of 1993, there will never be competition within our health system. And as where there is a private monopoly there is the law of profit (which must not be confused with profiters), where there is a public monopoly there is the overflow (let me use this term) of those who, having the guaranteed salary, being paid at the bottom of the list and seeing all the debts they make, punctually every year, give the best of themselves when and how they want. We need to think about architecture and these mechanisms. Instead, we continue to complain and it is a solidarity race between those who are the best and those who are the least. Maybe I look less good because I put the knife in the plague, because I've been living on my professional skin, for 35 years, this inequality. I say this not to protect widespread interests of a category, which are also legitimate. Attention. I say this, dear Undersecretary, because if the system does not come to enter a fair competition between state and non-state areas, placing at the center of attention the citizen and his possibility to choose the health care and the professional, we will have a Italy at two speeds, in which in the Centre-North you are obliged to use the state structures (of course we oblige those who do not have the full pocket, because those who have the full pocket do not care of the obligation). All this, Mr Undersecretary, in a health system in which the State divides the Health Fund not taking into account the different production of wealth of the regions. A Lombard citizen spends 1,860 euros, corresponding to the capitarian share, and he loses another 550 euros in his own pocket. A citizen of Calabria spends 1,860 euros and has the possibility to put 150 euros in his pocket. These 400 euros of difference, which represent the gap that we cannot fill, are not recognized by the State, so we have the Rogue Regions, which are those that must fry the fish with the water, and the virtuous Regions, whose population can compensate by its own means and with its own resources to the deficit of the system. When are we going to have such a debate here? I complimented the ritual and offered some clear examples, once again, to the reflection of the Government and my authoritative colleagues of the 12th Commission. Let me say that there are two things wrong with the draft law when we examine it. There is a material error, which I would ask the Government to remove and which I believe has also escaped the Commission, in the norm with which we have, after 50 years, that biologists can finally enter the health professions - it has been half a century: I highlight it to make colleagues understand how it works and how fast the system is - instead of writing the National Council of the Order of Biologists has been written the Council of the National Order of Biologists, which is different. The other thing that is not right is one of the new health professions that are recognized, namely chiropractors. It should be foreseen and specified, even if it is a delegated law, that as with other health professions, chiropractors must also obtain a master's degree and I also believe a specialization course, because for all other professions entering the health dimension the maximum of training and specialization is provided. I therefore start to conclude: health is neglected, because when one has it, he does not care about it, and he begins to worry about it when it fails. I believe that our task would be to care for everyone's health, with a system based on efficiency, productivity, competence and merit. Well, we need a flexible system that guarantees the free choice of the citizen and that also guarantees another type of financing, which is the one with benefits. In fact, today, with the share per capita we prescind from giving resources to those public structures that deliver performances of greater complexity and of better quality. We have already introduced, in the recently passed financial law, the criterion for all hospitals to be parametrated with payment at a fee. We extend this criterion everywhere, because it must be financed by those who produce and who deliver quality performance, who is merged and chosen by the user. We cannot continue to have 94 hospitals in Campania and 106 in Sicily, because that - let's say - is the emblem of the politician on duty, who exhibits the zonal hospital as the achievement of a purpose. Those are useless and dangerous hospitals and closing them means creating poles of excellence and I believe that from these classrooms rules should be enacted such as payment to performance, which induce these hospitals, which are shelters of nothingness, to close. I would like to conclude with an example, by addressing my colleague, Mr Bianco. If we paid the Cardarelli hospital in Naples for performance, despite the stretchers outside the door, the hospital, paid to DRG, would close on June 30. Imagine the waste and waste in the largest hospital in the Mezzogiorno. Continuing to pay him on the list, the Cardarelli produces 100 million euros of debt per year, whoever goes to manage the Campania Region, and those 100 million are stolen from the poor people. [[Applause from the AL-A Group (MpA)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u26	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u27	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that in the text of the measure approved by the 12th The Commission is undoubtedly finding positive news and, as some have pointed out, long-awaited, since 1946. For example, having implemented the concept of gender medicine, which is now the universal heritage of the scientific community, introducing rules on clinical trials and ways of reviewing LEAs. And, with regard to the first two articles, it is worth stressing the right spirit of simplification that goes along the subject. As for the health professions, the transformation of the Collegi into Orders and the recognition of the professional role, with the establishment of Orders and Albi, of some health figures that play an increasingly important role in the protection of the health of citizens: I am referring to biologists, psychologists, chemists and physicists and the passage of these four professions under the supervision of the Ministry of Health. But also the establishment of new professions, such as chiropractor and osteopath, and the incorporation in the Order of Medical Radiology Health Technicians, of technical health professions, such as those of prevention and rehabilitation, which do not yet have Professional Albiums although they are regulated. Finally, the establishment, in the Order of Engineers, of the national certified list of biomedical and clinical engineers is certainly an important fact. These measures certainly go to protect professionals, but above all, and that is what we should be most interested in, the citizens, who benefit from their services in a safe and secure way. I also believe that it is a fundamental step forward to have included in the text that we are discussing the draft law No 693 which I tabled at the beginning of this parliamentary term. This proposal is intended to amend Article 102 of the single text of health laws, so as to explicitly allow the practice of other health professions within the pharmacy, with the obvious exception of those authorized to prescribe, as some colleagues mentioned before me: a doctor, a dentist and a veterinarian. At last this matter is aligned to the needs of the model of the pharmacy of the services introduced from law n. 69 of 2009, for the benefit of the service that we can offer to the citizens. Improvements have also been made to the legislation that will make the life of professional orders more agile and less costly, such as the prediction that management councils will last four years. In this connection, I would like to announce that I have tabled an amendment - which I shall then explain - to standardise the terms of reference of the national councils, in analogy with the provincial councils, for a term of four years. Equally significant, with regard to disciplinary proceedings, is having introduced a separation between the investigative function and the judicial one. However, we cannot hide some shadowy areas and we cannot hide that this distinction could be better articulated and accompanied by a greater graduation of sanctions. In fact, professional orders have always been unable to measure, as I have said, with the right graduality, the sanctions for violations committed and this is certainly an element that makes it more difficult to combat illegal behaviour. Finally, I would like to make a point which I believe is the most important and which stems from the reaffirmation contained in the text, which is essential to me that the Orders of the health professions are non-economic public bodies and subsidiary bodies of the State, obviously with all the implications that this role entails in the activities that are aimed at ensuring the protection of health. In this respect, I must remind everyone that this does not involve any disbursement by the State, because the Colleges of Orders live from the contributions of members without state subsidies. The point is that the text confirms the establishment of professional orders in geographical districts corresponding to the Provinces in force at 31 December 2012. My thoughts today, in these hours, in these days, therefore go to the constitutional reform that will be the subject of a referendum in the autumn. In fact, just in the light of the considerations carried out, two scenarios open: if the reform passes, we will have a provincial organization of Orders although the Provinces have been abolished by the constitutional reform, with a clear asymmetry, so the Provinces will no longer exist, but will exist for the Orders. In the second scenario, the reform does not pass and therefore health remains a regional competence, so I wonder, precisely for the experience of these years, how a provincial professional representation will be able to relate effectively and consistently in the regional representation to which it refers. This, in my opinion, is a little 'unfinished, the node still to be dissolved: in the face of an important constitutional reform, it remains an asymmetry that, in both cases, can only be faced as soon as possible, to make the Orders truly more modern and able to respond to the challenge they want to carry forward. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u28	She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u29	Mr President, what we are discussing and which we are going to approve is a very important measure, also because of the profound innovation it contains. An innovation that starts from Chapter I and Article 1, which deals with the issue of clinical trials of medicinal products and the updating of essential levels of care, and I say this from gender medicine, which is a different and innovative approach, indispensable to overcome health inequalities. This is one of the most important issues, because the promotion of gender-based research and experimentation is necessary to address health inequalities and to ensure equal treatment and access to care, as well as the appropriateness of care. For a long time the difference between men and women has been considered a secondary factor, both in the development of new pharmacological solutions and in the identification of forms of prevention and treatment of pathologies. This is demonstrated, among other things, by a tradition of pivotal studies carried out mainly in male patients and the effect of this lesser presence of women in trials is that of therapies that are not always and not fully adapted to the needs of women's health and care. Instead, gender medicine is one of the best ways, for example, to give concreteness to the concept of the centrality of the patient, both in the research and development of effective and innovative treatments, and for the personalization of care. The gender dimension in health is a need for method and analysis but it also becomes an instrument of governance of the system. Therefore, recognizing the gender difference becomes essential for designing programmes, organising the provision of services and ensuring appropriateness. We are all committed at this time to supporting and strengthening the quality of the National Health System, and we are well aware that to give concreteness to this objective we need policies of appropriate care, effectiveness in the use of resources and performance, and in this sense gender medicine is one of the compositional elements of this challenge. That is why I also stress the importance and the way in which this principle has been translated into the article of the draft law. In fact, we are going to identify the ways in which clinical centres should be activated and optimised with a methodological approach to gender medicine and, as I said, the need for clinical trials on medicinal products to be carried out on an appropriate gender representativeness. In addition, an important aspect of training is also envisaged: for the possible establishment of master's degree in conduction and management of controlled clinical trials, it is established that gender pharmacology should be included. Equally important is Article 2 on the updating of LEAs, which clearly states that they must take into account the specific needs of gender medicine by providing appropriate treatment pathways and access to care in a uniform manner in the national health system. I have spoken of great innovation and I am still referring to Chapter I, talking about the importance of the delegation to the Government for the reorganization and reform of the regulations on clinical trials of innovative drugs, essentially to strengthen clinical research. Important is the fact that we are going to enhance exactly the clinical trial, whose aim is to improve, enhance and give transparency and effectiveness to clinical research, through significant choices such as the definition of evaluation and authorisation procedures in clinical trials, as well as the identification of the requirements of authorised centres, as well as the identification of ways to protect the independence of clinical trials and ensure the absence of conflicts of interest, and also with the definition of the minimum contents that must contain the trial contracts, which prove third-partyness, impartiality and independence of the investigators, and therefore also the definition of procedures for the verification of the investigator's independence. In this sense, I attach an additional, absolutely important importance to paragraph 2 (n) of Article 1, which concerns the regulatory review of non-profit clinical trials. Among other things, this is a request strongly supported by all non-profit associations. It is very important to promote and support independent research and the training initiative that promotes and supports internal medicine, because clinical trials correspond to the ability to read and govern processes, also ensuring the improvement of care and care. I hope that the Government, with the implementing decrees, will further support and strengthen non-profit clinical research, especially in two respects: to ensure the use of resources already available and to simplify administrative procedures, including insurance, for trials, as indicated by European Regulation No. 536 of 2014, in particular for clinical trials at a low level of intervention. I conclude by stressing the importance of Article 6, which, with reference to Article 61 of the Criminal Code, defines as aggravating circumstances the fact that he has committed crimes against persons who have been admitted to health or socio-sanitary, residential or semi-residential facilities. This is a first important signal, an important response to the too many episodes that occur, as shown by the chronicles, towards elderly people who are not self-sufficient or disabled, people who need careful care, loving and highly professional. I know that it is not enough to intervene on the penalty: we should address this issue more quickly and more generally, starting with the prevention and training of staff rather than controls. But in the meantime this measure takes over the piece of its own competence. I believe that this is also one of the elements which have witnessed, around this measure, a great unity and a great debate, passionate and competent, in the Commission and it seems to me that there is also the same support in this House. The hope is that this bill will be adopted quickly and that the House will be able to implement it as quickly as possible. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u30	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u31	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to add to all the positive comments that have been made on the work of the Health Commission, which I too have taken part in. It is true that this bill contains a delegation to the Government on clinical trials of medicinal products, as well as on the updating of LEAs, on the reorganization of health professions and, finally, on the health management of the Ministry of Health. On the basis of the clinical trial, our attention has been paid in the Health Commission to international standards for the ethics of medical research on human beings, the definition of procedures for the verification of the independence and impartiality of investigators and, finally, to ensure that there is adequate gender representation in this trial. These are all things which seem obvious at this point, but which have had a wide-ranging debate in the Commission. Having said that, I believe that, because it is a delegated law, we must also say what we could have done and what we are still able to do to improve our work. As Article 2 introduces the reference to gender medicine, which pays particular attention to an important stage in the life of women such as childbirth, I would hope that in time similar attention will also be given to the stages prior to childbirth, and in this respect I am thinking of something on which I have also discussed several times in this House, which is the voluntary termination of pregnancy. In my opinion, it would be right to tackle conscientious objection, namely the famous article 9 of Law No 194 of 1978. That there are departments of gynecology where you reach 90 percent of objectors is scandalous, since the public service must guarantee the voluntary termination of pregnancy to all women who make this choice which - I remember - is always a painful choice and is not made this way, just please. Nor should we, as has happened in this House, hide behind the statistical numbers. In fact, if in one hospital there are 50 percent objectors and another 90 percent, let's say that the service is guaranteed because we are around 70 percent average. I think we should ensure that this service is guaranteed in every gynecology department, and that is why the non- objectors should be 70% and not vice versa. I hope that Parliament will take action to resolve this problem. In Article 2, we are also talking about updating the essential levels of care (LEA), providing for therapeutic pathways for access to care in a uniform way within the National Health System. It is an important choice to include in the LEA the procedures for the control of pain, both in labor and in childbirth, also through the use of locoregional anaesthesia. What is missing, in my opinion, is that we cannot put medically assisted procreation benefits into LEAs. The National Health System provides medicines that are necessary for medically assisted procreation and we do not enter the benefits. This, in my opinion, is paradoxical, also because, following the judgment n. 162 of 2014 of the Constitutional Court, which declared unconstitutional the law n. 40 of 2004 in the part where it prohibits heterologous fertilization techniques, we will have an increase of this technique. The Censis, as we learn from today's news, tells us that one in three couple pays for the treatment of their own pocket and the figure is over 5,200 euros. The public centres are few and long waiting lists. Let us bear in mind that the percentage of pregnancies in treated women is currently 22%. We now come to the reordering of the discipline of the Orders of the health professions. I too agree with the fact that it was right at last to modify this structure and to do so in such a precise and timely manner. We also say, however, that one of the main problems of health orders, but in practice of all professional orders, is that of internal democracy and the transparency of acts. Transparency is not only about the members of the Orders, but also about the citizens, because the decisions of these Orders certainly have a certain impact on society. Not only that; from the way of election of the summits both at provincial and national level, they derive a whole series of positions (previdential, such as those for pensions, or for the management of real estate) and advice from institutional bodies within the National Health System. Increasing the level of internal democracy in the Orders is therefore, in my opinion, a priority. Until now the agreements between the major entities within the Orders have determined elected and political without it being possible to have a real opposition recognized by the vote of the members within the elective assemblies. It would therefore be necessary for the elections to take place in recognition of opposing lists. I can say that this subject is closely related to the Order of Doctors and Surgeons: you think that in Florence, out of 7,000 members, only 1,500 doctors go to vote, because they know that this will be the winning list and they also know that there will be no real democracy within the Order, without it being possible to have a real opposition to the vote of the members within the elective assemblies. On this basis, I have proposed an amendment calling for the majority of voters to take 70% of the vote, while the remaining 30% is given to the second list that has obtained the highest number of votes among those present. This would certainly make it possible to have a greater turnout in the vote of the members of the Order. Moreover, in order to protect against possible conflicts of interest, it would be appropriate that for provincial and national bodies the term of office should be four years, for no more than two consecutive mandates, effectively imposing an automatic replacement of the representations: until now, in fact, there have been Presidents who have reached and exceeded the ten years of mandate. Equally important, in my opinion, is the question of the weight each individual order has on the election of national bodies. To date, the leaders of every professional category in the field of health care are determined by a small number of provincial Orders, which have a high number of votes available and can elect one representative for every 200 members. As we have said, this could have been valid in 1946, but in 2016 only determines the consequence that three or four provincial Orders, for the weight of their number of members, decide on their own national summits. It is necessary to safeguard the principle that an Order with a greater number of members has a greater weight, but not at the expense of democracy. That is why we in the Commission have increased the election of one representative to every 500 members. It is certainly a step forward, but I believe that one representative should be one for every 2,000 members, leaving the Orders with less than 2,000 members the possibility of electing one of their representatives equally. This would make representativeness more democratic. Therefore, in giving new financial and managerial autonomy to the Orders of the health professions under the guidance of the Ministry of Health, it is a priority to think about how to avoid the risk of creating self-managed and closed categories, but rather accessible and transparent. At this point, the bill changes the name of the Professional Nurses' Register in that of the Nurses' Register, while the Children's Nurses' Register takes the name of the Paediatric Nurses' Register and the Colleges of Midwifes become Orders of the Midwife's profession. In Article 4 the profession of osteopath is established and defined; in Article 5 the organization of the professions of biologist and psychologist, in Article 6 the national list of biomedical and clinical engineers. In the face of all this, I think it's time we stopped ignoring the figure of the doctor in motor science. I know I am against the Commission's opinion, but this figure, with its various specializations, has always been involved in promoting prevention and health in various areas, without any professional recognition by the State. We are thinking not only of motor education at school, which, in my opinion, must reach the levels of school systems in Northern Europe, but also of fitness centres, gyms, health facilities and sports associations. When it comes to health, we can't rely on unskilled personnel and while it's true that I can check which gym my son goes to at five or six years old, I absolutely can't know and check where my son goes, who is 25, who sometimes comes home stuffed with anabolic just because he ended up in a gym where the professional figure doesn't exist at all. This is a serious problem because, especially in the early age groups. Incorrect motor education seriously affects the development and health of the child, and consequently of the adult. Moreover - we have said all - every euro spent in prevention through a correct motor education allows to save more than four euros of sanitary expenses. Yesterday I attended a conference on the impact of obesity in Italy on the occasion of the European Day of Obesity. This is certainly a very interesting subject. Well, from what has emerged, since obesity has been recognized as a disease, in Italy over 21 million people are overweight; this leads to a decrease in life expectancy from five to ten years. The prevalence is between 55 and 74 years, while the percentage of obese children is 9.8, with higher percentages in the Central and South Regions. 11:25 a.m. (Romani Maurizio followed). It is clear and clear that, despite the fact that graduates in motor science employed in the labour market continue to boast a higher than average employment rate, one of the most critical points is the very high share of undeclared work. Moreover, those who do not work in black are often forced to sign atypical and precarious contracts, while working as full-time employees. In fact, the percentage of graduates with an indefinite contract is very low. To further complicate the situation - and we have seen it in the Health Commission - there is also the problem of sharing space with physiotherapists: a historic guerilla made of field invasions and professional jealousies; graduates in motor science on the one hand, physiotherapists on the other. I think it is time to correct the unequal treatment of these professionals. If, in fact, the doctor in motor sciences is denied the possibility to operate as a physiotherapist - as I think perfectly correct - the latter is allowed to operate in areas proper to the graduate in motor sciences. This is what many operators do, often with technical skills acquired - it is true - but lacking the necessary university qualification for interventions that concern health, prevention, educational processes, psychophysical balance. A commonplace is that the degree in motor science is relatively easy to acquire. Many people think that most students spend their time at university practicing the most varied sports disciplines, having fun and devoting only a small part to the study of books. But, then, what does he study and deal with the graduate in motor science? Legislative Decree No 178 of 8 May 1998 states that: the degree course in motor sciences is aimed at acquiring adequate knowledge of cultural, scientific and professional methods and contents in the following areas: didactic-educational, aimed at teaching in schools of every order and degree; of the prevention and motor education adapted, aimed at subjects of different ages and disabled subjects; technical-sports, aimed at training in different disciplines; managerial, aimed at the organization and management of sports activities and structures. In small words, and with a little interpretation of what the legislator has written, the graduate in motor science would have skills (not exclusive) and work opportunities in school, gyms or fitness centers, in reeducational intervention, in athletic preparation and in the managerial field. This interpretation is made necessary by the fact that the aforementioned legislative decree does not talk about what the graduate in motor science does or can do, but in reality only about the knowledge he should possess. Distinction that may seem trivial, but that in reality is not at all, because there is a difference between possessing knowledge and then being the sole performer of it, who is a Member of the European Parliament to put it into practice. From here we come to create the basic misunderstanding of the graduate in motor science, guardian of knowledge then put into practice by everyone. It certainly seems to be time to find concrete solutions in this particular area. The inclusion and practice of physical education within schools must not be more than an ideal, but rather a concrete fact, given the fundamental importance that the movement has for the harmonious psycho-corporeal development in the evolutionary age. Even the progressive integration of the graduate into the university world would make the teachings certainly more interesting and the teachings more credible. It is not possible that a teaching in didactics of motor activity can be carried out by graduates in letters or philosophy, with all the respect I have for the latter. It is up to us legislators to make just laws, so that, in this case, in the health field, the difference, the true one, make it the preparation, the competence, the desire. That is why I am asking, and I believe it is time, to set up the register of graduates in motor science as well. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Granaiola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u32	Senator Bianconi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u33	Madam President, in the five minutes that have been allocated to me, I shall concentrate on the reorganization of the health professions. This issue we are dealing with today has seen its debut more than twenty years ago. We are talking about over 800,000 operators for whom the process of organizing health professions began with Law No. 502 of 1992, continuing with Law No. 251 of 2000, until Law No. 43 of 2006. The latter had the great merit of previewing an organic discipline within which was previewed a delegation to the Government for the establishment of professional orders in the field of health. These important innovations have never seen the light. The de facto delegation was not implemented by expiry of the time limits. There is no doubt that health issues are a central element in the national health organisation, in a health system that has profoundly changed. Today we are talking about the right to health, the primacy of prevention, a system of solidarity and universalism, and there is therefore no doubt that professionals are really the backbone, the main actors of all this. Unfortunately, inadequate or unsatisfied measures have created differences and mixes over time between provisions of principle and rules of detail. The absence of a modern legislative thread, in step with the times, has made it difficult to respond to the increasing demands of professionalism coming from the user citizen. We know that there are modern reasons that rely on ancient problems and we also know that times and actors have changed profoundly. But what we try with tenacity and courage to do in this measure is not to hide it, and to face it with balance. It is clear that the ordering plant in health needs a deep regulatory adjustment in its content, in its mode of participation, in its relations with citizens. We cannot fail to legislate, we can no longer stall, we cannot leave the solution of these problems to the free market or to anarchy. In this regard, to those who criticize this measure because it is contrary to the need to liberalise, let us remember that the European Commission has never dreamed of following this design for the health professions, understanding very well that the subject we are talking about is extremely sensitive and complex. It is therefore an act of justice, recognition, promotion of the quality of the health services provided and of the training paths to be recognized as such; but it is also a law to protect citizens in a sector heavily affected by a hateful and serious professional abuse. I believe that each of us on this text will have received hundreds of e-mails - you, Madam President of the 12th Commission, first - few in favour, many disagree. Many of these e-mails were aimed at protecting their professionalism by claiming paths and speeches that belong to the past. To all those involved and to the political world who have worked hard on this measure, I would like to address two final points. The first is that time has passed, situations over time have consolidated and other perspectives have emerged. The difficult balance found within this measure can certainly displease someone and make others rejoice, but it is a balance and we must put this possible result on the balance compared to an impossible result. And believe me, I have no certainty that this time we can write the end word. The second consideration is that on this subject too we have seen politics support discordant thesis, sometimes even with imaginative positions, but in politics we must recognize that there is the rule of great wisdom that our constituent Fathers have handed down to us and that we too often forget: it does not legislate against someone, but we try to build, by doing our best, a law that can improve everyone's life. At least this effort is good that we recognize it. Madam President, I would like to remind the House that in this measure, as many senators have pointed out very well, there is definitely gender medicine. I would like to remind you of this in this House because the first time Parliament dealt with gender medicine was in this Senate, back in 2003, through a bipartisan motion. It was a matter then unknown. On the other hand, it was a very young subject. It was born in 1976 from an American cardiologist who had been annoyed to see different diagnostic and therapeutic results between men and women: men were better treated for the drugs given than women. Since then a movement has been born. We're talking about a few years. Yet, this movement took breath and also thanks to our interest. We have to say: this Senate has been an active part of it. I do not know whether President Calderoli, who was vice-president in 2003, presided over that sitting. I seem to remember this. Since then, university vocational training has started with a master's degree invented by the then Turkish Minister of Health. Academic colleges, conferences and other motions have made it a common heritage today and we finally find it written in clear letters as a right enshrined in a provision. This is also why it is important for this provision to see the light. We are refining this principle more and more because we were talking about medicine of the gender of man-woman and now we are realizing that there is a need to talk about medicine of woman, man, child and elder because each body has a different ability to take drugs depending on age and gender. I wanted to highlight all this because, at a time of anti-politics like what we are finally living after ten years, this issue (which the Senate has made possible) becomes patrimony within a measure as important as that at our examination. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Rizzotti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u34	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u35	Madam President, the draft government law was presented on 21 February 2014 and from there began its process between hearings, general discussion, amendments and approval. It has been the subject of analysis at 53 meetings of the Health Commission. This serves to understand how deep the study of this provision has been. It has begun, as has been well explained, with 26 articles, 16 have been deleted and 4 have been added. I would like to read the title of a few deleted articles such as, for example, the delegation to the Government on the reorganization of the supervised bodies, in the matter of food safety, in the matter of refrigerated vessels aimed at the prevention of endemic gozzo and in the matter of plant protection. They have rightly been removed from the Commission, which has worked very well. This shows that the Government is now accustomed to building disorganic measures that collect dozens of critical issues that try to solve without an organic and overall vision. So, it often happens that the patch is worse than the hole. Let's get to the measure. I too make a joke about Article 1, which delegates to the Government the reorganization and reform of the rules on clinical trials. The introduction of the specific reference to gender medicine is very interesting. I believe that in experimentation all variables should be taken into account and not only gender medicine, but also, for example, age. I remember the teaching of my professors of pediatrics, who told me that a child is not a small man, but that he has his own psychology, physiology and pathology other than adult. However, it is very important that a subject as complex as clinical trials is finally regulated, including the new European Regulation and the Helsinki Declaration. A consideration also on Article 2, which updates the LEAs, and on the containment of pain in the labor phase of childbirth. We would have liked many other LEAs to be updated, as set out in paragraphs 553 to 565 of the 2015 Stability Act and not see a measure approving a LEA at a time. But we come to the heart of the problem, which is Article 3, which reorders the discipline of orders and health professions. We all agree that the Orders should be renewed and revised. This provision regulates some firm orders for some time and others are established. And albums are also set up within these orders. This article organizes the Orders according to a structural structure very similar to the current. A rather taxing top structure is born, which allows the members a decision-making power at least reduced in the organizational choices, also considered that they must pay for them. Let us now address some of the issues that I want to stress here. To consider that it is the National Federations that ask for the reunification and the doubling of circumscriptions does not appear functional. Hardly do the Orders propose a combination even though they are unable to function. Therefore, in this sense it would be more appropriate for the Ministry to arrange for the amalgamation. However, it would be more appropriate to articulate at least regionally, in line with the regional structure of the National Health Service. Let's remember that already today some existing provincial Orders and colleges are not able to function because many are deprived of staff and fail to honour all the typical obligations of the public administration. Recognizing that the Orders and their National Federations are non-economic public bodies contrasts with the repeated desire to avoid the application of Legislative Decree No. 165 of 2001 and all the public advertising rules typical of public administration, such as anti-corruption and transparency. Even such a wide range of professional financial autonomy is not compatible with the nature of a non-economic public body and a subsidiary body of the State aimed at protecting public interests, but above all with the non-contributory and taxing nature of the contributions of members, who are obliged to register not to receive a service in return but in virtue of their status as professionals. The verification of professional qualifications is easy to obtain, being a qualification that is obtained at the university and self-certification. Full listing advertising is also necessary in order not to compress competition and the real choice between all professional operators in a register and for specific skills. Full disclosure of these lists would make it possible to ascertain the actual number of members of the register, their function in society, the revenue from the introduction of compulsory registration fees. To assign to the orders the planning of the needs of professionals, that is, their number is very questionable and is justified by the fact that these institutions should have the pulse of the employment situation of their members. Based on this, before the beginning of the academic year, they should provide the Ministry of Health with the number of students enrolled in the first year of the relevant degree course. This is not the case, however, because the Orders in most cases do not know the actual employment situation of their members. There is also a link not always transparent and of real conflict of interest, between the academic world and the ordinalistic representations, which often coincide. This link means that the Orders communicate an overestimated need to meet the needs of the universities and justify the opening or maintenance of graduation courses with a few students, from which will come out professionals who, given the current employment crisis, will remain, with a fair chance, without work. Orders are not interested in reducing the number of subscribers by adapting them to professional needs. Moreover, the fact of playing a role in the academic world and, at the same time, an elective office within an Order guarantees a future pool of votes from those students who will one day be enrolled in the Register. In view of this, it is clear that combining the planning of training needs with the participation in training and skill activities is a clear conflict of interests. In my opinion, other very critical points are, for example, linked to the discipline of vocational refresher processes: training is a constitutionally guaranteed value and is free. In the case of health professionals, instead, the obligation to acquire so-called ECM training provided by providers, authorized by the Ministry of Health through a national ECM Commission of which, moreover, representatives of the ordering world are part. It is worth noting that certain orders, either directly or through foundations formed by them and not transparent, are also accredited as ECM training providers. The management of disciplinary activities, as described in point (i) of paragraph 2 of Article 1, also appears redundant, not functional and more attentive to protecting corporate interests. Again there is a macroscopic conflict of interest where elected and/or eligible subjects are also judicial and legal subjects. Among other things, the judicial function is known to be discretionary and there is no precise correspondence between infringement and sanction. Moreover many professionals are civil servants already subject to disciplinary norms of the companies of belonging and must also be subject to the disciplinary regime of order. The fact that the College of Auditors should be elected, in the context of professions which have little to do with technical and administrative expertise, is also highly questionable. It is absurd that in the third millennium the auditors of a non-economic public body are not auditors, as provided for in the rules on internal control of each public administration and as provided for, inter alia, in the recent rules establishing the list of auditors at the MEF. The absurd prediction is therefore maintained that doctors, nurses and midwives elected are auditors of a public administration. I believe that an analysis should also be made of participation in the votes. How can the membership assembly represent a person elected by 15% of the votes, as my colleague pointed out earlier? Furthermore, no limit has been proposed to the number of mandates to our representatives and this creates the perpetuation of a number of people who remain in office for a very long time. The tasks assigned to the Governing Council include, for example, the fee for issuing opinions for the winding-up of fees. The opinion on the liquidation of fees has no reason to exist in the face of the abolition of tariffs. Among the rules that we are about to approve is also the one that says that "directive councils" can be dissolved when they are not able to function." Instead, it is necessary to decline when advice is unable to work. At present there are some Orders that do not work, that are not open to the public and that do not guarantee the function of collective protection entrusted to them. In fact, the rare cases of dissolution of Orders take place only because of political electoral disputes and not because notoriously not working. At another point of the measure it is expected that for the exercise of each of the health professions it is necessary to register to the respective (this forecast is without any logic, both in the case of civil servants, and in the case where the professional qualification is given by a university qualification); to have residence and/or domicile or to exercise the profession in the district of the Order. This is a clearly anachronistic limitation with respect to the evolution dictated by computer science and the network, which makes the existence of albums related to the residence or the domicile by now pleonastic. Moreover it is not compatible with the free exercise of the profession both on the national territory and on the European one, so that it is evident that the same territorial structure of the Orders no longer corresponds to the function of the Orders themselves or to the free movement of professionals. The fact of being deleted from the professional register for morosity is also an act to be carefully assessed: in addition to recognizing the par-tributary character of the registration contribution, as well as the taxing power of orders, it can thus inhibit the exercise of a profession. Today all professionals, after completing their university studies, have the need to register and therefore pay a fee and in the meantime do not work or work so precariously that they do not even reach survival. I'm gonna stop right here. With regard to Article 3, there are many critical situations. However, I would like to focus on Article 4, which regulates the establishment and definition of the profession of the osteopate and Article 12, which defines that of the chiropractor. There is no doubt that the professions of osteopath and chiropractor should have been regulated, but all other health professions should not have been forgotten. With the same logic, they should have been included in the establishment of the Order of medical radiology technicians of health and technical prevention and rehabilitation and prevention all the other albums of professionals that we have forgotten, from the speech pedictorian, to the podiatrist, to the orthoptist (there are really many). We know that health professions are now well regulated and have a very copious overall regulatory framework: from Law No 42 of 26 February 1999, to Law No 251 of 10 August 2000, to Law No 43 of 1 February 2006, to Paragraph 566 of the Stability Act 2015. The system already provides for the possible institutionalization of new professional figures through the mechanism provided for by Law No 43 of 2006, which we can summarize as follows: transposition of Community directives, i.e. on the initiative of the State and the Regions; agreement of the State-Regions Conference defining the professional title and the scope of activity; technical-scientific opinion of the Higher Health Council extended to experts of the Ministry of Health, the Regions and the Professional Orders; functions that must not be parcelled and overlap with the functions of the already existing professions. Having said that, it is clear that the institutionalization of the profession of osteopath has its own path and, at the first opportunity of recognition of new professional figures, the legislator not only denies himself, but travels two ways, one for osteopaths and another for chiropractors. Therefore, the osteopath is recognized by ordinary law without technical advice, without a previous requirement recognized by health plans and without even the need to give a legal framework to figures working in the National Health Service, as it is totally absent from the structures. Curiously, the rule remains in force, but it does not apply on this occasion. My colleague Romani has already highlighted the criticality between these figures and the degree in motor sciences and I do not intend to continue any further. We would have liked to understand how you intend to organize the three-year university degree courses, common to the many professions with specialization with a master's degree of one or two years later (as we hope), or the proliferation of numerous courses for which we would have more university teachers than students. I would also like to point out that the measure was not intended to tackle the problem of private schools, sometimes of a good and expensive nature, in contrast to others which simply deliver pieces of paper to be exhibited at the appropriate time. What are we going to do on this side? In addition, it has not put its hands on vocational schools aimed at post-secondary students, who create professions whose role, at this point, is not entirely clear. In conclusion, we are very concerned that with a measure that has been so long studied many aspects have been postponed to the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, eight senators have requested, pursuant to Rule 99 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the early closure of the general discussion on the Senate Act 1324. I would remind you that, in the event of objections, one speaker has the floor for each group and for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u39	DIRINDIN (PD). Madam President, we are surprised by the request for an early closure of the debate, as the debate is continuing fairly smoothly. If I am not mistaken, there are only four Members who speak and, therefore, the debate could begin quickly. In addition, I do not think it appropriate, on a measure relating to public health policies, for this House to give the impression that it wants to dilute the time. On the contrary, we should show that, within the competence of this House, we are trying to conclude the examination of a measure that is of interest to many people and to many health professionals. It is true that the debate this morning was smooth and rapid, partly because much of the work was done in the Health and Health Commission. On many occasions, this morning, my colleagues - I am thinking of Senator Zuffada's speech, but also of all the other colleagues, the majority and the opposition - have pointed out the great work done there. In fact, in the Commission we held 36 hearings on the measure under consideration, which was incardinated in 2014 and which we wanted to reappear, by deleting some articles, in order to propose an organic measure which could arrive in this House after a good preparation in the Commission - which we all always support is necessary - so that in this House the debate could be relatively agile and simple approval. It seems to me that, in the light of the effort that has been made, to suspend the debate means to frustrate the commitment that we have all made - unanimously, as an opposition and as a majority - so that, once we have arrived at this House, the debate on the measure can be dealt with relatively quickly, obviously with respect for the debate and not with those who want to close the debate earlier. This would mean postponing work until next week, when we know that we have other important measures to deal with and try to approve, so that we can spend time on the other activities that we all have on our territory. Now, however, within an hour or an hour and a half, we could take a big step forward, which would probably allow us to postpone the explanations of vote until next week. I therefore express the absolute opposition of myself and of the whole Democratic Party to the proposal for the early closure of the general debate and, indeed, I hope that the sense of responsibility of all will lead us to move forward quickly, concluding today also the examination of the amendments, which are few and easily dealt with. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u42	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, the situation is becoming a bit comical, because yesterday we could not start the debate, today we should interrupt it at noon to finish our work and postpone it until next week. Of the two, one: or colleagues are angry with the Health and Health Commission, which, among other things, brings to the attention of the House measures unanimously agreed or at least well worked out in the Commission, on which in essence there are no major discrepancies and which, in fact, are few, because normally the 12th The Commission is dealing with them in a deliberative way, or we want to give rise to the so-called anti-politics, which means that at noon people have to pack their bags to leave, so they finish their work very soon. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We do not understand why today at noon, with four people still to intervene on the draft law under consideration, we must stop the general discussion. I do not think that this is an honour to us or to those who propose it and that the image we give to the outside is certainly not pleasant, let us say so. To do so then when dealing with health issues, which do not have a political coloration (at least this we can absolutely support), is even worse. Those who have been waiting for most of the rules contained in this measure for 20 years certainly do not understand this melina, nor this obstructionism, which is certainly governed by the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, but that on this matter really causes a situation of amazing disbelief, even by those who speak to you. As far as our Group is concerned, we ask that we do not close the debate in advance and continue the legislative process of this measure. We still have four people to listen to, and then we will quickly go and deal with the few amendments tabled in this House. We owe it, if nothing else, to the decorum of this Senate; if it is true that, with the next constitutional reform, it will be handed over to other styles and to other people, we also owe it to ourselves and to the work that we normally do with extreme commitment and seriousness in the competent Commissions. This is particularly true of the Health Commission, which, Madam President, I have the honour to say, works very seriously and passionately. I repeat yesterday's controversy: probably if one of the Members who, even today, called for suspension came to work in the Health Commission, it would not respond to claims such as this one. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u45	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Madam President, I would deny myself if I, who also belong to the opposition in this House, accepted the proposal for an early closure of the debate. In fact, the reasons which led to the unanimous vote in 12a The Commission has not failed, nor have the reasons for many senators, including in terms of broad political representation, to express generally positive assessments and convergence on the work that has been done. I therefore express my negative opinion and, on behalf of my parliamentary group, my vote against this proposal, and I hope that the time we are committing can be quickly recovered in order to complete the work in today's sitting, including by examining and voting on the amendments. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u48	D'ANNA (AL-A (MpA)). Madam President, I will be telegraphic. Otherwise, if we go any further, we play the game of those who want to close the debate. Everything is legitimate in this House and parliamentary play is also part of the rules. To those who intend to procrastinate the adoption of this bill I would just like to remind you that most of the rules contained in it were already approved by the House of Deputies five years ago. I quote only one, the one that assigns a legal and scientific path to research. This is a nation that, when the cases of Di Bella or Stamina arise, does not yet have a scientific and legal path that allows to test the validity of certain assumptions, so it is the magistrates, then, to determine whether a particular therapy should be applied, however random and not scientifically valid. Bicameralism led us, after five years, to propose the things that we unanimously approved in the House and that could not be approved in the Senate because the legislature was dissolved. And do you think it is appropriate, compared to a social, scientific and cultural problem of such a wide range, such as the discipline of the scientific path on clinical trials of drugs or innovative therapies, to come and waste time on these issues? Do obstructionism on the boiling of the prosciutti of the Val Brembana, but forget these things that are serious and go beyond the exploitation of the political game! We must proceed because we must recover five years of time for millions and millions of sick people who are probably waiting for science to say a word to help them, so as to listen to the scientific truth and not the truth of the good things that occasionally parade on the scene of public opinion, proposing miraculous cures for rare diseases. So you have a minimum sense of responsibility for the matter that you intend to postpone. There are a thousand ways of doing obstruction and a thousand ways of wasting time, but that is certainly not the subject on which to exercise this kind of parliamentary tactic. We are therefore in favour of continuing the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u51	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would ask you to speak as a representative of the Group in order to make a point, since I think I see the world upside down. We have asked for an early closure of the general debate, so if there had not been this long sequence of interventions against this proposal, we would have already had the reply and we would already be voting on the amendments. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mangili]] So, if someone delayed the debate, it's who intervened to delay, or rather to get us to our goal. In fact, it is so important that it is very humiliating to see three or four people talking about it in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] We have achieved our goal: you have all returned to this House and therefore, convinced of this, we are laughing at this House's dignity and withdrawing the request for an early closure of the general debate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u52	As the request for an early closure of the general discussion has been withdrawn, we shall continue with our work. He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u53	Madam President, I will try to please my colleagues in the League by limiting the speech to a minimum and perhaps by handing over the written text so that it can be annexed to the report if the Presidency authorizes me to do so. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I should like to add a few comments to the text of my speech. Firstly, as far as trust is concerned, I think that Renzi and his government, rather than asking Parliament for confidence, in the specific case of the Senate, should give the Senate confidence. This has shown the method by which we have dealt with the subject that has been proposed to us, that of the bill No 1324, a measure defined omnibus, moreover of the Letta Government, that is, of the same Minister but with different Government, that has arrived in the Commission. I should like to thank the entire Commission, starting with the Presidency, for during the work the arguments, even the thorniest ones, have been dealt with in a very neutral way and have never been answered in a spirit of bias. It is true that many of the amendments tabled by Forza Italia, whom I honour to represent in the Commission, have been accepted and are part of the text tabled today. Secondly, I would like to make a recommendation to the Government which has received about 690 delegations, of which 214, if I am not mistaken, are still being implemented, i.e. they have not yet had any response. The hope is that this law, which is precisely a law of delegation to the Government, should not be delayed. You cannot go through this, Mr De Filippo, because some of the arguments we have dealt with in the Commission are of a European nature and could, if not quickly resolved, expose our nation to sanctions. I would like to stress one last thing to you, Mr Undersecretary, and this is not the first time I have done so. You have been a guest in the Commission, just as we have had many stakeholders, experts and representatives of the categories that this bill is interested in. But what I really want to stress is that we feel that there will be further cuts in health care. Well, you have been a guest in the Commission and you are well aware of the Committee of Inquiry into the effectiveness and efficiency of the National Health Service, the holistic and universal system of our health system, envied in many parts of the world. Well, this system is in crisis and we believe that if the government were to propose further health cuts, it would do well to renounce a holistic and universal system. Otherwise, a system that many envy us could be the first default of our nation; this is really what we would not want. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u54	The Presidency authorizes you to deposit the text of your speech, Senator Floris.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u56	Madam President, the measure we are debating does not provide for the proper recognition of all categories, but only of some. We have heard before, in the course of the interventions, the case of teachers of physical education and of graduates in motor sciences and today I would also like to talk about the case of optometrist opticians. I would remind you that, at present, the legislation governing this profession is contained in Article 12 of the Regulation on the discipline of the auxiliary arts of the health professions of 1928. Before I heard some of my colleagues calling some of the rules of 1945 inappropriate; well, here we are talking about a rule of 1928. All over Italy there are about 12,000 optometrist opticians, who do not see the recognition of a right right by this norm. They are 12,000 professionals, paying taxes and defending jobs for thousands and thousands of people. Italy is an excellence in this field and in this field. We are also talking about all the Italian factories operating in the sector, for example Luxottica and Safilo; these are large companies, which see in the profession of optometrist opticians the possibility of creating market, creating jobs and paying taxes. We regret that we have seen that the amendments relating to the recognition of this profession have been rejected in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. I hope that we have not hidden ourselves behind Article 81 in order to reject the rightful right of these professionals and that it has rightly been recognized by other professions, such as the osteopath or the chiropractor. The presence of some doctors' lobbies blocking the possibility of recognition of this profession seems to me a shameful fact that seems to be firm in the Middle Ages. This is a great injustice; the activity of professional opticians is recognized in all European nations. Well, I appeal to the Government and the Health and Health Commission again: do justice, do justice! The disappointment has nothing to do with the recognition of the other professions, but it is linked to the fact that there are strong lobbies that block the development and growth of this profession. It is an obtuse deafness or selective blindness; this inability to understand the evolution of a category clearly clashes with public opinion. In all Italian optic stores there are thousands and thousands of customers who recognize this professional figure and in all regions there are degree courses and is recognized the degree in optics and optometry. In this Parliament, however, this profession is not given dignity. Well, I would like to make a further appeal to the Undersecretary and the Commission: I believe that there are conditions for a solution to be found in order to recognise this right. [[Applause from Senators Pepe and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u57	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u58	Madam President, Mr De Biasi, ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to deal with a subject which not only meets very topical and highly requested criteria, but also with an agreement which has characterized the work of the 12th Commission. I believe that we must take note of this because when various components of a Commission unite in a rich constructive dialectic with a common feeling, they go beyond what is the partisan dimension, also defined as partisan, in order to enter into a more properly political dimension. Madam President, on the measure we are debating today, I would just like to make a few brief remarks on Article 2, and I am particularly grateful for your Presidency at the moment, for a very simple reason: I am going to deal with the article on updating the essential levels of assistance and, in particular, the updating of the same LEAs with the inclusion of pain control procedures in the stage of labor and childbirth. It is a theme that represents a tangible testimony of a welfare civilization, of a long-awaited modus agenda and of many women required throughout the national territory and not a leopard spot as is characterized by the assistance in the delivery room only and only in some areas of Italy. It seems to me, Madam President, that this issue creates an opening-up decline from an exquisitely bioethic and biomedicine reflection in a more properly biopolitical and - I dare say - "biolegislative" context. This is not in the perspective of biopolitics, as was recalled by its mentor Michel Foucault, that is to say as a domain of politics and political art on the body, on the life of women and on the body in general, but as a new paradigmatic form in which the respect and dignity of being a woman, of being a person at the moment of labor, can have its noble recognition, an intrinsic dignity at that time. We get to this formulation a little late, but we get there. We arrive after the National Committee for Bioethics, in March 2001, in a document entitled "The therapy of pain: bioethics" dedicated an ad hoc paragraph to the treatment of pain in childbirth. I do as much as the document reported by saying that the recourse to sedation of the pain of childbirth is not an alternative to natural childbirth, but as a means that medicine offers to make a free choice and to achieve, with the sedation of pain, a greater degree of awareness and participation in the event. Having said that, we could say that it is an enunciation of a programmatic order, a declination of principles and reference values. It does not seem to me, however, Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, because if we go to analyze also in terms of bioeconomy (using this other declination recognized not only at academic level), we find that with the analgesia in labor of childbirth, in addition to having a greater compliance from the pregnant woman herself, there is a reduction of defensive medicine as it reduces the use of C-section, with a consequent reduction of the costs to the National Health Service, as well as achieving an active and collaborative participation by the same pregnant woman. Such sedation can take place in its various declinations, whether it be the epidural, the spinal, the combined thorn-peridural block. I would like to make one particular point to this House: the Hastings Centre already in 1997 called for the absolute opportunity and inescapableness of the use of childbirth. In a nutshell, in some moments, when the pain is particularly intense and the great physical suffering is transformed from a physiological dimension to one of perceived pathology (as the labor of childbirth is not), it is a right of the child to choose an anesthesia that is effective and that should be included among those guaranteed, as I said in the incipit of my intervention, in the essential levels of assistance throughout the national territory. Madam President, let me say that this is not enough. In Article 2 of the provision in question I read in fact a recomposition of that dialectic value that for too long has found wrong exegesis of that biblical message that says to the woman "with pain you will bear children," which has been interpreted as a sort of condemnation, of categorical imperative towards the woman. However, a much more prudent and biblical and theological exegesis - which seems to me to be the foundation of the practical act as a loco-regional anesthesia - is that the dimension of disharmony that was interwoven in sexuality, fecundity and generational relationship (the foundation of what is called the immortality of procreation and generation) was not a condemnation. This is because we were going to create symbolically, through suffering, the dimension proper to the procreative and generative act, which did not represent a minus, but was part of that dimension (this is the delicate passage) deeply human that characterizes the noble gesture of the procreative and generative act. Therefore, to decline this aspect from a biomedical point of view again means to give a consideration of truth, a reading - if the Assembly permits me to do so - correct hermeneutics to the meaning of the suffering and pain of the labor of childbirth, which is not a condemnation, much less something desired or desirable; rather, being ontologically, intrinsically inscribed in the nature of the human being, it is also in the nature of the human being to find an antidote, a solution, a therapeutic intervention to suffering and pain, because they are not a condemnation, but are registered in the mortality of the person being. The paradox - this yes - of an interpretative order is that in the dimension of immortality he finds his aid, his help in the therapeutic medium of childbirth. In fact, the procreative and generative dimension is inherent in the immortality of being a person who moves into the new being, that is, the son. I don't want the midwives, a word whose etymology comes from obstascating, which means being ahead, but in the dimension of assistance; in the anthragic therapy there is the whole dimension of assistance, of adsisting, that is, of being next to each other. In that welfare relationality that takes advantage of a means, a system to ensure that the pain is not there or that it is softened, there is all the nobility of both medical and obstetric assistance, but also all the nobility and great dignity of procreation and generation. This is what I read in Article 2 and I will not dwell on others. I am led to show towards this theme, evidently, for obvious reasons and for long attendance of the care area, greater sensitivity and greater sharing, along with my applause for having wanted to include it among the essential levels of assistance. It requires it and imposes it on the dignity of the woman. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u59	I greet the students and students of the 2nd D of the Liceo Scientifico (scientific Lyceum) (Guido Castelnuovo) in Florence. Welcome and welcome to the Senate [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u60	Madam President, I too will try to make my contribution to the smoothness of the work and reserve the right to deliver a more detailed written text and limit the words to very few comments. It helps me in all this in the development of this morning's debate: very precise, very punctual speeches, some concerned, others critics, who have variously illustrated the multiform subjects of this measure. I also believe, however, that all the speeches agree on two issues: one of merit and the other of method. The merit is that, in any case, matters are alive, open issues that are delayed by the legislator and to which I believe that the legislator itself must give answers. The question of method, but of great significance: from all sides it has been agreed that a plural effort, more cultures, more visions of problems, more political belongings, certainly - we are in Parliament - has been recognized, but all reasonably converged in defining an area of common interest, which is then the public interests. The protection of health is a common good that must be protected, promoted, supported; that it must be adapted in good time to the new requirements that bullyingly fall into the field. Of course there are different visions (I would add: thankfully). Even this morning, calling me into question, Senator D'Anna proposed to us his legitimate visions of the problem: he criticizes, in our model of National Health Service and everything around it that arises and grows, the dominant position of the public, the lack of a real market, the lack of real competition; hence the waste, the lack and loss of potential quality, the reduced freedom of choice of citizens. Of course, the matter is much more complex, and probably not too relevant, but I would simply like to say to Senator D'Anna that in any case our model, with its limitations and its defects (which nobody obviously puts under the carpet), is the one that best guarantees the relationship between the quality of performance and the investment of resources. That's where we're at the top of all the charts. Our model is the one that, with 6.8 percent of public expenditure compared to GDP, guarantees these benefits. Our model is the one that is public for what it pays but it is at 35-40 percent private for those who deliver the services. It's a secular model. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Floris]] Our Health Service is the one that ensures that they enter into the availability of all citizens, regardless of credit card, the great innovations of technologies, medicines; and sometimes in recent years I thought how it would be different and more dramatic the weight of the crisis if we had not had public health and public school. You may not go to dinner, do not change your car, do not go to the movies, but you can't not send your children to school; you can't help but cure. [[Applause from the PD Group]] D'ANNA (AL-A (MpA)). Health is public, it is not state. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, please let Senator Bianco finish the surgery. WHITE (PD). Senator D'Anna, we're sure... White Senator, don't talk to Senator D'Anna, because I've already taken him back. You finish your speech. WHITE (PD). You're right, ma'am. Are we sure that this legitimate call for dialogue does not actually prefigure a condition for which competition, market and health are very particular things and especially, and that the only reference model is America where health expenditure constitutes 14% of GDP? I am also saying this in order to highlight that breath that these rules, of course not directly involved, give to the measure under consideration. I would just like to mention the reform of health orders and professions. Much has been said, so it is really useless to continue. I just wanted to point out that perhaps the innovative force of this novella, which is not a delegation, is precisely to redesign the mission, functions and roles, which are different and profoundly modified by the development of health and medicine. If we do not change them and make them fit to meet these challenges, they will not be able to fulfil that role of governance of the complexity of health professional activities in modern health care. This is the innovative force. I then heard objections about the operation and the elections. In fact, some have not read them in the text, which is open; the whole electoral mechanism is actually entrusted to a decree that will have to issue the Ministry of Health: there you can review the balances between representation, representativeness, democracy, duration of office and so on. I also believe that serious reasoning on clinical trials and research can no longer be postponed. Look, research and experimentation are the legs on which the future of medicine walks as science (and not just medicine). Either we are able to safeguard its integrity, protect it and promote its full development, or we are planning an asphyxiated future. I believe that the measure from this point of view makes an effort. I believe that we are faced with a good law, which gives answers that lie there for a long time, and I believe that if we succeed - and I hope so - to bring this measure to completion and to hand over to the Official Journal, we will certainly have made a significant contribution. Then of course, as often happens, objections, criticisms, oppositions, different visions, dissatisfactions, but it is normal, because it is a complicated and difficult matter. In the meantime this is a good step, let's make it firm and convinced. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u61	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u62	Madam President... [[Brusio. Recalls of the President]] I know that we are all tired and I think we need to move on quickly to the vote, so I would ask colleagues and colleagues for some concentration. First of all, I would like to thank you for the depth of the debate that has taken place and for the breadth of the debate. Of course, as always in these cases, we should start again, because colleagues have gradually realised the importance of this measure, probably escaped by a somewhat tumultuous way of doing the work of this House. We have been very thorough in the Commission and we have had a lot of hearings. There are 1,200,000 health professionals waiting for this measure. They are not few: they have been waiting for fourteen years. I must thank you for the work done by my predecessor in the Health Commission who started this tremendous work - because it is really very difficult - and did not make it. I think that as time went on, even with those who came earlier, we were able to achieve a balance, although difficult and unsatisfactory. There is no doubt that this is the case because we all wanted to be able to do more, but this is the point of balance. The European Union requires professional health care bodies to be indispensable to combat professional abuse. Cross-border medicine tells us that we need to get into Europe with the recognised health professions. Professional abuse is not only a problem for professionals, but above all for the safety of citizens. There is a professional dignity for everyone, from doctors to all the health professions that we recognize today. This is the first important news. I'm going to the second. Someone said that training courses are not declined. For the new professions that we recognise, training courses are not declined because they are the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, University and Research and the Ministry of Health. I believe that if everyone did their part seriously and well (Parliament, Government and Ministries), we would probably work a little better than we have done so far. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] Thirdly, there is a balance in the structure of this measure with regard to professions. I want to be very clear about this: I know that there are strong reasons for some health professions to be recognised. However, the balance we have reached requires that there be a "box" for these professions, that of the radiology technicians, in which, for the first time in Italian history, the dawns of these health professions will be obligatory. This is crucial. We then naturally have doctors, pharmacists, nurses, obstetricians, psychologists and biologists who will have an order to themselves. But if we touch that structure that we have foreseen, today already very complex and almost experimental, we are going to break a very delicate balance. I therefore think that the most important thing is to get the measure out of this House, because it has been sitting here for too many years, and to have it landed for the second reading in the House, in which, in agreement with the Ministries, reasoning can be made. Fourthly, there are the two new professions that are established (osteopate and chiropractor). I understand everything and I am aware that there is opposition; I am aware that there is a profession in particular that is opposed to the establishment of a composite register of rehabilitation technicians, but I want to say to this noble profession, that of the physiotherapist, that dissent lies in democracy and that, therefore, I accept all the criticisms made to me and to the work of the Commission and I take the responsibilities that I am responsible for, as if the Government will take them. But, ladies and gentlemen, do you want to tell me what dissent has to do with insulting, threatening and giving thieves to all of us - because this has happened - in the name of a profession that should, on the other hand, treat people gently? I want to be clear on this, Mr President. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio]] It is not acceptable for there to be an overlap which becomes a conflict of ethical interest towards Parliament. We don't accept; we're decent people. We worked together. The dissent is physiological, but the insult, when it crosses, will become the subject of criminal intervention. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] In addition, osteopaths will for the first time have an obligation to obtain a three-year degree. This is a very important fact, because there is no obligation today. Do we prefer that there are studies with plates bearing the inscription "osteopata" without having obtained a degree? Do we prefer that there is the written "physiotherapist" without having been obtained a degree or there is a register? Do we prefer that there is a label "chiropractico" without there being the validation of a degree? Or do we prefer that, together, they work in a transparent way, finally, with deontological sanctions to date absent in this country? I believe that we must choose for the professions, as we choose for ourselves, transparency, and the code of ethics guarantees this transparency. It also takes a little generosity, because it is not possible to think only and exclusively of the patient market. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bianconi and Rizzotti]] That is the problem in the end, because the quality of citizens' health is at stake. Why have we deleted these articles, i.e. the rest of the measure? In the meantime, because, frankly, by reporting my opinion (but I also believe in the whole Commission), this is no longer the time of great infinite designs that then do not apply: we have to choose priorities, and the priorities have been research, which is fundamental in our country (clinical research and then that on drugs in particular) and, secondly, maternity, because before thinking about fertility programs we have to think about the safety of motherhood. Too many women, in fact, still die of childbirth, because there are no registers; because there are regions where the Cesarean parts reach up to 92 percent, and it is a scandal and a shame of this country! Therefore, we must go to the most beautiful event in the world, to bring a life into the world, in the most natural and painless way for the woman and, of course, also safe for the child. We then sanctioned those criminals - because this is what they are - who mistreat the elderly and the disabled in protected homes and residences. Let's remember that. [[Applause from Senator Albano.]] I could go on for a long time, but I really want to finish, so that we can work and work better. I want to say to Senator Mandelli, Madam President, that it is not true what he said, namely that there is uncertainty about constitutional reform and the territoriality of orders. In fact, in article 1 it says exactly what is then present in the Delrio law. The photograph of the orders is on the photograph of the territory of the Provinces, as in the law of 2012. Everything can of course be improved, but we do not confuse apples and pears, because the reality is a bit clearer. We have worked for women by inserting gender medicine, which is not women's medicine. I want to be very clear about this. Let's stop thinking that, as a lady told me one night, now we also have pink aspirin. Gender medicine is not that nonsense. Gender medicine is not made for women; it is made for different bodies and different elements between men and women, so that there is no invasiveness of drugs on female bodies, so that there is respect for men and women and their sacred right to be cured. It is therefore not a quota, but it is a methodological and scientific approach that has great value and in this sense we must move forward. Everything can be done better. We are aware of our shortcomings, but democracy is based on a fundamental aspect: after the debate it is decided. Today we have to decide, finally, because the time is now. We cannot afford, once again, to turn our heads on the other side for small or large daily miseries or for small or large conflicts of interest. We are aware that we are taking a much more important step than many of us can think in favour of better health care and a better National Health Service. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u63	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u64	Madam President, Senators, Senators, I would like to make a few brief and useful remarks to the conclusion of this, which I regard as an excellent debate without infinity. There is a text in this House which - as has been pointed out - is the result of a very intense and also very profitable work which has developed in the Health and Health Commission. Therefore I must thank, not ritually, the senators who contributed to this activity, in a climate where the merit of the issues has always surpassed - in this circumstance I would say virtuously - biased positions that often make our work not simple, nor in some cases understandable. There has been a very constructive work in the Commission, certainly thanks to those who chair the Commission, President De Biasi, who was also able to gather, together with the Government, important indications from all the political groups, so as to propose a text that has been approved - I would like to remind you - by the unanimity of those present in the edition that this House is considering. A profoundly positive climate has been created, I would say sine ira et studio, which has allowed long and certainly dated work, as has been pointed out, because many of the elements of the bill were part of parliamentary activities prior to this legislature and, therefore, there is a complex sedimentation with which we had to deal. It has already been said, and I would like to stress it again, how in the field of experimentation of medicinal products for human use the measure is pushed much further - this is the opinion of the Government - and push forward also our country, even with the specificities that have been pointed out, especially on gender medicine, finally placing it in an increasingly European perspective, where the principles on scientific experimentation, such as those of simplification (also turned economic to this activity, but above all - I would say - assistance of research and experimentation), will find a stronger definition that will certainly allow our health system to better grasp the extraordinary opportunities that, at world level, innovation and research are carrying out tumultuously. I would like to mention only two or three points, the first of which, on several occasions, is the updating of the essential levels of assistance provided for by the 2001 decree of the President of the Council of Ministers on the procedures for the control of pain at the stage of labor and childbirth. Finally, that provision is at the end of the line. From here to a few days, after a long and tiring work of the Regions, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Health itself, will come to definition in the State-Regions Conference the update expected for many years, for more than 15 years, with its definitive approval. It is clear that a substantial part of the measure consists precisely of the innovations introduced in the whole area of the health professions by Article 3 of the draft law under consideration, which intervenes with an organic reform of the orders and colleges of the health professions in order to make our system more adherent to today's needs and ensure its functionality in the priority interests of citizens. Many of these elements, in addition to those mentioned in 1946, due to the historical length of some settings, especially with reference to some orders, are of much older date and even exceed the century. Therefore, we had to build a very delicate task of evaluation and also of comparison with the work of the Commission. Some of the speeches have indicated some elements of incorrect accuracy that I would like to point out. The reform is characterised by a two-fold substantial intervention. The first novelty is the definition of the legal nature of the orders as public non-economic entities and subsidiary bodies of the State which have the purpose of protecting public interests related to the activity and the exercise of professional activity. They will be entities with capital, financial, regulatory and disciplinary autonomy, subject to the supervision of the Ministry of Health. In addition, it is made clear that these are entities financed exclusively by the contributions of members, without burdening public finance. The role of bodies responsible for the promotion and assurance of the independence and autonomy of the professions in their exercise is enhanced. A signal - some Group has indicated it as a problem - that in identifying the tasks of the same orders, the advertising of the acts and the books of the respective professions and the verification of the possession of the qualifying titles, the bill in question provides that they must operate ensuring the respect of fundamental principles such as accessibility and transparency, recalling specifically the legislative decree 14 March 2013, n. 33, on transparency in the public administration. I would like to point out a second and last element, concerning disciplinary proceedings, which has been profoundly innovative. It is a matter of everyday life, and I believe it is part of the health system, also the issue of the conflict and responsibility of practitioners in the health professions. In order to guarantee the autonomy and the third-party nature of the disciplinary judgment, the draft law under consideration provides for a clear separation between the investigative functions and the judicial function. To this end, special training offices will be set up in each region to participate, in addition to the members drawn from the disciplinary commissions of the profession, also a representative outside the professions themselves appointed by the Ministry of Health. These investigating offices shall, on the basis of evidence and at the request of the Chairman of the disciplinary committee or of their own motion, carry out the pre-arranged acts for the establishment of the disciplinary procedure, submitting to the court the documents acquired and the reasons for the dismissal and the initiation of disciplinary proceedings. As a result of the changed legal and formative framework of the professions of the nurse and the medical technician of radiology, it has been pointed out - I am quick to sum up - that both legislative decree 30 December 1992, n. 502, and other measures, such as the law 1 February 2006, n. 43, have attempted to frame the theme of the many health professions (there are 17 recognized ones). There has been a very virtuous reorganization, with the forecast of the constitution of the albums for the health professions that are still lacking within the order of medical radiology health technicians and the so-called technical health professions of rehabilitation and prevention. The procedures for identifying these professions were quite well known and I am convinced that the bill we are about to approve will finally clarify the framework of this organization of national orders, albums and federations. Another significant novelty is that of the institution of the osteopath and chiropractor. For some of these professions there are Community initiatives and also measures on that scale that gave a very precise address to our country. Finally, I am thinking of the passage under the supervision of the Ministry of Health of professions such as biologists and psychologists, as well as the establishment of lectures on chemists and physicists. There is also another novelty that comes to affect the current organisation and governance of the health system in our country, with the forecast of the national certified list of biomedical and clinical engineers. I would like to comment briefly on two other reports: by supplementing Legislative Decree No. 271 of 1989, which contains rules for the implementation, coordination and transitional of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the destination of real estate confiscated to the offender of the offence of abuse of the profession of health care to the assets of the municipality where the property is located and its destination for social and welfare purposes. It is also worth mentioning the tightening of criminal sanctions for those who commit crimes against persons admitted to health care facilities or to residential or semi-residential social and health facilities. Unfortunately the daily news reports us dramatic events of this type, with which the health system and the Ministry's inspection activity are dealing. Finally, it is worth mentioning the rule that the achievement of more degrees or diplomas should give rise to the cumulative exercise of the corresponding professions or health arts at pharmacies, with the exception, of course, of professionals qualified to prescribe medicinal products, i.e. doctors. I have much more to add, but if I have to move forward quickly, I simply thank the members of the Commission and the House for the excellent debate. I believe that we are doing an important service, through a measure which, after a long parliamentary activity, finally comes to a positive conclusion. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u65	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency, also in view of the criteria adopted during the examination in the referee, declares that, in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, it is impossible to propose the amendments: 2.202, 3.230, 3.231, 3.232, 3.233, 7.201, 8.0.200 and 11.0.200, as well as the agenda G1.100 because it is unrelated to the content of the draft law under consideration. It also states that Amendment 3.16 is unacceptable because it does not have the essential requirement for the provision of guiding principles and criteria for the conferral of legislative power.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u66	Amendment 1,200 aims to emphasise the importance of also providing for alternative methods, which represent a real hope for the future not to use animals in research, at least as far as applied research is concerned. The alternative is based on the system of the three Rs, replacement, reduction and refinement, i.e. replacement, reduction and refinement. It is a path that combines the economic interest to reduce the costs of research, making it more effective, productive and relevant, with the more specifically ethical one of avoiding the sacrifice of animals in the name of scientific progress, when this does not bring anything new. All over the world, we look with attention and hope at the development of these research methods. A strong acceleration has recently been impressed by the new direction of the European center for the validation of alternative methods, a technical institute of the European Commission with the task of studying, promoting and validating procedures in which animals are not used. In each Member State of the European Union, good initiatives have taken place, such as the European consensus platform for alternatives (ECOPA), involving pharmaceutical industries, government bodies, research institutes and animalist associations. It is essential to take the path of alternative methods which, beyond ethical issues, are becoming a reality of scientific progress at international level. Allow me to make another point. This morning everyone emphasized the discourse of personalized medicine, of gender medicine, to distinguish research also by age groups (adult-child, race, type), because more and more advanced research even focuses on the isotype, on the specific cell, on the difference of metabolism. So, more and more, a certain way of doing research remains outdated, out of date; there are other techniques and other possibilities. This amendment calls for the identification of ways of promoting these alternative models of experimentation. It is an ethical factor, but also an economic development factor, on which Italy could become a leader. Today, in the distracted Italian national economy, the pharmaceutical industries go ahead, their research is appreciated and guarantee recruitment and increase of gross domestic product, as far as the pharmaceutical sector is concerned. Expanding and investing in this sector, if we have some foresight, would lead to being at the forefront and promoters at European and global level. I therefore call for this amendment to be signed and approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u67	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 1,202.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u68	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u69	Madam President, I shall present the three agendas on my behalf and try to be brief, given the timing. The agenda is intended to strengthen the commitment already made by the Government in the field of gender medicine, in particular through the formal recognition at national level of this approach and support for research on gender medicine, including by encouraging the creation, within the national health structures, of poles specifically dedicated to taking care of women's patients. I remember that last April 22 was the first national day of women's health and on that occasion there was the manifesto of women's health on which the importance of gender medicine was highlighted. The aim of the agenda is to make the system for charging residential and semi-residential structures fairer and more suited to the real needs of the population, while the agenda G1.103 aims to strengthen the government's commitment to implementing vaccination and screening plans on the whole population (true time of prevention), as well as to eliminate the unfair gap between the citizens of the various regions regarding the possibility of benefiting from the benefits provided by the LEAs.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u72	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Madam President, I have seen that I have another amendment in Article 1 and I would like to briefly explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u73	Try not to be distracted next time. You're only entitled to surgery, I'm sorry. I will give you the floor in the explanation of vote. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u74	Madam President, I would ask Senator Fucksia to withdraw and turn Amendment 1,200 into the agenda, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am against Amendment 1,201. The agenda is unavailable. On agendas G1.101 and G1.102 I am voting in favour, with the following rewording: after the words "engaged" the Government will add the following: On the agenda, Mr G1.103, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u75	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u76	Do you accept the reformulation, Senator Orellana? Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u79	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u80	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Senator Fucksia, do you accept the invitation of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to turn the 1,200 amendment into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u81	No, Mr President, I do not accept the agenda because the amendment is already almost an agenda. This is a measure on which I have heard the Commission compliment itself this morning. This is pleasing, because it means that working with passion, involvement and motivation is a positive thing; however, I think that judgments about our work should always express others. They are others who will have to tell us how good we were when we applied. In the end, the whole measure is a series of titles that will have to have detailed explanations and could also reserve surprises. That being said, this amendment is intended only to identify ways of promoting testing using alternative methods to animal testing. It is almost an agenda, in the circumstances. If you do not accept this either, I do not agree to turn it into an agenda and insist on its vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u84	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, on my own behalf, I would like to endorse Senator Fucksia's amendment 1,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u85	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senators Fucksia and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u88	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to remind you, as always, that there are dozens of cards placed in empty places. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I had arranged for them to be removed in advance. SANTANGELO (M5S). I would also remind you that under Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure, if irregularities are detected, the President may order the vote to be cancelled, so that, since we are at the beginning of the votes, I would ask you to cancel the previous vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u89	I ask for the collaboration of the senators: remove the cards of those who are not present in their place. Please, I ask colleagues to cooperate. Senator Ferrara, don't worry. So let us start with the first amendment. I shall cancel the previous vote. I would like to refer again to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senators Fucksia and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u91	Haven't you done this before, Senator Fucksia? FUCKSIA (Mixed). Not on this amendment, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u92	[[Protests from the PD Group]] There is no point in protesting when there is a right. Rights must be exercised. Please, Senator Fucksia. FUCKSIA (Mixed). Madam President, this amendment is very important because it aims to regulate private funding for research projects so as to restrict the possibility of altering results for reasons of particular interest. In particular, for projects relating to environmental epidemiological research and health impact assessment, precise protocols are required in accordance with the International Society for Environmental Epidemiology and IARC (International Agency for Research on Cancer) declaration of interest. How much press have you dealt with cesium and GMOs? When doing research, it is important that the results are not distorted by personal interest. I'm not saying something new: IARC does it and they do it all over the world, with validated protocols. I do not understand why we do not want to stress - and indeed stigmatize - the fact that research must be correct and free from economic interests. When a person writes a scientific article, he does it; I do not understand why we should not stigmatize him and use something that is not to be done ex novo, but it is only to be copied.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u95	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Madam President, I would like to add my signature to Amendment 1,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u96	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,201, tabled by Senators Fucksia and Romans Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,202 has been withdrawn. The agenda is unavailable. Having been accepted by the Government, agendas G1.101 (text 2), G1.102 (text 2) and G1.103 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 2, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u97	Madam President, Amendment 2,200 addresses the issue of updating the LEAs and provides for the inclusion of the words "on a biennial basis". Otherwise, how often do we have to update them? The next amendment 2,201 concerns the issue of pain control and alternative techniques to loco-regional anesthetics. I propose to include among these also acupuncture techniques, which are validated techniques. Finally, Amendment 2.203 concerns the updating of the tariff nomenclature, always every two years.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u98	Madam President, Amendment 2.204 calls for the integration of the criteria for updating the LEAs, including a revision of the list of care centres for people with diabetic disease, funded by the National Health System, in line with the requirements of Objectives 6 and 9 of the national diabetes plan, thus satisfying the request of a large number of associations of diabetic patients, who have also signed a petition addressed to the Minister. The G2.100 agenda concerns the same subject and contains a mention in particular of children with diabetes, who are obliged to keep their glycaemic level under control. There are new devices that make it much easier for teachers to do so, without the need for periodic puncture, which is currently the responsibility of teachers. This is a much simpler way, which I am not here to explain, particularly for children, as is indicated on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u101	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Madam President, I would like to add my signature to the agenda for G2.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u102	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u103	I am against all the amendments. Given the importance of the subject dealt with by the G2100 agenda, although totally off the table, I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u104	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur. However, I would like to point out to Senator Fucksia and Senator Orellana that in this year's law of stability the mechanism for updating the essential levels of assistance has been built more smoothly and quickly, because there is a Commission that paradoxically could update them even before the two years, if there was a need and evidence on that front; this also brings with it the update of the nomenclator. It is no longer the old procedure, and that is precisely why we have not given a favourable opinion, given that innovative mechanisms are envisaged in this year's Stability Act. I would say this if it could be useful for the withdrawal of the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u105	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,200. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,200 tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 2,201 is impervious. Amendment 2.202 is not possible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.203 tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.204. Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for the G2100 will not be put to the vote. I would just like to point out that it is the Presidency that decides whether or not a text is relevant to the context, not the rapporteur. [[Comments.]] I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u106	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment 3,200. With a view to spending reviews, reforms, rationalization and above all the use of telematic methods for which at the central level we can have the list of all members of the albums and orders, we do not understand why the provincial orders are not eliminated and the regional ones are maintained. I believe that a regional order is more than sufficient, especially with a view to the elimination of the Provinces. We are talking about metropolitan cities, about reforms, about streamlining the country's apparatus, so in my opinion Amendment 3,200 fits into this groove; instead someone still wants to maintain provincial orders. I would also like to know how many use the provincial order. Personally I am enrolled in the Order of Ancona, but I use it very little. As long as these orders are needed, that's fine, but in my opinion a regional reference is more than enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u107	Madam President, having understood very well what Senator Bianco said, namely that the implementing decrees and delegated decrees will, above all, be concerned with making voting within the orders more democratic, withdrawing amendments 3,207, 3,308 and 3,220, hoping that what is envisaged in them will be implemented in implementing decrees or delegated decrees. Amendment 3.229 proposes to add, after the words: "equipollenti or equivalent to the qualifying degree" to the words: "also achieved abroad" and serves simply to specify that the equivalence of qualifications valid for registration in a professional register should also cover those obtained abroad. On the other hand, we come to Amendment 3.0.203 which, on the basis of what has been said in general debate, is what I am most concerned about. I read Article 3-a on the establishment and definition of the profession of doctor in motor and sporting sciences. In the field of health professions, the profession of doctor in motor and sporting sciences is established. For the exercise of the health activity referred to in this paragraph, it is necessary to hold a degree in motor and sporting sciences and equivalent titles. Among other things, in paragraph 2, is excluded the equivalence of the degree in motor and sporting sciences with the degree in physiotherapy. Having said that, I have heard and appreciated very much the reply of my President of the Commission to the fact that we must be very careful about the phenomenon of the abusing of the profession. The order of doctors was established over seventy years ago and I know perfectly well that we still have cases of people practicing the abusive profession of the doctor; someone even practiced in hospital for years, and operated without a degree, before being discovered. It is clear that if I decide to put myself in the hands of a person who makes me do physical exercises that serve to prevent certain pathologies or that serve - after the physiotherapist has carried out the rehabilitation maneuvers - to maintain my optimal physical state, I claim that that person is enrolled in a register, where I can ascertain that he is a graduate in motor science. I can assure you that a few days ago I signed up - without indicating an address or telephone number - to a ploy of motor science circulating on the Internet. Therefore, if someone had looked for a graduate in motor science, in case I had put in phone number and address, he could have come to me. I would also like to add that I am one of those doctors who is very pleased that we have begun to understand that chiropractor, osteopath, physiotherapist, psychologist, doctor should not cooperate but work together, because there are so many paths, where everyone must be able to play his part, without the fear that the other person can fool a patient or part of the gain. Doing this - I want to put the dots on the i - I have no conflicts of interest. What matters to me is the patient's defense, and this must be the interest that brings us to this direction. I have openly supported the formation of a register of osteopath and chiropractor. I am told that this cannot be done because we have a balance of structure. I frankly do not understand where this balance is broken. If I have people who have a degree in motor science, doesn't this balance fail with osteopaths or chiropractors; does it fail with people who have already graduated? I repeat, I am here to defend all three categories, but above all to defend a principle: who puts his hands on the patient or does something that addresses the patient's health, must be enrolled in a register, and it is no coincidence that motor science is included in the faculty of medicine and surgery. It is clear that then we will have to improve the situation and distinguish between those who take one address and those who take another, but we cannot slam the door in the face of a measure of common sense again simply because it did not come out of the Health Commission. We all voted in the same way, so I agree with what came out of the Commission, but since we were not in the deliberative but referent, I think that when we bring a measure to the approval of this House it is because we want to try to improve it where we have not managed to find a square even because of people who offend us and want to kill ourselves. I also received certain messages; I did not respond. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] I have expressed to Senator De Biasi my regret for all the people who vulgarly defend a slice of their gain. From these I disagree because I have never been a vulgar defender of a slice of one's own gain. I'm here to defend the patient's interests, which right now are also the interests of a small category.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u108	Madam President, first of all I would like to refer to Amendment 3,203, for the benefit of the minutes and the determinations to be made by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government. After the words "in the study', in place of the word "in the case of "in the case of the case', insert the following words in the case of "in the case of the case of "in the case of the case of the case': This also seems useful to me for the subsequent evaluation and expression of the opinion of the rapporteur and the Undersecretary. I withdraw Amendments 3.212 and 3.227. In this connection, Mr President, I would like to make the request for amendment 3.227 to be amended to the agenda, which I would also like to make on behalf of my fellow Members Mrs Spilabotte and Mr Cardiello, who, if they consider it, will confirm what I am saying. They too intend to withdraw the amendments and add their signature to my agenda, which I believe, Mr President, partly sound a vulnus - recovered in the debate - regarding the need to listen to the needs of those professions which have not yet been recognised in a specific professional order. I believe that the agenda for the government to take specific measures in order to establish new professional orders for those health professions that exceed the 20,000 registered in the books is a sign of openness and willingness that peaceful the climate of tension that has been created. In addition, I believe that it opens a door to instances which must be regarded as legitimate, especially in the light of those figures which are now rooted in the health system and which rightly await the achievement of this goal, which I think should not and cannot be denied.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u109	Madam President, I would just like to say that I would like to accept Amendment No 3,207, which had been withdrawn, and, if my colleague so permits, I would like to endorse Amendment No 3.0,203.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u110	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 3.0.200, which was intended to also call for the reordering of auxiliary and health-care professions, because some of these professions were established by 1971 decrees create confusion. I had tabled this amendment in order to demonstrate the need for a broad adjustment and to stress a critical issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u111	Madam President, I would like to explain amendment 3.221. Basically this is a clarification, because the mandates of the provincial orders are carried from three to four years. To be clearer in the text, I also propose to standardise the mandates of the national orders, also bringing them from three to four years, in order to avoid the logical unevenization that would be created. The purpose of the amendment is therefore only to compare the duration of the councils of the provincial Orders with that of the councils of the national Orders.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u114	CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). I withdraw amendment 3.226.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u115	I think it is important that Amendment 3,228 can be accepted, because it would avoid running into miserable professional definitions, using terms specific to the professions that are regulated here, in order to identify different professional activities. I am referring, for example, to a caregiver who can call himself a nurse without having the title.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u118	IDEM (PD). I am speaking only to announce that I am turning Amendment 3.0.201 (already 3,201) into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u121	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would like to ask Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri to have the text that contains the three amendments that turn into agendas, so that we can appreciate it, evaluate it and then speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u124	PAGE (AP (NCD-UDC)). I would like to endorse Amendment 3.0.203. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u127	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, if my colleagues give me the floor, I would like to subscribe to Amendment 3,221, which was first signed by Senator Mandelli. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u130	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, I would like to endorse Amendment 3,228. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u133	ZIZA (CoR). I would ask you to be able to subscribe to Amendments 3.0.203 and 3.228.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u134	The Presidency takes note of this. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u135	Madam President, I apologize for showing emotional intemperance. You'd like to work with order, but it's not always possible. I am against Amendment 3,200. Amendment 3,301 has been withdrawn. I am in favour of Amendments 3,202 and 3,203, which are contrary to Amendment 3,204. The opinion is also in favour of Amendments 3,205 and 3,206, while it is against Amendment 3,207. Amendment 3.208 has been withdrawn. I am in favour of Amendment 3,209, which is against Amendments 3,210 and 3,211. Amendment 3.212 has been withdrawn. I am against Amendment 3.213 and I am in favour of Amendments 3.214 and 2.215. Amendment 3.16 is inadmissible. I am in favour of Amendments 3.217, 3.218 and 3.219. Amendment 3.20 has been withdrawn. Amendment 3.221 considered it to be similar to amendment 3.219 and, therefore, in the event of the second amendment being adopted it will be the same as that adopted. I am against Amendments 3.222 and 3.223, which are in favour of Amendment 3.224. Amendments 3.225, 3.226 and 3.227 have been withdrawn and transformed into a single agenda, G3.227, on which I am in favour. I am against Amendments 3.228 and 3.229. Amendments 3.230, 3.231, 3.232 and 3.233 are unacceptable. I give a favourable opinion on the G3.100 agenda with the following rewording: in the system, replace the words 'Government': 'Government' with the following 'Government' to assess the appropriateness of 'Government'.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u136	Senator Silvestro, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the G3.100 agenda outlined above? SILVESTRO (PD). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u137	On the agenda, Mr G3.101, I am voting in favour of the following rewording: in replacing the words 'to deal urgently' with the following: 'to consider the opportunity to deal with', by deleting the word 'urgently', which seemed improper to us on an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u138	I would ask Senator Mattesini if he accepts the proposed rewording of the G3.101 agenda outlined above. MATTESINI (PD). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u139	I give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G3,102 and G3,103.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u140	I am in agreement with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u143	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would ask you to be able to sign the G3.227 agenda of Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u146	Rossi Luciano (AP (NCD-UDC)). I would ask you to subscribe to Senator Mandelli's amendment 3.221 and to Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri's first signature on 3.219. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u149	De Biasi, rapporteur. Madam President, Amendment 3,203, on which we voted in favour, has the obligation to clarify the rewording, which is as follows: "with the local authorities in the study and implementation of measures". The presenter, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, had already said this, but I did not mention it when expressing the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u150	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,200. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,200, tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3,301 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,202 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,203 (correct text), tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.204.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u153	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Madam President, this amendment seeks to make known the candidates who must be elected in the Order of Doctors, simply asking to publish the list of names for at least three months. Otherwise, it often happens that you don't even know who you vote for and who you run for. In addition, I would ask that the electronic voting procedure be provided for, which would enable us to meet a requirement that has been stressed several times this morning, that of having a greater representativeness of the members. In fact, laziness often makes it difficult to vote. The possibility of voting in a telematic way means that there is an obvious advantage in recognizing the same authority as the representatives of the Orders, as well as producing a method of simplification and a procedure of election and social construction more modern structures and orders. Since we do not want, in a measure where we want to modernise the vision and make it more in line with European parameters, to anchor ourselves to old mechanisms, it is necessary, in my opinion, that every Order promotes an adequate publicity of candidates, in order to make them recognizable to the members who are called to express themselves, as well as another mechanism, that is to propose and suggest the expression of a maximum of five preferences. Today it happens that there are blockages of lists, of 15 or more names, with the cancellation of the cards if instead a smaller number is reported. If there is opposition to this amendment, I am prepared to turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u154	I would ask the rapporteur whether she is in favour of turning Amendment 3.204 into an agenda. De Biasi, rapporteur. No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.204, tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,205 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,206 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,207.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u157	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, on Amendment 3,207, I would like to ask for a separate vote on paragraphs 2-a, 2-b and 2-c.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u158	Such request shall not be admissible. There is no autonomous content either. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Who said that? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's what the presidency says, Senator. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,207, tabled by Senator Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.208 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,209 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.210, tabled by Senator Scilipoti Isgrò. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,211.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u161	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, on Amendment 3,211 I would like to ask for a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u162	It can be done. Are there any objections from the House? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, I assume you're against this. Right? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I am against this, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for a separate vote on Amendment 3,211. Verification of Calderoli quorum (LN-Aut). I'm asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1324, 154, 693, 725, 818, 829 and 833 president. I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on Amendment 3,211 tabled by Senator Calderoli. It's not approved. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,211, tabled by Senator Scilipoti Isgrò. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.212 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.13 tabled by Senator Scilipoti Isgrò. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 3.14 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,215 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.16 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,217 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,218, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,219, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.221 is absorbed. Amendment 3.20 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.222, tabled by Senator Scilipoti Isgrò. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,223 tabled by Senator Scilipoti Isgrò. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 3.224 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.225 and 3.226 have been withdrawn. Amendment 3.227 has been changed to agenda G3.227. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.228, tabled by Senator Silvestro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.229, tabled by Senator Romani Maurizio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.230, 3.231, 3.232 and 3.233 are unacceptable. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G3.227, G3.100 (text 2), G3.101 (text 2), G3.102 and G3.103 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B) I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u165	TREMONTI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, Senators, perhaps we should expect the exodus of those who are leaving the Chamber. [[Brusio.]] In any case, I have an interest in speaking for acts and for those who must, stops gratitude for those who remain. On 17 May, we received a letter from the President of the Senate who, out of due knowledge, sent us a letter from the Minister for Economic Development. The subject of the letter is the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP). In the letter, the Minister informs us that he is leading the formation of the national position on the agreement. I believe that we must give him recognition for this objective, but it must be said that it is the first time, in the history of this country, that on international treaties a Minister has displaced and replaced the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This is destructive of a constitutional order. With courtesy the Minister himself, the leader, informs us of the opening at his Dicastery of a reading room for which parliamentarians are offered the opportunity to consult the confidential documentation. The leader informs us that the aim is to ensure maximum transparency and dissemination. In fact, the maximum transparency and diffusion are - just read the form - the maximum realization of the secret. I'll point out a few points. First, the hall is guarded by the Carabinieri's weapon. Secondly, there are two four-hour shifts for three days. Every senator is still entitled to a single one-hour shift. The senator must declare the actual need to know the text, so it is imagined that one may want to transmit information to a foreign power, or organize an anarchist procession or something else. The senator must declare his personal responsibility: perhaps he forgets that Article 68 of the Constitution is still in force and not yet reformed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), M5S, FI-PdL XVII, Misto-SI-SEL and CoR]] In peace, I would point out that this matter is also the responsibility of the new Senate, because it has something to do with membership of the European Union. It is forbidden, of course, to reproduce the text, it is allowed to take note of it by hand, but it is forbidden that the note contains the same text as the document that is offered for maximum transparency and consultation. I would also suggest that with the Minister, if he is available, he draw a piece of those and explain it to us: we will see if he will be able to do so, given the very cryptic character of those texts. In conclusion, I respect the position of the United States of America, but I have many difficulties in respecting the European and national position. There has been a phase in history in which treaties have been secret and that is a phase that has led to tragic outcomes in the wake of the Great War. Treaties cannot be secret: negotiation can be secret, but the text of the Treaties cannot be secret. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), M5S, FI-PdL XVII, Misto-SI-SEL and CoR and Senator Mussini]] Here we have a middle way, that is, it is almost secret and it is almost public, through a procedure that demonstrates the dynamism of the Minister, but also historical anachronism and I must say that in politics and between states there is only one thing that is fearsome most of all: ridiculous. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), M5S, FI-PdL XVII, Misto-SI-SEL and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u166	I just want to inform you that procedures are probably the same in all European countries.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u169	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, thank you for allowing me to add my words to the much more authoritative words of Senator Tremonti. It took an authoritative speech like yours to try to get this House to record the embarrassment that I believe we have all tried to read yesterday that letter, with the procedures so written, that they are certainly forerunners at the very least of misunderstandings, when not of tragedies announced. Apart from the merit of a content that we do not know, but which we would also like to know how to share, I think it is appropriate to make a motion in the Senate, so that the President of the Senate will be a representative of the parliamentarians, who claim to know - not in that formula, not in that way, but in a much more transparent way - the true content of this agreement. I remember very well the European Commissioner when, at a hearing convened by President Chiti, she regretted the mistake made by the European Commission, which at that stage made available the content of the ongoing negotiations on TTIP - look a bit - at the offices of the American embassies in the European countries and not, for example, at the seat of the European Union in each of the acceding countries. Madam President, we will take care, we will take care of the opposition, we will call the Italian Parliament's right to maximum transparency and full involvement. [[Applause from the CoR and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u172	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I would like to join in the call of my fellow Members and make this request even more substantial, highlighting other important points of this directive for consultation, which has come to us from the neo-minister Calenda. The legislation to which the Minister refers is the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 6 November 2015 laying down provisions for the administrative protection of state secrecy and classified and exclusive disclosure information and the Law on the Information System for the security of the Republic and new rules of secrecy. I would like to remind all the citizens who are listening to us right now - because of course it is not necessary to remind you, ladies and gentlemen - that we are talking about an agreement which, in theory, should concern trade. In fact, on the last page, it is specified who will be able to access: certainly we parliamentarians, but not all, only those who have the real need to know this information. The 5 Star Movement has been fighting this treaty for years, which will be destructive to our economy. We believe that the people who really need to know this treaty and the content of the negotiations are all Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u175	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I agree with what my fellow Members have said, partly because I believe that the letter we have received has left us all, both senators and parliamentarians, to say the least dismayed. I would like to point out that the part that would be consultable, in these strange forms, is only the one that has already been approved. There is yet another totally secret part to which, as you can see, we cannot access in any way. Madam President, there is a problem here. The TTIP will cover not only the economy of our country and national interests, but also the health of the citizens, so we are dealing with the topic at the end of the session, but there is a problem that concerns our competences as parliamentarians and I believe that there is still a need, on the part of the President of the Senate, to intervene. I would like to ask you, what is doing with it at the moment: in your opinion, what happens to us if we introduce ourselves there and do not obey all the prescriptions that have been indicated by the neominister. Carabinieri arrest us? What happens to Members of Parliament? The question, as you well understand, could have very serious consequences, not only for the impact on Article 68 of the Constitution, but really and substantially on the role of national parliaments. I believe that this issue should be fully addressed and I call on you, Madam President, to convene a meeting of the group leaders, because the dignity of the Senate and the House is also at stake on this issue (because the treatment, as you know, is identical). [[Applause from Senator Bell.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u176	I'll definitely report to the President of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u179	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I refer back to Mr De Petris' speech. I think that the President of the Senate and the President of the House should look into the rights of parliamentarians in our country in relation to the acts of government, and that is all. They must give us clear explanations; whether to discuss this at the Conference of the Leaders or not depends on the modalities, but it is right that the country should know the President of the Senate and the President of the House what they think are the powers of the parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u182	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, may I add that on 14 October 2014, Mr Renzi, President of the Council, said that the Italian Government fully and unconditionally supports TTIP. Unconditional in relations between states there is only surrender when a war is lost; perhaps we have lost some of them without knowing it. There must be transparency on what has led to the unconditional surrender of our Republic. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and CoR groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u185	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I believe that it is appropriate for the Senate and the House to make their own assessments of the issue that has been so fully put forward by Senator Tremonti. I would like to make two points. Firstly, Senator Tremonti is right when he says that the treaties must be public and negotiations can be reserved. In this particular case, we are in the middle of a negotiation in which there are parts of the Treaty that are not carried out, so we are in a condition that is not completed and not definitively defined by the Treaty and with a negotiation that is in progress and that requires delicacy in information. Secondly, it is true that the procedure is rather cumbersome and I think that respect for the role of Parliament and Members of Parliament must always be reaffirmed, especially with regard to the Government. However, we are faced with a procedure which makes the Treaty in its present structure accessible and accessible to Parliament and which puts Parliament in a position to ask the Government, at any time, for clarification through the traditional procedures of dialogue between the Government and Parliament. In all cases, if the President of the Senate and the President of the House want to have special attention to the modalities rather than the content of the Treaty (because we are having a political and not methodological debate on the content of the Treaty), there would be no resistance on our part. I would like to say that a thoughtful and reasonable attitude should lead us all to reflect on why the Minister has been in these terms during a negotiation, with a part of the negotiations concluded. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u188	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I would like to point out to Mr Sangalli that the prudence he is asking for should lead the Government to avoid definitive judgments, because if it is true that we are in a temporary situation where all these attentions are needed, to give definitive and in some way completed judgments, it clearly contradicts the reasons for prudence that arise. Secondly, when there is such a situation, it does not make consultation difficult, it does not stop in the middle of the ford, it is not said to be secret but it is public, indeed it is a little public and a little secret and if you can not understand anything it is so much better. In these cases, obviously, there is a direct instrument, to which Senator Sangalli himself referred, and that is, I believe there are all the extremes for the Senate to call the Minister for Foreign Affairs to report. It will be the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to say a few things and to keep others quiet, but this is a clear process. What has been adopted, frankly, is not only opaque but even ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u189	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u191	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the Group of the North Legacy cannot but agree with the need for the Minister for Foreign Affairs to come to this House and report on this situation. The message we have received is signed by the new Minister, Mr Calenda, but here, as has already been said, of course, it is foreign affairs and, moreover, in ways that do not take account not of mere dignity, but of the role of democratically elected representatives of the people, of parliamentarians. In here we have no desire to know the cards for pleasure or for news, but for a fair relationship with the citizens. Denying or restricting access to documents is an unconstitutional practice, because I would like to see what would happen when any Member of this House reveals those documents. It would be an act of pure democracy, just as it would be an act of pure oppression of democratic law if this were prevented. Madam President, I repeat the concept: the Minister for Foreign Affairs will come to this House and report as a matter of urgency on these, at least bizarre, forms of consultation. We believe that the government must make this documentation fully available to Parliament and the citizens, not realizing, moreover, a paradox, that the papers have already been made publicly known, even in the press, in recent days. So to limit further is to put a patch which is much worse than what Mr Calenda evidently wanted to write in his missive. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u192	You know you can ask the President to convene the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u195	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the legislative references that have been made are such that, if a colleague who is going to see those papers discloses them, he will be sentenced to at least three years in prison. I have been in this condition for a month, because, having viewed the cards of thirty-six years ago, relating to May-June 1980 (Ustica and Bologna), knowing their contents and having been able to record them, I have been warned several times from making them public (after thirty-six years), risking a sentence at least to three years in prison. This is completely unjustifiable, because it is no longer a state secret. The same procedure is used to say that we can go and see them, but that we must keep the content for ourselves and we cannot disclose it, because we would be criminally prosecutable. I find it scandalous that, after 36 years, we cannot reveal documents that would clarify so much about the history of Italy. I say this because you cannot be accused of being deportees, as I read publicly from Bologna every day. The cards are kept covered and you cannot compare with the public opinion on who is really the deportee. In this case you can go and see, but you can't have a debate, you can't make the contents of these cards public to the citizens and you can't compare them on it. So be careful, because the risk for those who, after seeing the cards, disclose them or talk about them publicly is a criminal complaint.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u198	You finally have the word, Senator Bencini. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). I'm sure it was very interesting what we talked about. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen (the ten remaining, or even eleven), the words 'freedom', 'democracy' and 'transparency' are all ethereal, indefinite, even ambiguous concepts, where they do not correspond to principles, norms, limits, rules and procedures capable of giving them a body, a coherence, a symbolic universe of reference. It would not be a House of a Parliament of a democratic state if there were no Rules of Procedure to be respected, based on democratic principles. There cannot be an organization that claims to be democratic and that is not regulated according to rules consistent with democratic principles. What happened recently to the mayor of Parma Federico Pizzarotti, an honest and coherent person, is only yet another example of how the second political force of the country uses out of proportion noble words such as "transparency" and is dedicated instead to hit every internal voice capable of critical or dialectical thought, reaching to invent rules or procedures contra personam, in order to take out those who do not align. The Movement, born to promote democracy from below, has become the party of the bispensiero, that is, of that psychological mechanism, described by Orwell, that allows to support an idea and its opposite, so as never to be outside of orthodoxy. So you can believe to promote democracy from below, by being commanded and led by one or two people (even by dynasty). Pizzarotti is the testimony of the Movement as it was meant to be, as it was born. For this reason the time had long come to eliminate politically, isolate, hide, delete, delegitimize Pizzarotti and abandon him to oblivion. You MEPs - who are obviously not there, because they want to work from Monday to Friday, but then, when there are the days agreed, there are no days in this House, but they go away as fast as grasshoppers - in all cases, you MPs of the 5 Star Movement were deluded, with the announcement of the step backwards of Grillo. Take note, however: with the attack on Pizzarotti definitively dies in your party the idea of yourself, rather betray yourselves. Of course, however, you are never attached to the chair, as you often use to say to others, because of course the chair does not give privilege; but I think it is also a privilege for them to be in these classrooms. But they give themselves to the fact that they are the purest; however, the day will come when there will be someone purer than pure. [[Applause from Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-630.ana.u199	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 14.11 a.m.
