ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the document: Request for resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings (No 119/16 RGNR-1234/16 RG GIP) against Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso, transmitted by the tribunal of Enna. I would remind you that the rapporteur, Senator Augello, spoke in yesterday's afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u9	Mr President, first of all I would like to reassure everyone that there has been no rescue, as some of the poor minds yesterday dared to say; like other colleagues I was simply on a mission and asked to be present at the debate which concerns me and which concerns you. But yesterday, in a shameful way, everything was done in this House to silence me once again, to prevent me from participating in this debate! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from Senator Di Biagio. Comments from PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE Groups)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u10	Easy, fellas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u11	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Why did you do this with a deliberate intention: to prevent me from speaking? [[Comments from the PD Group]] , because you, who have seen the cards and know the matter well, know what documents and what papers I would have spoken of, what shameful shame you have stained. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u12	Senator Giarrusso, I'll call you back.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u13	I invite everyone to calm down. Let us proceed with the agenda. Please, Senator Giarrusso. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, please allow me to speak... Sure. GIARRUSSO (M5S). ...and not to continue yesterday's work, thank you. [[Comments of Cardinal Senators and Cociancich.]] The shame we are talking about is committed in the electoral campaign by a candidate from the PD, who showed up at a meeting overlooking a balcony with a subject of weight next door in the criminal history of the Province of Enna: that is what you did not want to hear. Mr Manconi (PD). No, we heard him. GIARRUSSO (M5S). This gentleman, whose name is Giannitto, has a criminal record one and a half pages long, as the record shows. We read in the proceedings: multiple prejudiced, arrested for abuse of firearms and convicted; arrested for illicit trafficking and drug dealing; arrested together with one of the thirty most dangerous Mafia criminals, the fugitive Di Fazio, sentenced to life imprisonment for murder of a servant of the State. These are the people you bring around in the rallies, on the stage of your electoral committee! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Cardinals]] Well, Giannitto, proposed for special surveillance, condemned for helping the aforementioned mobster, is nothing compared to the rest of his family, he is just one. Because it happens that this Mr. Giannitto is also married to a lady named Scaminaci. Well, we have an Anthony Scaminaci, a multiple victim, arrested in the Province of Enna in the anti-mafia operation "Green Line," sentenced to nine years and eight months definitively for the crime referred to in article 416- bis, association to criminals of the mafia. We then also have Giovanni Scaminaci, another person arrested in the same operation, definitively sentenced to six years under the same 416-a. But the Scaminaci are not finished: there is then Massimiliano Scaminaci, considered by the Forces of the Order and by the judiciary to head in the Province of Enna of an association dedicated to what? To drug trafficking and sentenced to ten years, he and two other newly arrested: Antonio and Giuseppe Scaminaci. We are therefore to five members of the Scaminaci family, who are relatives of Giannetto's wife, who are inside and outside the prison patriae and the courtrooms for serious crimes. And what does your candidate do? He denounces me for saying that it is intolerable to exhibit subjects contiguous to organized crime. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Too bad! GIARRUSSO (M5S). This is an offense to our country that you will have to answer in courtrooms because in a normal country your candidate mayor should answer for his attendances. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But this is not a normal country. It is a country in which people come here and say (about a Member of Parliament, a member of the Anti-Mafia Commission, coordinator of the Mafia Committee infiltration into territorial institutions and local authorities, whom you know well because my questions and speeches all go in one direction) that the question about Enna's events was put too late. Sure! Just to find all this material on all these people, it takes a DIA investigation, not just a congressman. And instead it's instrumental, as if I'd offended someone and presented the question just to cover for me. No, we don't want to cover up. You have reduced to a disgust - because this proves the people - the institutions provided for in our Constitution. [[Comments from the PD Group]] You have tainted our Constitution with the abuse you have made of institutions to protect parliamentary prerogatives. They are now seen as an abuse and we do not want to do anything about it. I will invite my colleagues to vote against indisputability because you in the courts will be condemned, not me, you will be condemned for this and for the other facts! [[Live applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group. Laughter]] You must be ashamed! It's useless for you to hug, Cociancich, you slaughtered the Constitution and for that you will be remembered, shamed! Go outside and see what the citizens tell you right. Shame on you! [[Protests from the PD Group. Comments of Senators Airola and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u14	Senator Giarrusso, continue your speech without direct absentumelias addressed to other colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u15	GIARRUSSO (M5S). I am not ashamed of the accusations that are being made by people who are going around with these people and campaigning for immunity because your candidate, congresswoman and criminal lawyer knows well that going around with a multiple-prejudiced person does not pose any risk because it cannot be intercepted. But we are patient and we know that the judiciary will arrive, will also arrive in Agira and will arrive here, will also come to you. In the meantime, we will be judged by the citizens, like you. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u16	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen, Mr Giarrusso's speeches are, in this House and outside the Chamber, a little out of tune, let us say that. Mr Manconi (PD). Comics, mostly. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Having said that, however, I believe that, in the meantime, a balance must be restored between the various issues. The first balance we should try to re-establish is between words and deeds, which are different. The words, inside and outside of this House, are clear, and they are the ones that appeared during the meetings, on the network and will be in the synographical reports of this House as have been in the Reports of this House also the facts. I would remind the Presidency - not to you, Mr Gasparri, but to the President of the Senato Grasso - that I have made a complaint with other colleagues about fellow senators who, in this House, have prevented the exercise of a fundamental right for a Parliament: that of voting; that exercise which has been long prevented. Well, those who have simply taken disciplinary internal measures have been harmed by a precise article in the penal code, which is the attack on the functioning of constitutional bodies. But - I repeat - there is a difference between words and deeds. The words are obvious; politicians should live in and out of the House of Words and play their institutional role, certainly avoiding offensive statements. But, ladies and gentlemen, we in this House have had to suffer all sorts of things, even this morning. During these years, in the 17th legislature, during the time I was present, the dignity of this House and the good repute of individual Members were repeatedly attacked without any kind of activity affecting those who made those statements free and unproved. Having said that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in the context of those who carry out an activity such as that which we must carry out we can also allow an excess of tone, an excess of political arrogance, such as that which is often shown. But there is one point, Mr President, which I think needs to be clarified: if I have tabled a parliamentary question on one subject, I have constitutional cover, if I have not presented it, I do not have such cover. The undersigned should then have the constitutional cover to insult anyone, having submitted dozens and dozens of questions, having taken dozens and dozens of legislative initiatives, signed motions of all kinds: I could afford to insult anyone, on the basis of this interpretation of the Court and on the basis of the interpretation of the Junta on the case at our examination. I believe, Mr President, that this cannot be the case: either there is freedom of insult always or there is no freedom of insult ever. It is not that one can parade the posterior simply with a parliamentary activity. Even invoking the arguments I made yesterday on other issues, Article 68 must ensure full coverage of opinions, because that is the only way to exercise the free exercise of the political-parliamentary function. If criticism cannot be hard, if criticism cannot go on tone, most of the time it remains unnoticed. Beware that there is a justification for the rather violent activity from the verbal point of view of the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement. Yesterday in this House there was a very serious debate on the Berlusconi issue; well, if you read today's newspapers of the real debate there is not a word, except on one case: the legal positions that were expressed in this House yesterday did not appear. The principles, ladies and gentlemen, are then used conveniently by the press, this House and the Junta: this is unacceptable. I've said it several times in Junta: there can't be two meters and two sizes. Mr Giarrusso, as always, goes on tone, as he has done today too, but it is not for this reason that we must use the metre of candiness or insinuability to punish him for this attitude or to punish those who exceed in tone on these issues. On the other hand, the issue is different when I am prevented from exercising my right to vote, which - I repeat - has been done in this House and the denunciation by the judiciary, with the cover of the President of the Senate, there has been no answer but that of the fresh water of disciplinary measures. For these reasons, Mr President, I am about to give Mr Giarrusso the indisputability, whether he has asked for it or not, but he has asked for it, because in the proceedings of the Junta there is his memory in which he says: I am innocent. And my colleague, Mr Giarrusso, probably is, too. The reasons that my colleague has set out - I may say - are also acceptable, but there is one point on which I am firmly convinced: he cannot give up the constitutional cover. If you want, go to the judge, after we have voted for indisputability, to say that you give up, but you can't do that in this House, where we have to give him the constitutional cover. [[Applause from Senators Amati, Granaiola, Manconi and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u18	Senator Buemi, of course I can't go into the matter. You know that, in cases of conflicts of attribution, there are decisions of the Court which have been made on the concept of opinions expressed. Then, when I am in another position in this House, I will say what I think; now, of course, I am limited to that. He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u19	Mr President, my group in this House will vote according to everyone's conscience. This matter cannot be entrusted to a line indicated by the Group: it is such a delicate matter and concerns the personal positions of each senator who cannot have a party indication. Yesterday I was saddened, indeed, when I saw that the parliamentary groups, even in secret voting, voted in a very compact way, now in one, now in the other direction. Personally, again this morning as far as Senator Giarrusso is concerned, I allowed myself to speak with my Parent Company, Senator Barani, to give an indication of vote that is free and responsive to the emotions of one's conscience. Senator Giarrusso, I will vote for the indisputability, because you see, Senator, I think I can share that orientation, also supported by the Senate itself in the courts, that the concept of indisputability must be interpreted as widely as possible. It concerns, as far as I am concerned, not a prerogative, but a freedom of expression of a political criticism, which can sometimes also be bound up in statements that may have the tone of offense now, but now of criminal facts; but what matters to me is the spirit with which certain sentences and statements are pronounced, even if they may harm the dignity and personality of others. Senator Giarrusso used expressions - as Mr Buemi said - with strong tones, but Senator Giarrusso always uses strong tones; he should end up in trial, then, whenever he uses strong tones, but I do not think that the strong tone is a crime for which one can be judged and possibly condemned. However, I do not agree with the well-established approach that the Senate Council should simply, in a very limited and limited way, monitor whether or not there is a connection with the parliamentary activity of the conduct of individual senators even outside the Assembly. I would not agree very much with this line either because a minimum examination of the merits of the accusation, in my opinion, must be done, and in this case I think I can share what Senator Giarrusso said in his notes, when he spoke of genericity of recipients. In other words, Senator Giarrusso made the names of subjects who documentally reported sentences of condemnation, so much so that they did not sue him: if they had sued him, probably Giarrusso could have shown that his statement was correct, because there was actually a sentence of condemnation; for others, however, Giarrusso did not give express, direct indications. To say: "To accompany you with" is not a crime, as Giarrusso himself said; therefore, if I accompany you with a mobster I do not commit a crime until with that mobster I have a particular relationship of business or commission of crimes. It is obvious, however, that it is not pleasant, it is not nice to accompany with mobsters; therefore, if someone does, even if he does not commit crimes, however he exposes himself to political criticism and that is what Giarrusso did: he has politically criticized the closeness of a politician with subjects that documentally turn out to be responsible for serious crimes and in particular of mafia. I shall conclude, therefore, Mr President, by saying that I will vote for this indisputability myself, but I believe that my statement and my vote should serve as a lesson to you, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, if I may modestly, because in other cases too you all try to activate in your minds those motions that come from the conscience, from the intimacy of the person and in the future do not allow yourselves to be evoked again by rigid principles to which you sometimes show that you are bound. I hope that my statement, my suggestion and my vote can be a statement of principles of guarantee and protection of the Senate, once again also on this day, but they can also be - and this is what is most important and important to me - a lesson of style and behaviour for colleagues of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u20	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Senator Carraro's comments.]] Senator Carraro, I'm following the order of demands. This is a Parliament where we can speak: those who ask to do so speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u21	Mr President, first of all I would like to make it clear to the House that if we are here, it is because Mr Giarrusso has asked explicitly: we are here because Mr Giarrusso, in a judicial act, has asked for his proceedings to be interrupted and it is the Senate Assembly that has established the soliability of his claims. It is my colleague, Mr Giarrusso, who has asked this House to give its opinion on the irreconcilability of his statements. We must therefore start from this principle, otherwise we would not be here to debate and vote on the case. Having said that, however, I would call the Assembly to a consistency of behavior, according to which, as it voted yesterday for the indistinguishability of the statements of Senator Stefano Esposito (who, not as a senator but as a city councilman, had seriously offended the honor and reputation of three executives of the company that was presiding), in the same way makes a reasoning as reported by Senator Giarrusso. To the colleague of AL-A I say that if what my colleague Mr Giarrusso said were confirmed, it would cost that colleague a few years in prison, because Senator Giarrusso did not make a generic statement, but he said (and then wrote) that the presence of a mobster on the balcony was an intimidating act through which votes were collected in favour of that lady. This would affect three or four articles of the penal code (vote of mafia political exchange and so on), so if it were true, the colleague would be arrested, imprisoned and condemned, as has happened to other colleagues in this House. Then put yourself in the shoes of a candidate mayor or a parliamentarians who are attributed the fact of covering up with mobsters to take votes and then violate the penal code: it is clear that he must react, he cannot pretend not to hear. She is told: "You are elected by the vows of the mob, you perform the mobster to intimidate people and do not react? It is clear that he must defend his good repute and sue. Mr Giarrusso did not have to ask for inindacibility, but he had to go to the trial and prove that he was able to prove these very serious claims to a colleague. So also Senator Stefano Esposito, at a time when, as city councilman, he seriously offended the reputation of three leading citizens, should have responded to it in the trial. What do we do instead? Yesterday we absolve Senator Stefano Esposito because his statements are unavoidable, because he has behind him a strong party that decides this way, being one of his own; today that party - if it were coherent - should declare the unassailability of the statements of Senator Giarrusso, that is, should behave in the same way. On the other hand, I have the impression that the jurisprudence of this Junta in this parliamentary term does not correspond to criteria of impartiality, but only of party convenience. When I arrived in the House they declared my statements as Minister of the Republic and then as parliamentarians on a specific case on which I extended myself, they said that it was true that I had spoken - and repeatedly - of that case as Minister, but they added that the exact phrase that I had said in parliamentary acts, even if it was pages and pages, was not there, so it was tradeable. That story ended in nothing, because without me apologizing that lawsuit was withdrawn. I would therefore like to understand from my colleagues in the Junta what kind of justice we are pursuing in Junta and in this House. When historians and scholars go to see in this legislature - among other things presided over by an illustrious magistrate - the type of jurisprudence that is carried out by the Junta, they will discover that convenience always prevails over justice and general principles. I said it yesterday and I repeat it. I, like Senator Buemi, believe that when a Member of Parliament, either in the Chamber or outside the Chamber or in the Porta del Porta or in a meeting, expresses political judgements, he must always be covered. It is right that we should go into conflict of attribution with the Constitutional Court when it says the solemn nonsense that if the opinion is expressed in the Assembly or in an act of inspection union or in a parliamentary committee, it is covered, while if it is said ten meters outside the Chamber, perhaps commenting on a coup d'état, the fact of Vienna or a massacre such as that of Nice, in that case the political opinion is debatable. It is a thing that is neither in heaven nor on earth. We must always defend the right of the Member to exercise his function; but never defend the right of the Member who is not a right, as in the case of Sgarbi. Why did the Constitutional Court change its case law? The Constitutional Court for thirty years had never been a union on decisions of the House and Senate. When the House and Senate decided that one of their members' behaviors was indisputable, the Constitutional Court took note of it, perhaps looked at whether the procedure was correct, but never entered into the substance. Then came Sgarbi, who in the television program "Daily garbage," with incontinence, earned 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 lawsuits, sometimes for expressed opinions and sometimes because he quarreled with a vigilante and offended him with unrepeatable epithets. It is clear that the Constitutional Court has said that if a Member offends a vigilante he is obviously out of his hands. The Court, therefore, has come to review the statements made by Members outside the Assembly. But it is we who must put a limit between the opinions expressed outside and the insults or attributions of facts determined by a Member of Parliament towards other people, as in the case of Esposito and our colleague of the 5 Star Movement. We cannot say, yesterday, that an offensive statement is inevitable against three people and say, today, that it is tradeable because it concerns a colleague of the 5 Star Movement. I would like someone to explain to me how it is possible for an organism like this House to fall on similar facts, making choices that are diametrically opposed according to the Group of belonging, sympathy or antipathy. When we have to judge, we cannot do this on the grounds that a colleague is more or less sympathetic or more or less targeted at political revenge. On the mob, I know very well that in Sicily it infiltrates wherever there is power. The Mafia infiltrates any party, body or association. Just look at the history of the great leaders of the anti-mafia in the last six months. The leaders of the anti-Mafia were all, or almost all, indicted for collusion with the mobsters. Sicily is a difficult and piradellian land. So, no wonder there are 360 degree infiltrations. I am surprised, however, who continues to tell the story that the Mafia in Sicily would exist only in certain political sectors and not in others. As I said in the Commission the other day, someone should explain to me why in Naples or Palermo, when in the camorrist or mafia neighborhoods the PD candidate receives 80% of the votes, those are blessed votes and when, in the same neighborhoods, 80% of the votes receive a candidate not of the PD, they are mafia votes. Someone should explain to me this reading of reality. Colleagues, if there is a consensus today, I think we will have made the right choice, because Mrs Greco has the sacrosanct right to defend herself in the trial from infamous accusations that could cost her prison or, in any case, a very serious accusation against her as that of a mafia vote. But that would mean that we did everything wrong yesterday! The invitation I make then is that the President of the Senate should also raise the question of whether there is any point in a Junta and a Assembly which, with their vote, decide on a proper and even a parliamentary case-law that has some consistency. Otherwise, we do not really make a great figure outside, but rather, we look like those who, instrumentally, use criteria that should be of justice only to make political polemics and make partial choices. These are the reasons why I voted yesterday in favour of the unionability of Senator Stefano Esposito's statements and for which I will vote today in favour of the unionability of Mr Giarrusso's statements.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u22	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u23	Mr President, I was very pleased that yesterday's voting arrangements led Senator Giarrusso to speak. I did not like the tones he used, but I think it is useful that the one who is judged is heard, even if - I repeat - I do not share the tones at all. Secondly, it seems to me that this is a political struggle, a political struggle whose tone I do not share. But it is political struggle and, then, it seems to me that the inindacability is sacrosanct. We must remember, in fact, that what politicians say - say it in a way that we like or do not like and share it or not - must be said. Freedom is based above all on the possibility of expressing one's own opinions. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u24	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u25	Mr President, I would like to point out very schematically what happened in Junta. In truth, Senator Giarrusso had initially asked for the indisputability in the case, repeating then this request that would obviously open in the same Junta a discussion according to the usual canons. Senator Giarrusso's question, about which he spoke this morning, is also recalled in his memory. And, always out of duty to report, it is worth remembering that it arrived, in February of this year, nine months after the events that took place in May 2015. That is not the problem, however. The point is that, perhaps still late - but these are personal choices of Senator Giarrusso, which must be respected - just before starting the general discussion and arriving at the vote Senator Giarrusso expressed, through a press agency (which has been confirmed by his colleagues in the Group), the will to give up the indistinguishability, asking for the Junta to pronounce itself in this way. Evidently, even in order to respect his will, we have heard, surely with tones too bright (as Senator Carraro has already wisely said), that perhaps we could avoid (in respect that we should bring each other), Senator Giarrusso say, again this morning, that he wants to be heard and evaluated by the judge. This seems to us to be an extremely correct decision. It will be the judge - to whom we reserve the usual confidence that we have always given to the judiciary - who will assess the matter. As Senator Giovanardi also said, the counterpart will thus have the opportunity to make his reasons felt. For this reason, we shall vote for the dissonability of Senator Giarrusso's statements and, therefore, for the rapporteur's proposal. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u26	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u27	Mr President, I would like to remind you of the words spoken yesterday by the rapporteur, Mr Augello, who pointed out to us that for three times Mr Giarrusso has asked for the application of the insindicability regime (twice with the two pleadings filed in Junta and once in court). Then, however, at the sitting of 6 July last, Senator Crimi pointed out that Giarrusso - therefore Giarrusso did not say it directly, but sent it to say - declared to the press the non-application of the regime of insindacability, as also reiterated today. I wonder, then, what the real thought of Giarrusso is. Is that what is reiterated three times (twice in Junta and one before the judge) or the one expressed before the press and, today, in the Assembly? This question may not seem relevant, because the real question is as follows: has Mr Giarrusso been asked publicly to say that he does not want to enjoy the prerogative of inconvenience? [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] I am afraid that a colleague who is not free sits here, because he is forced by someone to take positions and make choices that do not correspond to his true will. He must say certain things that he does not think in his heart. If that were not the case, we would not have come to this, as Mr Giovanardi has also pointed out. In addition, Giarrusso appealed to the Group to vote to proceed and therefore against the application of the insindicability regime. He did not, however, appeal to all the parliamentary groups, because he hopes to be saved by others, because - in his heart - he does not want to give up on enjoying the indisputability. I would therefore like to understand why Giarrusso imposes such a pantomime on us, in addition to his statements. Returning to the report, it has been said why we should proceed or not. I have to rely on the consistent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, reiterated in several judgments. We know that the functional link with the parliamentary mandate is based on two requirements, of which I want to read because perhaps we are forgetting them a little. First of all, there must be a substantial correspondence of content between the opinions expressed outside and the opinions expressed in the parliamentary classrooms. Clearly, with regard to the subject of the Mafia, this is undeniable for my colleague Mr Giarrusso, who is a member of the Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of the Mafia and whose political history confirms this. And I wouldn't doubt that. We must, however, focus on the people you mentioned today. Honestly, this is the first time I have heard your particular interest in a member of the House of Deputies, rather than the other people you have mentioned today. We must therefore look at the second requirement, namely the existence of a temporal link - as written in the report - between parliamentary activity and the symmetrical external activity, so that the latter assumes a popular aspect compared to the first. In this sense, we have absolutely no element, except the famous parliamentary question, which was made several months later. Giarrusso - he said just now - justified himself saying that he did it later, because only after a few months he had enough elements to be able to write it, since it is complex issues that only the Anti-Mafia Investigative Directorate can deal with and he, therefore, took longer. The question I ask myself is: on what basis did you then make those statements that cost him the complaint? About feelings? About what information? That doesn't leave us alone. In my opinion, there is no temporal link between the two activities and, therefore, justice must absolutely take its course, and we must allow the competent court to continue its work. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u28	Senator Scalia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u29	Mr President, I would like to speak because I was touched by the accusations made by Senator Giarrusso, at least to this part of this House. MARTON (M5S). Mr President, at the end of the sitting! SCALIA (PD). The accusations of collusion with the Mafia and of all being criminals were addressed to this part of the House. I then listened to the debate, entirely permeated by hyper-guaranteeism that risks confusing the plans, because guaranteeing must also be the guarantee of people's freedoms and rights. Let's get to the facts. Senator Giarrusso has made gravely damaging statements of a person's dignity and honor. We are in fact talking, even before a candidate for mayor or a Member of Parliament, about a person who has turned to the judiciary in order to be protected as such and to be able to demonstrate that the facts reported are not true. If they were true, the judiciary would have had the evidence to file and not proceed. The judiciary considered that the complaint was well founded and, therefore, proceeded. Senator Giarrusso tried to use in that process the shield of Article 68 of the Constitution, that shield that the 5 Star Movement has always held as the privilege of the caste. [[Applause from the PD Group]] He repeatedly tried to use that shield, and tried to do so with his memoirs at the Junta. He has never renounced the shield, to which one does not renounce with an Ansa agency, evidently putting in grave embarrassment - yesterday it was read - the 5 Star Movement regarding the absence and an evident contiguity with respect to the other part of the Assembly that he did not address when he accused the parliamentarians of being all collusion and delinquent. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] He addressed this part of the House. Senator Giarrusso, even in his speech today, doesn't seem to have given up on the unmistakableness of his statements, and then you don't do it with an agency. We are here for a repeated request from Senator Giarrusso and argued in a totally false way. Senator Buemi, the shield of the inspection act is not always valid: it is not allowed the parliamentarians to offend anyone and go beyond the limits of the continence and relevance of what they say to a matter relating to the exercise of their function. Even with an inspection act you can harm the dignity and honor of a person, who has the right to defend himself. The Constitutional Court does not say that. He says that, in order to assess whether there is any relevance, there must be at least the act of exercising the function of parliamentarians. In that case, there's no such thing. There was an artificial attempt to cover up a private fact, an extremely damaging accusation of the dignity and honor of a person with an inspection act filed nine months later. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Anna]] That was it. I agree with the statement already made on behalf of the Group by Senator Cucca, and I repeat that we will vote for the soliability of the statements made by Senator Giarrusso, as we voted yesterday for the soliability of the statements made by another colleague in another case. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u30	Senator Ferrara Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u31	Mr President, I believe that what I am going to say can be of help in the development of the conviction of my fellow Members. In premise I note that the request made yesterday by Senator Giarrusso to be present during the discussion that would lead to the vote on his possible insindacability was not also made in Junta. And it seems to me that this is to be noted, because it is to behave, as usual, with double standards. Another burden and another measure we must observe in another field. If we are for the defence of democratic principles and because all of us, on this side and on the other side of the Chamber, know that the right to indefatigability is indispensable, so much so that we vote on it, the fact that interventions are being made in which it is claimed that Senator Giarrusso has reunited you is of little relevance. We are acting in defence of the indisputability, constitutional provisions and, therefore, democratic principles. But, again, two weights and two measures are used because Senator Giarrusso, in Junta, sends, however questionable with respect to the democratic and constitutional principles of insinuability, a request for insinuability, while here he renounces - probably also following a post trigger put on Facebook or in who knows which site - even before there was the meeting, only three hours before. So in Junta we had the overlap of a request and a announcement via web. Then there is another point to make. Mr President, and above all Members of the Council, this issue arises not because a regular criminal, such as one who has helped a camorrist to complain, but because there is a MP from the PD, a Member of the House, and a senator from the Republic who exchanged violent epithets and mutual accusations during an electoral occasion. Now, if we were to bring into court all the accusations that are being exchanged between Members in the Commission and in this House, I believe that they would be, in addition to and even more so than they are, engaged in settling disputes between Members of Parliament. It seems to me itchy that the PD, without being absolutely guaranteed - the secret vote has been noted and is widely detectable by the evaluation systems of this House and is having great echoes in the newspapers and television programs this morning - has double standards when it comes to one of its Members - as happened yesterday for Senator Esposito, following my report, who received 190 votes for the insinacability - and then another of different groups, as he says he wants to behave in the case of Senator Giarrusso. Senator Giarrusso, among other things, is defended by a specific resolution of the Junta, when it is said that, when the offences or the possible alleged offences concern political polemics, especially during the electoral period - as the Junta points out, and of the electoral period we are talking about - you can draw on very marked and colorful tones. I remember we weren't in a square in the Province of Bolzano! We were in the square of a Sicilian Province and that epithet Senator Giarrusso I think could have contempered it in the normal political debate that you have at that latitude. Therefore, in accordance with the principles to which the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate have adhered and with the parliamentary jurisprudence, as I did in the Junta, I will continue to vote for the indisputability of Senator Giarrusso. And I think at this point, given the sensitivity of all the members of this august assembly, that we should proceed by secret vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u32	Mr President, I would just like to make a few points. Senator Giarrusso's irreplaceability was requested pursuant to Article 3 (2) of Law No 140 of 2003. This means that it was the judiciary that proposed the indisputability and Senator Giarrusso did not oppose it, saying that he agreed, with this, being in the electoral campaign and so on. Now, let's clarify the concepts, because one account is what is medialy transmitted and another account is the facts. It is not in the Senator's power to ask for inindacibility or not. The vote of this House is necessary, as is the case with the resignation: a Member of Parliament may be asked to resign, but in fact, if the House does not approve, he cannot resign. Therefore, after we have voted for indistinguishability or mayorship, Senator Giarrusso will not be able to avail himself of immunity. It cannot and therefore what it will be will depend on this House. However, I would like to make two points. In the first Commission there has long been a bill deposited by Senator Molinari and signed by the 5 Star Movement (the so-called Lazzati Act), which proposes to punish the special overseers and those sentenced by Mafia association in order to prevent the institutions from being subject to malavitous infiltrations. I wonder why it has not been requested to schedule it and has not been provided for consistency. Having said that, I also make a joke and ask: but Senator Giarrusso, in the face of a theme so important and so dear to the 5 Star Movement, when he answered giving reason to the judge's indication, did he consult the network and the blog? Have you consulted citizens on what they should or should not have done or acted on their own initiative, since there was a correction by Crimes after that? Therefore, Senator Giarrusso may claim the discourse of inindacability, but he may be subject to expulsion from the 5 Star Movement, coherence for consistency. I therefore urge you to clarify the following: if Senator Giarrusso declares that he does not want to use immunity and we want to agree with the thought of the 5 Star Movement, we must vote today. Otherwise, it is not in his availability. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Battista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u33	Mr President, I would like to make a little thought, referring to the Christian principle of not doing to others what you do not want to do to yourself, and to a similitude. I remember what happened to Quarto, where the mayor was expelled because he had received attention from the judiciary and an adviser, De Robbio, received heavy accusations, and there are photos that portray him along with some members of the director, Luigi Di Maio and Roberto Fico. [[Applause from Senator Pepe.]] I would like to know from Senator Giarrusso what would have happened if some of us in this House - not through agencies or on Facebook - had spoken of a certain contiguity of the Directory with camorristic circles. There was no evidence, yet we could have said so, and we should have rightly answered it in courtrooms. In essence, I want to say that when, within the framework of our parliamentary prerogatives, we make certain statements, then we have to respond to them. What Mr Buemi has said does not agree with me, otherwise we allow the Member to say whatever, and we can say that anyone is linked to mafia or camorristic circles. Now I think it is right that, if there are elements, perhaps the court will take them into account and may agree with Giarrusso himself. But - I repeat - in that case that I mentioned I think I have never heard any Members express themselves in certain ways towards the Directory, because I am convinced that it was not and is not close to camorristic circles. And I remember the same mayor of Quarto said he asked for the expulsion of De Robbio, but the director said no. If we look at these statements, then can we say that the Directory was close to camorristic circles? I don't think so. Therefore, Senator Giarrusso, who - it is true - always uses bright tones (and does so even when sneezed), will answer in court, where he will defend himself with a lawyer who will assist him and will pay the consequences if what he said will not correspond to the truth. That's all. I think, then, that we should vote so that the indisputability of what Senator Giarrusso has said is not affirmed. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, Bignami, Pepe and Orellana]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u34	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u35	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u36	Mr President, given the number of speeches, I think it is right for the rapporteur to make a brief reply first of all to respond to those who - I quote Senator Buemi, because he was the first - have raised the question of giving the indisputability an extended interpretation that goes beyond the stakes set by the Constitutional Court. President Gasparri himself recalled that this is not a new affair. There have been conflicts of attribution and there is a very large jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court in this matter that cannot be overlooked. We know that, from the point of view of the Constitutional Court, the rules, as they are at the present time, allow the use of indisputability only when the statements, the non-moenia statements, are a coherent and punctual amplification of the parliamentary activity carried out within the Community. That's a fact. Therefore, at a time when the rapporteur, whoever he is, has to deal with such a matter, he cannot ignore this framework. I would also add that there would be a space which depends very much on the time when the extra-moenia declaration takes place, i.e. there is the possibility that a Member of Parliament will make an extra-moenia intervention, followed very shortly by a statement in Parliament. In that case, it may well still be invoked for inindacability. The situation we are faced with - as I have already said in the report - is completely different and therefore, dutylessly, anyone who is in the position of rapporteur in cases such as these can only take account of these rules. Then there is another problem, which is what Senator Giarrusso posed. I also believe that the rapporteur should reply. Senator Giarrusso, today, tells us - in a somewhat intimidating way - that he has no intention of escaping the judgment of merit and, in essence, reiterates and amplifies further - this time in Parliament and, therefore, we are faced with a parliamentary activity covered, this yes, by indisputability - the the thesis that has been attributed to him by the plaintiff. Actually in that of Agira exists, that is, a contiguity - as he explained - between a politician and a prejudiced person who has Mafia relatives and who intends to claim these statements of his in court, seat in which he even declares himself convinced that the counterpart will be condemned. Now, it is clear that it is inevitable to ask Senator Giarrusso some very simple questions from the rapporteur's point of view. I am not referring so much to why on 24 May 2015 he claimed that his conduct before the judge was unassailable. So far we have come to understand that this was a political response, in the sense that the indisputability before the judge was excavated because Senator Giarrusso was trying to make the case visible at national level. And, therefore, it was a kind of political fora, a search for attention on the case of Agira pursued through the possibility of coming to Junta and to the House to tell us what he said. And I have nothing to complain about. On the level, however, of the formal correctness and the relations that we must have to the Senate and between us within the Junta, of which Giarrusso is an authoritative member, the basic question is as follows: why on 23 June 2016 and 29 June 2016 was a job imposed on the Junta and myself to verify whether the reasons for the insinacability invoked by Giarrusso were founded or not from the legal and formal point of view? This is an important question, because the use of the Senate of the Republic as a sounding board to highlight the situation of a territory through the instrument of dragging into the Junta of a case that, among other things, dates back to 2015 - so, we add that the plaintiff has been standing still for more than a year - is already at the limits, but it is not up to me to judge it. But if the problem really is what Senator Giarrusso tells us today in this Chamber, I ask why we have been checking for more than a month when and if he had submitted his question and whether or not it was a reason for inconvenience; when and if there was actually a criminal of his rights to express his political views; when and if there was an indeterminate or non-absence of the recipient of his accusations that he has clearly explained to us in this House today that it seems that there is not. This is something I cannot fail to highlight in my reply, because otherwise, Mr President, we all seem crazy. It would seem that I have carried out a report because I have invented, or the House has invented, a request for inconvenience, which has been motivated, albeit - as we have tried to demonstrate in the report - in a way that is not founded from our point of view. It is as if someone today accused the Junta of misreading the intentions that are clear, written and signed. Even with regard to the question, no one said, accusing Mr Giarrusso, that it was a shield to avoid the problem of the complaint. It is Senator Giarrusso who used it as a shield explaining that he had presented it eight months later, otherwise I would never have cited it; I would never have allowed myself and never thought of it. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups and Senator Orellana]] Now, it's not like this isn't allowed. For God's sake, President, everyone can reconsider and there's nothing strange about it. On the other hand, there is no case law from this point of view. There is only the New Testament that forgave St Peter because, three times, he denied Jesus. In short, in this case, there is at least the number three as the limit of the possibility of denying something or rethinking it. The basic problem, however, is that I believe, also because of the quality of the work that we have to do in Junta, that it would be more appropriate for the future than, if it is considered more important to go to trial - and in my opinion rightly, because, despite the tones, it can also convince me the speech of Senator Giarrusso - because it could become a forum for political confrontation, and you are ready to challenge that process, you are sure to get out of it with your own reinforced reasons and with your own political opponent exposed in a feat that tried to hide, well, let's do it. But let us do so, at least on 27 May 2015, and not a year later in this House, without even saying so in Junta, among other things also out of respect for him. I don't think the Senate election committee can know from a press release that a person wants to give up the indisputability on the very day he's discussing it. It is a formal matter, but the form is substance when it comes to a delicate organism such as that which we are called to manage on behalf of the Senate of the Republic. And it is an issue that I inevitably had to highlight in my reply. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups) and Mixed groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u37	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal of the European Parliamentary Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u40	D'ANNA (AL-A). Mr President, my Group will stick to freedom of conscience. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to derogate from the Volterian principle: "I don't agree with what you say, but I would give my life so that you can say it." If this principle applies to all of us, it must also apply to Senator Giarrusso. There's nothing linking my idea to Giarrusso's ideas. I have perhaps been among the few in here, in general sleep, to oppose a work of constant delegitimization of Parliament and of the parliamentarians, to rebel against repeated accusations, to the lies of wanting to paint us as a biecious and heartless caste, living with ease and prebende, while the people are hungry. Giarrusso is the expression of this, it is the sign of the times and, therefore, it acts against others with the subsiego of a moral superiority that finds no response. He acts vulgarly, overwhelmingly, and he must have done this even during that rally. He gives licenses of democracy, of honesty: "honesty, honesty, ta-ra-ta-tà" - we know this little song - but he has the right to do so, because we should fight them here in the Jarrusso, whenever they mystify reality, whenever they rise to depositors of a moral. I remind myself and the bystanders that part that says: We are the virgins with the white mantle. We're broken in the back but healthy in the front. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, we're not at a goliardic graduation party here. [[Applause from Senator Pepe. Comments from the PD Group.]] D'ANNA (AL-A). That's the concept I have of Giarrusso. But I defend here his right to say what he has to say, because my vote against the candorability for Giarrusso is not a courtesy, but the rebuttal of a liberal to a Jacobin make-up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Voltaire's quote was better, of course. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Come here. I'll show you the Jacobin faggot!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u43	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to bring this House back to the subject or to the important issues of the debate. I heard Senator Buemi talking about insults, but we're not talking about insults here. I heard Senator Carraro talk about political struggle, but here no one talks about political struggle when you support certain things. I have heard - and I have found them hallucinating - the paradoxical motives put forward by Senator Scalia. We could, out of absurdity, argue whether that balcony was abusive or not. Are we going to say that Palermo's problem is traffic, as someone said? Senator Augello wonders that we have wasted time, wondering what we have been doing in Junta. I'll explain. Who of you knew, before these hours, who were such Giannitto and Scaminaci? No one knew, probably because you are not properly informed, because you are not in those places fighting as Senator Giarrusso does. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All this served, Senator Augello, to come to the Junta and then to the Assembly, to talk about such issues, to be able to tell the citizens that they are watching us at this moment what happens during the electoral campaigns in Italy. I would simply like to read, since it has not been formulated in this House, the head of charge addressed to our colleague Mario Giarrusso and I would like to spell out the words calmly. Our colleague has been accused by your deputy and candidate mayor of the Democratic Party, Greco Maria Gaetana, for saying: It is unacceptable, it is intolerable that in 2015 it is still possible to exhibit in such a dramatic way behaviors and subjects denoting contiguity with the mafia environments, moreover in the electoral campaign. Your candidate mayor in the Democratic Party as well as congresswoman admits the presence on that balcony of this Giannitto, who, as we have said, has a fairly important criminal record. What you should say and what we are asking for is simply a very important fact. The problem - and this also justifies the presence of the 5 Star Movement in this House - is the existence of major and secondary elements; the problem is that what is most important to you is an absolutely secondary element for us: we are not interested in your arguments. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Instead, what is the main thing for us, not only for you is not secondary, but you do not even consider it, and that is why you are going more and more rapidly towards your defeat. I say this because we are in these classrooms because we believe in what literature considers a political sillogism, to which we are in favour. Political syllogism is what allows me to say that if I go to dinner with well-known representatives of the capital mafia such as Buzzi and Carminati [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And if tomorrow night a politician goes to dinner with what he went to dinner with Buzzi and Carminati, my morale allows me to say, in quotes, that I also went to dinner with Buzzi and Carminati. Political syllogism allows me to say that if there is a minister who makes amendments for his comrade and that minister belongs to my party, then I too have allowed that amendment to be adopted. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is political syllogism. We all know that that Giannitto guy, who was on the same balcony with a candidate mayor of the PD, was probably also supposed to be on that balcony, being a PD member; probably there were no profiles of illegality, but that's the point, because it's not important what's legal. We are not obliged to cling to what is legal, we have been elected to go further; we must be guarantors of a morality [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , we must have our own ethics that go beyond legality and that is always true. What you should have done is simply call the candidate mayor and ask if Giannitto was on that balcony or not. Is it true or not? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Forget the lawsuit. I simply say this for one reason: it is true that in Italy - as in all the world - there are behaviors that fall under the law, but our morality requires us to go beyond what is legal and to set an example first. That's what I'm telling you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You think that the 15,000 euros you receive each month from the State put you on a different level from the other citizens; you think that the fact that you are endowed with parliamentary immunity and insindicability places you on a pedestal of difference compared to other citizens; we simply say... [[Senator Sonego's comments. Applause.]] LUCIDES (M5S). Giarrusso is the same as other citizens; you think you are not the same as other citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish your speech, Senator Lucidi. Talk to the Presidency. LUCIDES (M5S). I conclude my brief explanation of vote by declaring that the 5 Star Movement is here, in this House, because you are a caste. [[Comments from the PD Group]] You think you're an elite in this country and instead you're just an outskirts of this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Manconi's comments.]] That is why I declare the clear vote of the 5 Star Movement in favour of the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. Ironic applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u46	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are talking, according to the agenda... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u47	Colleagues, let the other colleague speak, as you have spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u48	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). We are about to decide on a question of mayorship or insinability regarding Senator Giarrusso. We are not acting in favour of or against Senator Giarrusso, nor his sympathy, nor his political position, but we are about to decide on the unionability or indisputability of his statements, the words he made during a meeting. Once the Senate is invested in this task, that is what it has to decide. It could have happened that we were invested in this task so that the judge, directly, on his own initiative, without anyone asking for it, asked the Senate to know whether the Senate believed that those words and statements were part of the parliamentary task, were therefore inherent in the activity of parliamentary or not. We arrived, instead, because there was a specific request from Senator Giarrusso and his lawyers in court and, for completeness of information, it must be remembered that Senator Giarrusso's request was to dismiss, evidently considering that his statements were not offensive and did not constitute in any case criminal; in the alternative, he asked to avail himself of Article 68 of the Constitution, therefore considering his words as indispensable as part of his parliamentary activity. A similar request was made in the written memoirs that Senator Giarrusso presented to the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Now, he has asked us in this House to take a different decision. It is a legitimate request, it does not pose the problem that this is contrary to what you said earlier, because it is very free to change its orientation and its feeling of respect for this judicial affair; it could change its mind even tomorrow, after this House has expressed itself. But we are not judging on the will of Senator Giarrusso to go to court to defend himself and to act in that case; we are judging whether those statements are part of a political activity or not. Senator Lucidi's intervention has clearly shown that it is a political struggle, he said as clearly as possible. It is, as Senator Carraro said, a political struggle, made in a certain way; the political struggle that Senator Lucidi continued in this intervention in the Assembly, attacking all opponents and ascribed to his party the sums civic virtues. It is a political intervention, as a politician was the intervention of Senator Giarrusso. It doesn't matter that they now say 'nounce', 'voted' or 'voted' in this other way. Today we decide to vote in a certain way and tomorrow Senator Giarrusso could change his mind again (he would be free to do so); but then what do we do? Let us return to our decisions because Senator Giarrusso said that he now wants to use Article 68? We must and we can respect the sentiment and will of each one, but here we must judge on a person who pronounces the sentences that Senator Lucidi reread earlier. And I repeat, precisely because they were repeated earlier, that they are sentences in which no name is made, but where in fact a heavy controversy is made, which I personally do not share in the ways. In my opinion, politics should be conducted with regard to what is being done, to ideals, to concrete actions, rather than to such accusations. However, each is free to use his own arguments. Senator Giarrusso used arguments and others will use other arguments. In her speech, however, no one was mentioned, let alone the Member who sued him. We must therefore, by never judging on these matters according to political affiliation, ask ourselves whether, in general, there is a right on the part of those who are affected, in his view, to reiterate their reasons. At the time when the Senate is involved in this matter, it must judge whether it is permissible to make politics in this way, without naming names, accusing the counterpart of certain neighborhoods, embarrassing or shameful (of course, considered such). Article 68 of the Constitution, in its part concerning indisputability, states that it serves to ensure that a Member of Parliament can carry out a political struggle without fearing from the contrary of extremely burdensome judicial proceedings. And maybe for the adverse part these onerous actions are not, because the adverse part is very powerful. I am not referring, of course, to this case, but we must refer to the general cases. As far as we are concerned, we shall vote against the resolution of the Council, considering that today, as on all other occasions (and we must not go so far back in time), when a Member of Parliament conducts a political struggle and makes statements, even of heavy political attack, he has the right to do so without fearing unfair consequences for his political action. If he did so as a private citizen, of course the issue would be different. If it were to lead a battle of denigration against one person, even as a politician, this would be another issue. But in this case he acts in a political context. Why did Senator Giarrusso say those sentences? Because he was holding a political rally. He didn't have a political role, he wouldn't even be called on that stage. In this way we do not protect Senator Giarrusso, but the right of citizens to be represented by people who are free to engage in political activity, also making serious accusations, provided that they remain limited to the political aspect. In this case, I invite everyone to reread these sentences on the second page of the report. If we were to think of acting against all those who make statements against political opponents from this level (which is almost prudent and astonishing, given Senator Giarrusso's well-known impreciseness) the courts would not be as slow as they are today, but they would just be blocked, being unable to take care of anything else. Therefore, understanding also the reasons of the plaintiff, because it has felt evidently touched, but aware that a Member of Parliament must be able to carry out his political activity without his political accusations being liable to damage his heritage, his good repute and his criminal record, we will vote for the indisputability and, therefore, we will vote against what the Junta has decided. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u51	Mr Warra (PD). Mr President, this House has, unfortunately, accustomed us to vulgar, violent, offensive interventions, but I would not feel comfortable with myself, as a woman and as a Member of Parliament, if I did not detect the masculinism and sexism of Senator D'Anna's intervention. I want to say publicly that it causes me nausea and bewilderment. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u54	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, Senator Mario Giarrusso retreated his position within a few hours. I have been in this Group and I have seen and know what is the coercion of a Group which decides not for the majority (which would be more than democratic), but according to the will of one or two. I know - I have experience of this - what they are capable of and the communication of this Group, of what its power is and not of what its duty is. Mario, I know you personally and I'm sorry, but the doubt that you didn't make this decision freely has absolute priority and forces me to no. I would vote yes if I were convinced that you made this choice freely, but I'm sure you didn't. For this reason, I declare my vote against. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u57	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Mr President, I would just like to say that I am not going to take part in the vote. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] As President of the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, I do not participate in the vote either in the Junta or in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u60	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, it has been two days since the members of the Assembly of Parliament's elections and immunities were decommissioned from voting. We keep hearing that they don't vote. Since the Junta is the body that gives us information on which we must decide and since it approves resolutions that we then have to assess, it is appropriate that its members vote like all other Members. Whether they take responsibility or resign from the Junta! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u61	Senator Volpi, it is not for the Presidency to defend the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunities, but I recall that the rapporteur, Senator Augello, spoke and explained the positions and assessments. President Stefano, if I may say so, has confirmed the direction and attitude he holds both in the Junta and in this House by virtue of his position as President and, at times, also as rapporteur. So frankly, it seems to me that the Junta has done its job. [[Senator D'Anna points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator D'Anna, we have to vote now. At the end of the sitting, you will be able to speak on the details you think you should make. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u64	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, since I believe that all Members should be given the same treatment, I would ask that the vote be taken by secret ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u65	Senator Buemi, voting by secret ballot is only allowed in some cases, such as, for example, in the matter of wiretapping. In this case, the Rules of Procedure of the Senate do not allow the use of secret voting. A similar request had already been made by other Members, but - I repeat - the Rules of Procedure do not allow it. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to decide that the statements made by Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso do not constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore do not fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. Therefore, those who vote in favour acknowledge the validity of the proposal for non-compliance with the requirements, while those who vote against consider that the requirements are there. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Senator D'Anna, I see you're once again complaining that you want to intervene. I repeat that you will be able to speak at the end of the sitting. I guess it's a replica... [[Senator D'Anna's comments.]] What do you want to intervene on? D'ANNA (AL-A). I mentioned the Iphigonia. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I thought I had solved the issue by appreciating more Voltaire, which was also a censor to an inappropriate quote. I repeat, you keep quoting Cross and Voltaire and not other texts. D'ANNA (AL-A). You're an ass, study! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, I'll call you back to order and stay in your place. Mr Fornaro (PD). You have to learn to be in Parliament. You can't insult a colleague, all right? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That goes for you, too. I have already censored certain quotations which I do not agree with this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u66	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2345, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Romano, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. [[Brusio.]] I would like to ask the senators to calm down, as this issue is also causing censorship within the Group, as you can see. It seems to me that the Presidency has already blamed certain quotations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u67	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, Senators and Senators. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u68	Let Senator Romano speak. I have already censored inappropriate behavior and statements. This is a task for the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u69	ROMANO, rapporteur. Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, Senators and fellow Senators, before explaining the report on the delegation to the Government for the transposition of European directives and the implementation of other acts of the European Union, also defined and called the 2015 European delegation law, I think it is appropriate to make some preliminary reflections which I am going to take into account in the debate which will shortly mark the discussion of the draft law. It is a framework of current affairs, which sees the law of European delegation in a European context characterized by moments of great dynamism and criticality. I would like to mention, for example, the issues of Brexit, terrorism and banks, which are at the attention of the Senate in the various relevant Commissions. I also think it is appropriate to point out that the issue of Brexit has been entrusted to the European Union's political Commission, in conjunction with the Commission for Foreign Affairs. This means that the report is not merely a list, but a description of all the various aspects of this law of European delegation which require further attention and sensitivity, as has been noted, perceived and debated in the 14th Commission. Here, however relevant the European delegation law, the issues have expanded to include the entire European debate, which is the Commission's own debate. Mr President, I must stress to the attention of my fellow senators who are not members of the 14th Commission that the debate took place in terms of great calmness and in-depth discussion from the point of view of content [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u70	Colleagues, allow the rapporteur to carry out his report. The Presidency has already made its assessment of what has happened. Have Senator Romano carry out the report, which I ask you to continue with the patience and competence that characterizes him.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u71	As I said earlier, I address the senators who are not members of the 14th The Commission's discussion of the European delegation law in the Commission was characterized not only by deepening, but by a dialectic and dialectic calmness which meant that the Commission itself assumed great responsibility, wisely presided over by Senator Chiti. What do I mean by that? It is clear that a law of European delegation to a superficial analysis can be interpreted in a rather reductive way, as a list of directives to be transposed and delegated by the Government itself. But there is one more value, there is one more meaning, I would say that there is one more meaning: to address these issues not as something imposed from above, but as something shared at the level of the various Commissions (in this case our 14th Commission), as a further moment of building that European unity and sharing of values of which, Mr President and my fellow Senators, today there is absolute necessity. Our action, also in this area, must not be a so-called centrifugal action, which characterizes the debate at European level, but must be a centripetal debate, that is to say, putting the focus not only on the debate, but also on reflection, the indissolubility of a European Union of which not only we cannot do without, but of which we are obviously founders and conscious actors, we do not appear. I believe that this is a qualifying aspect of the work done in the 14th Commission. I would like to put a further thought to your attention, as a preliminary point, because it also means the ways in which the work of the next hours and days on the law of a European delegation will characterize the work of the next few hours and days. We know that the annual bill of European delegation was presented by the Government to the Chamber of Deputies on 18 January 2016. A subsequent bill of European delegation will then be presented for the year 2016 and the Government, during the exam in 14a The Commission has undertaken to present it quickly, starting with the Senate itself in its legislative process. It is a fairly full-bodied bill, the one under consideration, as amended and approved by the Chamber of Deputies; it consists of twenty-one articles and two annexes. Overall, the measure delegates the Government to the implementation of thirteen directives, a framework decision, a recommendation of the European Systemic Risk Board and two directives to be implemented in a regulatory way, and delegates the Government to adapt national legislation to twelve regulations. It must be pointed out - and I believe that this not only takes shape with the report, but is substantial and not formal for the work that will characterize the Assembly - that during the examination in the Commission no amendments have been made to the text of the bill. This has found a cordial agreement on the part of all the members, in order to speed up the approval times in the Commission and, subsequently, at the level of the House. This in accordance with specific agreements with the homologation of the Commission of the Chamber of Deputies and with the Government, according to which the bill of European delegation 2015, already approved by the Chamber, should have been approved by the Senate without modifications, while, mutually, the draft of European law 2015-2016, approved by the Senate, should not have been modified by the Chamber, as then in fact happened, with the definitive approval taken on 30 June of the current year. In the course of the Commission's examination, it was also agreed that any problematic issues could be dealt with by proposing specific agendas, which I will take into account in the follow-up to the report. It should be stressed, however, that, since the beginning of the parliamentary term, there has been an important work done by Parliament and the Government in transposing European directives and in the sanatorium of infringements. This work has undoubtedly been supported by Law No 234 of 2012, which has enabled it to have at its disposal not only the only annual instrument of Community law, but the two instruments of the European delegation law and European law, which could be adopted again during the reference year, for a potential of as many as four system laws per year to transpose European Union law. Moreover, having shared the examination of the bill of European delegation and the draft European law between the European Committees of Senate and Chamber, which therefore work simultaneously and without time of suspension, with the political constraint that the Chamber that examines for second does not make changes to the text approved by the Chamber that examines for first, has made the legislative process extremely fast. It is clear that the speed of the legislative process has been confirmed and also based on the agreement and consensus of all the members of the various groups within the 14th Commission. Let me turn to the illustration of the articles. There are as many as 21 full-bodied articles. I therefore believe that I interpret the Assembly's thinking by going as a summary on those articles which have not been modified to the House or given rise to the presentation and approval of agendas in the 14th Senate Commission. Therefore, on the abbreviation of what I mentioned a moment ago about the way in which I was exhibiting this report, on Article 1, I quickly go to call on the government to give effect to the directives contained in Annexes A and B. Article 2 delegates legislation on criminal or administrative penalties for infringements of European rules other than directives implemented in the legislative process. A particular in-depth study deserves Article 3, which delegates the Government to adapt the national legislation on the prevention, management, introduction and spread of so-called invasive alien species, within which, during the examination in the Commission, an agenda was approved, as I anticipated, in particular the agenda of the G3.100, with which the Government undertakes to provide for a special plan of action against the spread in marine waters of alien animal and plant species, coming from the extra-Mediterranean naval traffic and from the ballast waters of ships, for the protection of habitats, autochthonous species and the safeguarding of the balance of the marine ecosystem. Article 4 was introduced by the Chamber during the examination of the bill and leads to the reduction of the use of lightweight plastic bags. The European Commission closed the 2011/4030 infringement procedure on 28 April 2016. Article 5 has not only been carefully evaluated, like the other articles by the Commission, but has also been the subject of approved agendas and which commit the Government. In particular, Article 5 deals with labelling and information on food to consumers: a subject which we can call sensitive, on which much has been debated in the Commission, but also in the House, in the light of other draft laws; an issue which Italy is particularly interested and involved for obvious reasons. Two agendas were adopted in the course of the Commission's examination. The first commits the Government to assess, in compliance with European legislation, the mandatory labelling of the origin of the primary ingredient, following the results of the public consultation and pursuant to Article 39 of the Regulation of 2011 of the European Union, in order to ensure the correct - this is the particularly significant and important aspect - and complete information, the health of consumers and the protection of operators in the food chain as important to give maximum transparency. And I believe that this also meets the criteria of social ethics. With the second agenda, G5.101, commits the Government to guarantee throughout the national territory, compatible with public finance balances, special surveys for the identification of the presence and its metabolism, aminomethylphosphonic acid, and to intensify controls on food products in order to protect the consumer and his health. This means, therefore, that obviously the attention is very precise and that the aim, precisely, is to protect the health of the consumer in relation to the use of products on which the debate of recent weeks, not only at the level of the international scientific community but also at the political level, has been particularly lively and has seen positions at times quite opposed. Article 6 aims to provide for coordination to facilitate the consular protection of Union citizens not represented in third countries. I shall continue quickly in my report on the articles which have not been amended to the House, which have not been introduced by the House, nor have they been the subject of draft agendas within our Commission. Article 7 deals with exports of dual-use products and technologies. Article 8 refers to an information procedure in the field of technical regulations and rules relating to information society services. In the course of the examination in the Commission was approved the agenda G8.100 with which the Government is committed to valorizing the contribution that technical standardization provides to the growth of the Italian economy as a tool of leverage of the competitiveness of the enterprises, allowing on the one hand greater involvement of the enterprises themselves in the process of defining the standardization and on the other that the normative activity is inspired to criteria of clarity and transparency in order to favor a wider diffusion to the public. Article 9 refers to the conditions to be harmonised for the marketing of construction products. Article 10 relates to the macro-prudential mandate of national authorities and in particular provides for the establishment of a national macro-financial policy committee to be set up by the banking and financial sector authorities. The Committee, chaired by the Bank of Italy, will have specific functions of direction and recommendations as well as powers to request information from public bodies and private bodies. Here too, in the course of the Commission's examination, some agendas have been approved, which I shall shortly submit to the Assembly: the first is the commitment of the Government to consider whether the macro-economic policy committee should be given the power to promote more extensive ways of informing consumers. The second commits the Government to assess whether it is appropriate to provide for gradual and proportionate measures related to the implementation of Directive 59 of 2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014. The third and final agenda commits the Government to provide that the Committee for macro-prudential policies compiles annually information showing the soundness of all banking and financial institutions operating on national territory according to certain principles and guiding criteria indicated on time. Article 11 refers to interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. Article 12 was introduced during the examination of the bill in the Chamber and refers to payment services in the internal market. In this case, too, the 14th The Commission has taken action on a number of agendas and during this examination it has been approved in particular by one with which the Government undertakes to assess the desirability of implementing as soon as possible an incentive programme for the dissemination of electronic payments and the digital currency providing, in particular, this is a fact that I would particularly like to emphasise, a tax deduction for final consumers using payment cards for the purchase of goods or services. It is intuitive what benefits can be drawn from it, not only with regard to the purely banking and financial aspect, but also with regard to all the issues that are easily imaginable related to them. Article 13 refers to the adaptation of the single text of the provisions on financial intermediation (TUF). Article 14 refers to expenditure relating to the payment account, the transfer of the payment account and access to the payment account with basic features. Here too, two agendas have been presented: the first (G14,100) commits the Government to take appropriate steps to ensure that, in the context of the implementation of Directive 2014/92 of the European Union, a system of greater protection of non-professional investors savers is provided, establishing that each internet site of comparison is informed of the principles of greater transparency and comprehensibility, so that users can know and compare, as easily as possible, the banking products offered, their purposes and any kind of cost related to the product. We could briefly say that this agenda is based on a criterion of transparency of information. With the second agenda (G14.101), the Government undertakes to assess the appropriateness of taking appropriate steps to ensure that, always within the framework of this Directive, the obligation of free of charge is provided for payment service providers, for each type of information service provided for in Article 14 of this draft law. Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 have in no way been amended by the House, nor have they been the subject of attention from the point of view of the presentation of agendas. Article 15 deals with the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing, which is therefore of particular importance, which in some way draws - I am opening and closing this parenthesis - the introductory aspect that I put to the attention of my colleagues. Article 16 refers to the quality of petrol and diesel and to the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, an ecological issue of great importance and importance for all the repercussions that have, not only in terms of production and energy, but even more in terms of public health. Article 17 refers to the limitation of emissions into the atmosphere of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants. I believe that these are very important and important issues at European level that lead us to share them and to feel - we can say it in quotes - allies in a common sense. Article 18 refers to marine equipment, which I shall not dwell on. With regard to Article 19, which was introduced during the examination in the House, it talks about the fight against corruption in the private sector. A special attention, as the Commission has put it, deserves from all of us Article 20, which was introduced during the examination in the House and which refers to the collective management of copyright. This is a debate that has occupied the media a great deal over the past few weeks, very much felt in the European community but which also clearly characterizes the debate of the national community. In particular, the debate on this subject has been very significant and we have accepted agendas which we can call bipartisan and cross-cutting which also mean the way in which we worked in the Commission. In fact, a first agenda commits the Government to consider gradually promoting the autonomous management of copyrights, primarily through information programmes on creative commons licences. With a second agenda - and here the articulation is even more specific and precise - the Government is committed: to provide, in the drafting of the implementing decree, for mechanisms and procedures that allow rightholders and users to notify the Competition Authority and the market comments and proposals aimed at the better implementation of the principles established by the Directive; to carry out, in the spirit of Directive 2014/26/EU, which provides for the establishment of appropriate procedures to monitor its compliance, an in-depth analysis of the results obtained in terms of transparency and efficiency of the activity now carried out by SIAE alone, with a view to intervening subsequently, also in the direction of opening up the brokerage activity - particularly significant passage - to other collective management bodies; to identify the best solutions for ensuring the free market of copyright protection services, their efficiency and greater solvency of the agencies carrying out them, in the light of the opinion of the Competition and Market Guarantor Authority of 1 June 2016, as well as on the basis of the observation of the results achieved by the best practices of the other Member States of the European Union and of the evidence offered by the national authorities, including of impact, which will be established by the Commission's group of experts and representatives, which will be set up by the experts. Article 21 - I shall begin with the conclusion of my speech - refers to the issue of casein and chicory intended for human consumption, by providing for the transposition of Directive 2015/2203/EU. (Applause from the right) Then there are the two Annexes A and B; if the President agrees, I would ask for permission to attach the remaining part of my report, which is precisely a description of the issues dealt with in Annexes A and B. PRESIDENT. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. ROMANO, rapporteur. I am going to finalise this report of mine, stressing, as I recalled in the beginning of the report, that we are living in a moment of particular delicacy, where the debate at European level is extremely complex, I would say even more conflictual and greatly critical, where the foundations of the common feeling of the European Union have been and are being called into question in various respects, of this, which is not only a political community, but a community of peoples, which can also be a highly aware community of cultures, with roots that come to share the stories of the nations that are part of it. Well, even today, the subject of this bill of European delegation can be an instrument, large or small, of large or small content, which, however, represents a part of a broader framework, within a perimeter that must characterize not only our feeling of part of Europe but of sharing its responsibilities and principles. Perhaps the transposition of a directive can also be a piece, a method, an opportunity to share a common sense of the European community. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u74	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I asked to speak in the near future of the previous vote, but this was not allowed in the stages of the vote. I would like to point out that, at the time of the vote, the mechanism was not in contact, so I did not vote in favour of the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity, which we voted on just now.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u75	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u76	Madam President, the annual bill of European delegation, as provided for in Law No 234 of 2012, has the main task of reducing or eliminating cases of regulatory conflict between our legal system and the European one; this action, which takes place through a path, of which the bill constitutes the final and formal passage. This path goes through stages of negotiation managed by the Government, in which the main concern of those who have to deal with it should be to take into account the national interest of our companies, our citizens and our social and economic fabric. European decisions, in fact, in all their questionable forms, affect the political, social and economic life of our country, not to mention their ability to affect health and nutrition. The rapporteur correctly said that the text consists of 21 articles and that there has been a very lively debate in the Commission, but most of our amendments were and are of common sense, as has already happened to the House, and certainly improvements to the text. Therefore, if this Government really cared about the fate of our citizens and our businesses, I wonder why there have not been really serious discussions in the Committees on the merits and the purpose of these amendments has not been thoroughly analysed. The arguments contained in the measure are clearly heterogeneous, both by subject matter and by competence. We are talking about labelling olive oils, honey, increasing VAT on risotto preparations to cover a different tax on gambling; we are talking about European student vehicles in Italy, VAT rates, basil, rosemary and fresh sage, truffles and compensation for victims of violent international crimes, provisions on the nature of wildlife; moreover, the measure contains recommendations from the National Railway Safety Agency and much more. These are certainly heterogeneous issues, Madam President, of which we recall Articles 1, 2, 21, 22 and 23, which do not remedy sanctions but intervene on EU Pilot cases which limit the values of transparency and correctness of information. These articles denote the renunciation that this Government continues to hold precisely in the agro-food sector, which should instead constitute the international pride of our made in Italy. Madam President, if we want to get into this matter, I must say that I am well aware of Mr Gozi, because we have spent an entire parliamentary term in the 14th Chamber Commission; we were both Presidents: I in the ascending phase and he in the descending phase of the formation of European standards. In those clothes many times we have faced each other and sometimes even in a piccato way, but always in the correctness of those who try to bring good to their country. However, it must be said that Europe as we understand it is not exactly that. We want a Europe that is attentive to the citizens, to the specificities of its territories, to the ability of every nation to enable citizens to make the best of their productive and entrepreneurial capacities. One of the most bald regulations we have considered in this period is the Bolkestein directive, which not many days ago has caused problems related to those who are managing our coasts. I would also like to address the President-in-Office of the Council who was talking about improvements here and there: perhaps we should have more strength and attention when we are invited to three at a very important table such as the one following Brexit and the British vote: perhaps we should understand that this invitation is only due to the fact that probably, if a referendum of that kind had been held in this country, the same result would have been achieved. The problem in this country is very simple: we have neither an industrial plan nor an energy plan. We didn't even have a strategy for tourism... president. Please conclude. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). ...a little or nothing on the issue of banks, but let us rest assured that this Europe is helping us and I, Madam President, never as much as I need it today. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u77	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u78	(IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the draft law which is binding on the Government for the transposition of European directives and the implementation of other acts of the European Union - European delegation law 2015 We all know that the bill of European delegation is made up of legislative delegations which Parliament gives to the Government in order to amend internal legislation in accordance with European acts. Nobody doubts the importance of this bill, which will implement numerous provisions of the European Union on national territory and which will have the task of regulating different areas of the economic and social spheres. This time too, however, as is all too often the case, we find ourselves transposing European Union rules in a compulsive and automated way, without having the slightest care to deepen the issues within them and evaluate the effects they will have on our legislation in the first place and, consequently, on the everyday lives of Italian citizens. Membership of the European Union is not in question, nobody wants to put our obligations on the ground because of our accession; what we want is the possibility of agreeing on these obligations. We call for the possibility of drawing up and negotiating, with the social partners and the professional groups involved, those European standards which will have an influence on the intangible and constitutional rights guaranteed. In this regard, I feel like expressing my fears and my perplexity about what I believe to be the path taken by this Europe; a future in which the traditions and roots of every single people that compose it fade slowly, to the point of mixing themselves into a sort of earthly and mortal god, to quote the "Leviathan" of Hobbes, to which we give all our natural right to guarantee, through his sword, protection from a not well-defined enemy. But unlike the society hypothesized by Hobbes, our cultures, starting from the Italian one, are anything but composed of solitary, poor, dangerous, brutal men and short life, and this precisely thanks to the precious gift of the soul and consciousness, by the heavenly and immortal God, to whom the Leviathan himself must submit. And are we so sure that this Leviathan warrior is actually able to protect us? If we do not have reference values, and specifically the most important and undeniable values, which are precisely our Christian roots and brotherhood in Christ, what instructions can we give him to make him discern good from evil? None. Because the concept, simplified, of good and evil, will be parametric on something abstract, if not abstruse, that has nothing to do with values. A small chapel on the Appia Antica street reminds us of our destiny. It was here that, according to legend, St. Peter, while trying to escape persecution by the Roman authorities, was stopped in his race by the figure of Jesus, who suddenly appeared to him as coming out of nowhere. Domine, quo vadis? - asked Peter. But Jesus answered him by asking him the same question, and Peter understood what he had to do: he returned to Rome and completed his mission. This wrote, the beauty of ten years ago, Sir Roger Scruton, an academic and British philosopher, in an article entitled "Quo vadis," Europe? Quo vadis, Italy? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, He questioned the fact that, in his opinion, Europe was experiencing a tragic rejection of itself, adding that: Europe seems to be fleeing from its past, from its heritage, from its Christian mission. But he escapes without having a goal to go to. The great European project, which should justify all the social, legal and political changes that are imposed on us, has suddenly lost its mask and revealed all its nullity. Politicians have put this project on our head with tricks and deception. The nation states of Europe, as they have told us, will remain free and democratic: we just want to create a meeting of friends, facilitate trade and promote common interests. But little by little, bureaucracy has grown, our legislative powers have been taken from us and the idea of national loyalty has been rejected and trampled on. But for what purpose? Read the proposal for a European Constitution and you will understand that. At no point does he speak of the religion of Europe, of the glories and enterprises of the European past or of the great culture that our Continent has been able to produce. Pages and pages of empty words, which reveal a veiled hostility towards the nation state; a essentially socialist political agenda, and a systematic confiscation of the legislative powers of the nations. There is nothing clear in this document, except what is denied and rejected. This document is nothing more than a systematic denial of the European past. The French and Dutch voted against this proposal for a Constitution (and, I add, back in 2005). But that doesn't mean it's gonna be abandoned. The European project is the same as the Bolshevik project of 1917: there is no plan B. The machine was set in motion; and when it was derailed, the engineers simply put it back on the tracks. Sometimes politicians talk about a "slow path" and a "fast path' for the future; but they both lead in the same direction: that is, nowhere. At the present time, in order to understand how much these speculations have taken place, the United Kingdom has come out of the European Union, following the mood of so many other countries, evidently forced without too much conviction to embrace this project. Returning to examine the measure in question, it was approved in the Chamber of Deputies at first reading by 314 votes to 80 and was presented by the Government on 18 January 2016. Many amendments and additions were made during the parliamentary examination to the initial text of the draft law of the European delegation 2015. The novelties focus on the introduction of specific delegation principles and criteria for the transposition of different acts of the European Union and the introduction of further EU directives and acts to be made operational in national law. The measure approved in the Chamber consists of 21 articles and contains delegation provisions covering 12 European directives, a recommendation ESRB (European Systemic Risk Committee), a framework decision, and finally the adaptation of national regulations to 13 European regulations. The Government has been authorised to transpose the Directives on marine equipment and the Directive on the approximation of laws relating to casein and chicory intended for human consumption in a regulatory manner. Significant additions have been made to the content of the original government bill, using principles and criteria of delegation and the inclusion of further EU directives and acts for transposition into national law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, I invite you to conclude. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I shall certainly finish my speech, but since I will not be able to read the full text of my speech, I would ask for permission to attach the remaining part to the shorthand report of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are examining the draft law of the European delegation 2015. We should talk more specifically about the content and substance of the measure, as the rapporteur has done correctly, but I believe that we cannot fail to make a political assessment of what the European Union is today and what has become this ritual of changing our way of life and our legislation according to the European directives. Indeed, for too long we have been getting used to transposing everything from the European Union in resigned terms and even with a fatalist position, almost always asking for it by the European Union and therefore it must be done, starting from the assumption that what comes from Brussels is necessarily good and fair and, therefore, to be implemented by changing our customs. Mr President, I would like to include in the current general debate a reflection on the significance of membership of the European Union. In fact, if a meaning is needed or can be found, I believe that this cannot be in the mere transposition of directives or regulations concerning the reduction of the use of plastic bags or light material, rather than coordination measures for the consular protection of the citizens of the European Union or, again, other measures contained in the draft law under consideration, such as the definition of the terms for the marketing of construction products. If there is a reason and there is a reason for Italy's participation in the European Union, it should be based on very broad and strong ideals, on social growth and on civil progress which must clearly inspire the citizens first and, secondly, on those who sit in this House as elected by them. All of this, on the other hand, is totally unrelated to the debate. Why? Certainly Italy has for far too long had a position of liability vis-à-vis the European Union, which leads to giving up the defence of the interests of our citizens and of production activities. Mr President, I have taken the trouble to do a job that, perhaps, sometimes is useful, because we get used to superimposing paper and forgetting what has been written or done. I took the trouble to examine the dossier on the European Commission's replies to the instruments of guidance on which the 14th Permanent Commission was expressed on 21 November 2014. The document contains all the Commission's policy guidelines and responses from Brussels. Mr President, reading the dossier basically results in everything that we send to Brussels being taken and archived, of course thanking the President of the Senate for reporting on it. I'll give you some examples. We could go and see the resolution of the Labour Commission, Social Security, on the European Network of Public Employment Services. What is said by Commission Vice-President Maroš Šefčovič? Reading of the final part of its communication: "Confident that these clarifications can respond to the comments made in the opinion, the Commission hopes to continue a dialogue in the future (...)" (in the initial part nothing has been said). The same is true of other acts of direction, such as those relating to agricultural activities or - even - foreign policy activities. Then I came to an act of address that even has a mockery. Mr President, it is a mockery to read that on 28 November 2013 the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Emigration of the Senate sent a resolution to the European Commission that ended with the hope of the centrality of the accession negotiations with Turkey, to which Italy is strongly in favour: To ensure that the enlargement process of the European Union is accompanied by a wide and in-depth public debate to inform Italian citizens of the opportunities, benefits and costs of the possible accession of new Member States. The definition - I say it to the extensor of this resolution - deserved more attention because today it is mockery and, above all, to be read backwards. Indeed, in the opinion of the 14th The Commission wrote on this resolution: Finally, the 14th Commission reaffirms Turkey's economic and strategic importance, especially in its role as an element of stability and for the geopolitical balance of the Mediterranean and Middle East countries. What a long vision! It was also said: However, he stressed the impact of the May and June 2013 events in Istanbul on the process of strengthening democratic institutions and opening up to civil society bodies, and hoped that the Turkish Government would strongly stigmatize the use of violence against any demonstration of peaceful protest. We have written these words; I stress that we have written: "that the Turkish Government strongly stigmatizes the use of violence against any protest demonstration" and we have even added the word "peaceful" to it. We are falling into ridicule, because we are talking about European Union measures and we are totally ignoring the scenario in which the European Union is dissolving at the moment. Today we are called upon by the rapporteur to assess and approve the transposition of European legislation, which, as I said before, deals with issues ranging from plastic bags to the marketing of construction products, neglecting the debate that the United Kingdom left the European Union a few weeks ago and that our country expressed itself with applause and broad support for Turkey's entry into Europe. We are talking about Turkey itself which, in these days and hours, is filling up not the jails, but the concentration camps of citizens who are guilty of having a political position of dissent against the dictator Erdogan, to whom the European Union itself has just given EUR 3 billion to make him manage the borders of Europe. It is not necessary to have great imagination to remember that the great moment of decadence of the Roman Empire occurred at the time when the Romans paid the troops to keep peace at the borders. This is what is happening today. The European Union, on the one hand, is lived as a transposition of legislation on shopping bags and, on the other hand, pays mercenaries at the border and closes its eyes to governments, such as the Turkish government, which take the first opportunity - history will tell us what was behind this failed coup - to do repression against democracy in the country. In silence and connivance, the European Union sends out a few dispatches and small complaints, but we are very careful not to take a clear stand against this situation. This would give meaning to our participation in the European Union and not to the transposition of legislation concerning envelopes to go shopping at the supermarket. If we are to talk about serious matters today, we must remember that our participation in the European Union has led to bail in and it means that we have broken tens of thousands of families for having transposed legislation uncritically by part of the majority. We, when it was the time, said to be careful because these same rules, applied in Italy and with a system like ours, would have devastating effects compared to what Germany did in advance by fixing the accounts of its banks and sheltering its financial system from these turbulences. And what about the Bolkestein directive, which, applied in Italy (as we saw a few days ago), has produced devastating effects on the management of coasts and beaches? These are important aspects for the economy, which create resources, as is the case in Spain, but Spain has dealt with this issue in a concrete way and has gone ahead with a parachute. No, Mr President, we are not satisfied with this management. We will now see, when examining the amendments, what the attitude of the Government will be. We welcome the fact that many of our agendas have been received in the Commission, but we regret that the Commission has not accepted any amendments, because it is determined not to amend the provision in the Senate. However, citizens - and I start to conclude - need the government, before implementing and transposing European directives, to consider their impact on those who live it in reality, because all too often European directives are transposed only in order not to go into infringement, neglecting the fact that then these regulations must be applied. And the citizens, often and willingly, are dealing with an already too succumbing bureaucracy. On these things we want to make a difference; we wait for the amending phase to express a judgment. [[Applause from Senators Arrigoni, Casaletto and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u80	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gozi, it is the harmonisation of national and European legislation that is the subject of the delegation law. It is a delicate and important measure, because of its nature as an instrument for adapting what we produce in Italy from the legislative point of view and what it wants - it wants - the European Union, in all matters, from agriculture to industry, services of the service sector, to trade. It is a process that seems particularly difficult and traumatic for our country, because the lack of incisiveness of Italy at the European institutional level, in the right fora and in the right moments, determines a lack of ability to protect and safeguard the interests of the country in those fora and ensures that every year the Parliament and the Government are to adopt laws and acts with force of law, often very late compared to the European deadlines, under the threat of the start of new infringement procedures. As we all know, this means that our system is literally invaded by rules that are difficult to incorporate, when not completely conflicting with principles and interests that are important to our society. This draft law makes it clear that we have not been sufficiently present at the bottom of European legislative production. In addition, the Government was also uneasy to adopt measures and behaviours that could mitigate the impact of the conflict between national and European legislation and facilitate the adjustment process. A clear example is the fact that, while it is going to affect European legislation on widespread interests, its transposition has not been coordinated through the consultation of comparatively more representative trade associations, which should instead be of primary interest in order to study, in collaboration with such associations carrying legitimate interests, the most suitable solutions to protect the interests of citizens and the nation. For example, on this point in Article 20 of the measure, which lays down the guiding principles and criteria for the implementation of European Directive No 26 of 2014 on the collective management of copyright (within the competence of the 7th Commission), as rapporteur in this area I have been able to highlight some aspects, including the fact that, given the widespread and legitimate interests underlying the implementation of the delegation, the Government should necessarily, before the enactment of the planned legislative decree, question the sector associations, which in various ways are interested in the subject matter subject to legislative delegation. In addition, the need was stressed that, before the delegation was carried out, the Government should define in a precise manner the modalities for the participation of members in the decision-making processes of collective management organisations (always on copyright), in compliance with Article 8 of Directive 2014/26/EU, which establishes a fixed frequency, at least annually, of the convening of the general meeting of members. With regard to Article 5, which empowers the Government to adapt national legislation to European legislation on the provision of food information to consumers, and to adapt it to that on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs, I have tabled some amendments, given the importance of this issue for our agri-food sector, all too often vexed and mortified by Community policies which, too late, have discovered that in Italy and other national states biodiversity and traditional production processes and typicality are values and must be protected. Amendment 5.7 seeks to combat misleading practices in the trade in agricultural and agri-food products, including extra virgin olive oils, with a protected designation of origin (PDO), a protected geographical indication (PGI), a traditional speciality guaranteed (WG) or certificates which meet the requirements of rules relating to common market organisations (CMOs), for which we have proposed that the arrangements for the integration of labelling be carried out with safety systems set up by the Polygraph Institute and the Mint of the State, based on electronic or telematic elements. All this to considerably reduce the risk of counterfeiting, forgery, imitations and other non-truthful operations carried out on trademarks or trade marks, images or symbols referring to extra virgin olive oil and which appear directly on the packaging, on the label or on the closing device. Article 12 of the measure lays down the principles and guiding criteria of the delegation to the Government for the implementation of Directive 2366 of 2015 on payment services in the internal market. In particular, point (l) provides for a rationalization of the sanctioning system, in which, as the proceeds of such sanctions flow to the budget of the State, amendment 12.4 proposes to allocate them to the Fund for the reduction of the tax burden. Finally, on behalf of the Conservatives and Reformists, we have also proposed a more surgical intervention in Amendment 12.5, which provides for the possibility of assessing that the proceeds will contribute 50% to the interbank deposit protection fund, which in turn feeds the Solidarity Fund established by paragraph 856 of the Stability Act and intended for the compensation of bondholders of the four banks cleared for the three-year period 2017-2019 and 50% to the reduction of tax pressure, while from 2020 to the only fund for the reduction of tax pressure. In conclusion, it is clear that we must use this opportunity of debate in Parliament, between the Commission and Parliament, to determine a focus on the functioning of the rules and on the Community spirit of the Union. Everything that is happening in Europe, starting with Brexit, must open our eyes and ears to the reasons of the Union and verify the validity of being together and the popular perception of functions in our national and local communities. In short, we want to be European, but with more conviction and less repentance. [[Applause from Senators Gambaro and Zizza.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u82	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall not dwell on all the articles that make up the European delegation law, even though we should deal with every single point in order to highlight the fact that in most cases it is rhetorical orchestrations that weigh down our already proven legislative structure, which are unfit to lift the state from this pro-cyclical crisis, an emblem of a Europe that only knows how to sanction without taking into account the effects on the citizens. A Europe that even now requires us to be self-sanctioned, to find the sanctions that are most appropriate to us in the event of breaches of the obligations contained in the European directives, giving a blank card for new cases of criminal offences and administrative offences. I am talking about Article 2 and the fund of 100 million a year for sanctions. In practice, we self-sanction and divert assets that could be devoted to social. From the reading of the aforementioned law it seems that Italy prepares to transpose a whole series of measures that gradually make us think that the worst has passed. Yet I see nothing but empty frames and deep contradictions. In particular, I have focused on sanctions and measures to avoid trade in certain goods that could be used to carry out torture, inflict the death penalty and other cruel and degrading treatment or punishment. It seems to me, however, to be a measure that does not go against the fact of assisting in an ever-increasing nuclear arms race: more sophisticated and destructive devices every day. Are these not instruments capable of causing death? Italy has become an enormous arsenal for offensive and invasive military missions in the name of a neutrality only declared and never practiced. Not to mention that our state exports and sells weapons to countries that violate human rights or in any case to areas of conflict. They are in most of the "friend countries" with which we have business relations. So how can we refuse? Although this means endangering entire populations potentially subject to the death penalty, torture and degrading punishment, those same practices that would like to be banned. More than €8.2 billion is the value of arms exports by Italy in 2015, exports also destined to North Africa and the Middle East. Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, are just some of the countries to which there has been the surge of arms exports such as rockets, toxic and chemical agents and so on. In particular, exports to Turkey increased from EUR 53 million to EUR 129 million. Moreover, let us not forget that this European Union has made itself the protagonist of substantial resources to Turkey, where border guards are shooting at refugees, leaving Ankara to bomb the Kurdish people undisturbed. As regards the issue of trade embargoes, I would like to point out that the sanctions against Russia introduced by the European Union cost Italy 3.6 billion euros of exports, which mainly concerns the manufacturing sector in a period of deep industrial crisis in Italy, which every day assists in a large number of relocations by multinationals with significant job losses. In short, a really bad blow for Made in Italy. In general, I cannot agree with the positions of such a structured European Union, based on the continuing increase in the influence and power that large monopolies have in the economy and in the political conditioning of states. A European Union which, in actual fact, is preparing to protect consumers with regard to indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs, represents the tombstone of the Italian agricultural sector for the benefit of the circulation of goods at very low costs and of poor quality and at the expense of traditional and rooted crops that have ceased to be productive. This European Union is trying to curb air pollution on paper, and then, in fact, it does not pay attention to international literature on renewable sources of energy. This means that also extremely polluting sources of energy are covered, sealing them with considerable incentives. A Europe that is said to be attentive to the interests and protection of consumers and savers and then said from above as a bank resolution the bail in which created panic among savers without counting its unconstitutionality by contrast with Article 47 of our Constitution that protects savings in every form. For these and many other considerations to be taken, I feel once again that I am critical of and opposed to the European measures to be implemented. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u84	Madam President, I am speaking on the part of this draft law, Article 20, which refers to the protection and exercise of copyright. The essential content of the European Directive 2014/26, which we are called upon to implement, is the freedom of choice of the body for collective management of copyright by the rightholders themselves. In this regard, the Authority guarantor of the market and competition, in its opinion of 1 June last, warned the Parliament and the Government, in a very clear way, that the value and the very ratio of the European regulatory system are seriously compromised by the presence, within the national law, of the provision contained in Article 180 of the law 22 April 194, n. 633, (Law on copyright - LDA), now isolated in the panorama of the laws of the Member States, which assigns to a single subject (SIAE) the reserve of the activity of mediation of copyrights. So, a very tranchant relief, of which we cannot fail to take very carefully into account. The Authority continues to note that, in an economic context characterised by profound technological changes, the failure to open the national market for copyright management limits the freedom of economic initiative of operators and the freedom of choice of users. The maintenance of the legal monopoly appears, in fact, to be contrary to the objective of making effective the freedom of rightholders to make a choice between a plurality of operators able to compete with the incumbent without discrimination. The need for this draft law, now at second reading, to be adopted immediately without amendments, led the group of those who tabled amendments, in order to implement the opinion of the Antitrust Authority, to withdraw the amendments themselves, aimed at implementing the directive on this point, on the assumption that the Government accepted an agenda which was unanimously voted by the Commission and which was recalled by the rapporteur at the beginning of this debate. The agenda commits the Government, in a very precise way, to carry out an in-depth analysis of the results obtained - from the norm as it is, but the Antitrust warns us that the content of the directive is not sufficiently implemented - • in terms of transparency and efficiency of the activity today at the head of SIAE alone, in order to intervene later, also in the direction of the opening of the intermediary activity to other collective management bodies. This is a first commitment that, we trust, the Government will be able to carry out on time. The other commitment is to identify the best solutions to ensure the free market for copyright protection services, their efficiency and the greater solvency of the agencies carrying them out, in the light of the opinion of the Competition and Market Authority of 1 June 2016, and on the basis of the observation of the results achieved by the best practices of the other EU Member States and the evidence offered by the studies.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Therefore, a very precise commitment that must quickly lead to the overcoming of the current monopoly regime. This is the only way in which we can overcome the very serious inefficiencies - but I would also say inadmissible anomalies - that are recorded in the current management of this monopoly service. The organism that manages it, precisely as a monopolist, can maintain today a structure gravely hypertrophic, very expensive: it costs twice as much as CNEL; it is a cost that is overturned with the same authors of which instead that structure should be at the service. A structure managed with clientele and nepotistic criteria. In this regard, I must point out that, unfortunately, the very worrying news, given by various media and television channels, about the management of the thousands of employees of this structure, in terms of clientelism and nepotism, has not been denied. It is, above all, a structure which is incapable of guaranteeing the transparency required by the directive, both in the process of expelling copyright from those who use the work of art and, above all, in the distribution of the product to those who have straightened out. Today the distribution criteria to copyright holders are absolutely opaque, they do not guarantee any connection between the actual use and the contribution paid, nor between this and the profit for those who have the right. I conclude with the hope that the commitment made by the Government, with the inclusion of the agenda, which is re-proposed in the Assembly as the agenda of the Commission G20.101 - which we will ask to be put to the vote here too - to accept and implement the indications contained in the opinion of the Antitrust Authority, will be honoured in a thorough and timely manner, thus turning to a long season marked by the monopoly regime, which is seriously penalising literary and artistic activity in our country. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia and Sangalli. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u87	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to make the request for the closure of the sitting before 1 p.m. to allow the Senate League Group to attend a meeting with the House Group of the same name.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u88	If there are no objections to this, I believe that we can conclude the general debate and close the sitting without going through the articles. So it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u89	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, starting from the consideration that the Senate has examined European law and the House has hesitated without any change to our text, it also seems to be the case for the draft law of a European delegation from the House, which the Senate is preparing to vote as such. Having said that, I would ask you, Mr President, to allow me to hand over the text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the report and reserve the right to give some thought to the spirit of belonging to the EU.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u91	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u92	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Senators, I speak as a convinced Europeanist and federalist, but I am concerned about what is happening in Italy, where entire groups are concerned about membership of the European Community. It is today the news of a strong protest in the agricultural world - I am talking about wheat producers - who claim that wheat does not give bread. It collapses the price of wheat, Coldiretti and Confagricoltura (strangely together), CIA and Coopagri go down to the square to protest, complaining that the price has dropped almost to the historical minimum, that is to that of fifty years ago, against production prices that instead have more than doubled. All this stems from the import of the product from abroad, including the European Union. Undersecretary Gozi here knows very well what the farmers are asking for: the obligation of labelling containing the origin of the raw material, that is, indications on the quality of the product, that is, the wording made in Italy. It is on this recognition that consideration becomes political. The EU in fact denies this recognition, which has been requested several times, but we have never managed to obtain an opening, we have never managed to obtain a brand that guarantees the consumer, favouring Italian production which in many sectors is undoubtedly superior quality. Today we are talking about wheat, yesterday we talked about oil, citrus fruits, even before we talked about salami, before even milk and before even Parmesan and many other things. I wonder how we can convince these categories, which are also a backbone of our economy, to say that membership of Europe creates benefits for them. Of course, Made in Italy suffers from Italy's political weakness within the European Union and here comes my second reflection. Italy, as a founding State, does not enjoy the role that should be recognized and I do not speak of our President Renzi, but of Italy. The last example we had was at the meeting promoted by the new British Prime Minister, Mrs Theresa May, who summoned Germany, France and Ireland to discuss important issues, including official issues such as the release and writing times of the post Brexit cooperation treaties. At this point I have my third and final reflection, which concerns the 14th Commission, to which I belong. We believe that this Senate should take a decision with a possible amendment of the Rules of Procedure in order to highlight the importance of this Commission. In fact, the current Regulation provides that the members are also members of one of the other thirteen permanent Commissions, and this in fact means that they are unable to devote themselves completely to European issues, among which I also consider it important to strengthen the spirit of belonging to the European Union. It is true that we are waiting for the referendum, but I imagine what will happen in the case (unfortunately for my political or personal part) of a yes victory. I wonder what will happen to the discussion of European subjects, to which the new Senate will be assigned, where the new senators elected or appointed have a double role: that of mayor or regional councillor and, at the same time, that of senator. It really scares me to think that these people, although of superior intelligence, have more time to devote to the 14th Commission of what we do. Therefore, I do not believe that this new Senate is the panacea compared to what I am saying about the spirit of belonging to Italy and Italian politics, if we want, to the European Union. Of course I hope that the outcome of the referendum will be negative and then we will talk about it and talk about the Senate as we would like it and the 14th. The Commission, which has the utmost competence for European affairs. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u93	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u94	Madam President, the European delegation bill, in Article 19, calls on the Government to complete a path initiated in 2012 with Law No 190 (so-called the Severino Act), in relation to Article 2635 of the Civil Code on corruption between private individuals, especially reserved for infidelities with respect to office obligations, business leaders, mayors or auditors, if they cause damage to the company, following the promise or giving of money or other utility. Article 19 introduced by the House aims to fully implement the provisions contained in the framework decision of 2003, n. 568, JHA for the discipline of the crime of corruption between private individuals, a piece of a puzzle to combat a phenomenon wider and generally linked to crimes against public administration; a phenomenon that undermines the rules of competition in the internal market and the legal economy, a contrast to corruption to protect the financial interests of the European Union and to protect the rights of individual entrepreneurs; a corrupting phenomenon which undoubtedly harms a more general good, which is that of the integrity of the functioning of the rule of law, undermines democracy and the rules of Community living. It is a phenomenon, corruption, which, in addition to subtracting resources from the real economy cycle and employment opportunities, discourages and drives away external investments and therefore potential for growth, because it breaks the relationship of trust that binds citizens, businesses and the state, feeds the perception of widespread distrust, undermines social and economic cohesion. This has led by Framework Decision No 584 of 2002 on the European arrest warrant to include corruption in the list of offences in respect of which no prior verification of double criminality is required for the application of the measure. In this context, therefore, it is particularly important to establish common minimum standards for defining the same criminal case, which can be prosecuted in all Member States, which are still missing today. The Council of Europe, with the approval of the Criminal Convention on Corruption in 1999, established by a specific protocol a group of States, the Greco Group, for the identification of good practices to combat this corruption, both public and private. Precisely in the third report of the group "Greco" in 2012 it was pointed out that the phenomenon of corruption between private individuals is perceived as less widespread and less serious and that in Italy there was no effective application at that date of the provisions of Article 2635 of the Civil Code, introduced in 2002, not recording any incrimination under that rule. To ensure, therefore, effective and effective prosecution of conduct of private corruption, as set out in the 2003 Decision of which the delegation law complements implementation, is a priority, in order to include in this case incriminating both active and passive conduct, extending responsibility to legal persons benefiting from such corruptive acts, legal persons for profit, but also non-profit legal persons. The aim of this fight is, in fact, to focus on the very culture of corruption, which can manifest itself both in the private economic sector and in the public administration. More specifically, the Framework Decision invites States to take measures to ensure that intentional conduct constitutes criminal offences if carried out in the context of professional activities, incitement and aiding, private incitement exceeding the current forecast referred to in Article 414 of the Criminal Code, including the provision of professional procedure, as well as proportionate and dissuasive penalties for the legal persons responsible, including interdictive ancillary penalties such as the prohibition of temporary pursuit of activities. A specific and significant ancillary penalty could be included, and in our system it could act as an effective deterrent and would constitute a measure of justice, i.e. the exclusion of the company responsible for corruption from public aid, state aid and any other form of public economic or financial support. The complete implementation of the principles and guiding criteria set out in Article 19 would allow, finally, to resolve a procedure of the European Commission EU pilot of 2015 for failure to communicate the national measures transposing the 2003 Framework Decision, in order to complete the forecast of the Severino law (Law No 190 of 2012) of punishable private corruption also for those who claim an undue advantage; corruption between private individuals, in violation of their duties to protect a good that is an expression of loyalty and trust, indispensable for healthy professional relations between private individuals as in the public sector, symptom and measure of the degree of civic sense, respect of the written rules but also moral and ethical that civil coexistence imposes because the damage is produced even when there is no real loss for the company, but only for having generated a corruptive relationship in violation of the rules of fair competition. Fight against the deviant and illegal economy against which in these two years we have defined new instruments of contrast, from the strengthening of the powers of the DAC, to the introduction of the crime of autocycling, to the tightening of the penalties for the crimes against the public administration and the re-introduction of the criminal case of crime of the false declarations in the writing of the business budgets. The European Union, with the Lisbon Treaty, has set itself the ambitious objective of creating an area of freedom of security and justice; an objective that involves determination in defining new and effective instruments to combat serious phenomena, such as terrorism, immigration management and asylum, the fight against crime and fraud, including corruption, as indicated in the anti-corruption package presented by the European Commission in 2011. They are pieces that in fact constitute the bricks on which to lay the foundations of that new united Europe that everyone invokes and that since yesterday we have been called to build more quickly, narrower, but also more rigorously in terms of legality; more democratic, closer to the citizens and more careful to deliver to future generations a more just but above all safer union. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u95	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u96	As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in his reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u97	Madam President, I would ask that my reply be postponed to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u98	In accordance with the terms of the agreement, I shall then refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u101	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, a few days ago, I met a delegation of workers from the former Lucchini steel factories in Piombino and the pipeline that gathered and associated with the Coordination of Article 1 - Camping IGC. These workers joined in a Coordination to protect their right to work, increasingly challenged by wrong labour and industrial policies and the lack of decisive and clear intervention by the institutions and trade unions. Piombino's steel works in recent years have moved from the management of the Lucchini family to the Russian company Severstal, to the acquisition of Cevital's Algerians. On March 11, 2015 I had already filed the act of inspection union 4-03838, at the Ministry of Economic Development, in which I had requested full access to the acts concerning the agreement between Government and Cevital. However, this request has never been answered. By now we have realized that having answers from this government is almost impossible, like winning the lottery! I remember that the agreement, signed between the president of the company Cevital, Issad Rebrab, and the extraordinary commissioner of the steel works of Piombino, Mr Piero Nardi, at Palazzo Chigi, in the presence of President Renzi, the Minister of Economic Development, the president of the Region Tuscany Enrico Rossi and the mayor of Piombino had a great, great media relevance. President Renzi declared: "Express joy, satisfaction and gratitude because this is the strategic agreement that represents a great message to foreign investors and for the future of an absolutely decisive sector for tomorrow. (...). Piombino is a piece of the future of Italy. We wonder, then, what future was offered to the city of Piombino today. What future has been offered to workers, who are thousands? Meanwhile, the city of Piombino dies and we see the closure of small shops and the three-fold increase in the number of evictions only in the last year. The events following the agreement clearly deny the statements made by Renzi following the agreement with Cevital. When I met the workers, I had very few data, but they are fundamental. The industrial plan of April 2015, annexed to the June 2015 Programme Agreement, on which all the agreements signed so far are based, has never been implemented. Secondly, the procedure for verifying the need for EIA is based on a reduced industrial plan and, therefore, there is a certain prospect that not all workers will be able to have the job insured. Thirdly, there is no security over funding either for working people or for investment. Even if Cevital carried out the industrial plan, albeit in a small version, the Piombino plant would not have a certain future without the launch of a national steel plan, which would enable the various steel sites to be brought into synergy and promote research in order to achieve ever higher quality products. Finally, there are strong doubts about what will happen on 1 July 2107, when Aferpi will no longer have legal obligations to continue business for at least a two-year period and to maintain, for the same period, the employment levels set at the time of sale. Madam President, this is a tragedy. The city is dying. We only had promises and faded. At this moment, the city, on its knees, asks us to ask you for certain and precise answers. I call on you, Madam President, to urge the relevant ministries to answer the umpteenth question - the second - which I have tabled in recent days. Thank you, Madam President. There really is a need for answers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u102	The Presidency will take charge of intervening with the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-665.ana.u103	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.48 p.m.
