ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr BERGER, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.04).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u4	The next item is the joint debate on documents VIII. 7 (Report of Senate revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2015) and 8 (Project of Senate internal budget for the financial year 2016). The rapporteur, Senator Tonini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. Pending the arrival of Senator Tonini, I briefly suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 16.05 a.m. and resumed at 16.07 a.m.) The session is resumed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u5	Mr President, I apologise to you and your colleagues for this expectation, because the work of the Budget Commission has just ended. Mr President, Rule 165 of our Rules of Procedure requires the President of the 5th Commission to examine the draft budget and the final account, together with the Presidents of the other Commissions, and to report back to the House. Draft budget and final account which, as is well known, are prepared by the College of Quaestors and approved by the Presidency Council. Last night there was the meeting of the Presidents of the Commissions with the Senators Quaestors, the draft budget of 2016 and the final account of 2015 were examined and, albeit briefly, discussed by colleagues. In trying to summarize the considerations that we have drawn up together, I would like to start from a parliamentary act voted by the Senate Assembly in the 16th legislature and that can be defined as the founding act of a new course in the management of resources that public finance makes available to the Senate as the Chamber of Deputies. This new course has been, in my view, brilliantly embodied by the College of Quaestors and the budgetary maneuvers carried out in recent years and in this legislature. I am referring to the agenda G100 of 3 August 2011, then in the 16th legislature; in the terrible summer of the most serious financial crisis, of public finance in a particular way, that our country remembers from the post-war period onwards, the famous summer of the spread (a few months later the Berlusconi government would have fallen replaced by the Monti government). We were therefore in a situation of great political, social and economic tension. In that context, the G100 agenda, signed by the leaders of the main groups of the time, namely colleagues Gasparri, Finocchiaro, Bricolo and others, identified a precise programme of restructuring and reorganization of the expenditure available to the Senate, starting from the situation of the country, with a strong call to the sense of responsibility and coherence of the parliamentarians and political groups. It identified a programme of expenditure cuts and introduced a contribution of equalization to the vitalities, higher wage cuts, the blocking of the adjustment of the benefits and vitality of the senators, a rationalization of the real estate assets, interventions aimed at stabilising over time and strengthening the trend of reducing overall expenditure. In particular, it identified three major structural issues on which to intervene: firstly, to distinguish and highlight social security expenditure from the rest of operating expenditure; secondly, to revise expenditure by introducing the concept of zero-based budget, i.e. the remotivation of the whole system of expenditure by overcoming, with a little optimism of the will (then we know that things are increasingly difficult to make of what is to be achieved), the budget on the basis of historical expenditure; thirdly, the progressive integration of functions and administrative structures of the two branches of Parliament. I think that in relation to this ambitious programme, the draft budget 2016 and the 2015 budget presented to us by the quaestor senators, who will then explain it in detail, and which was approved by the Presidency Council, present absolutely important and important results. In particular, I would like to highlight a fundamental fact that is that of final expenditure, which falls from 520 million in 2012 to 495 million in 2015. It is rare to find an administration that reduces expenditure in nominal and final terms. Often it is called spending reductions the targets of reducing the trend increase. In this case, we are talking about a reduction in nominal expenditure, including the trend of inflation, and at the end of the day, so these cuts are actually made. The draft budget also highlights the constraints with which the quaestors must operate, which are an absolutely large dimension of compulsory expenditure, 471 million (including savings to be paid to the State) out of about 500 million gross. Therefore, compulsory expenditure is indeed a heavy constraint within which those who prepare the budget obviously move with some difficulty. Well, I think it can be said that the trend towards which we are going, which is confirmed in the draft budget for 2016 and which I imagine will also be confirmed for the rest of the legislature, allows us to say that the mission indicated by the G100 agenda of 2011 is largely accomplished. If we go to see the four fundamental, more important and also politically more sensitive voices, let's say, operating expenses, we see that there is a slight decrease in expenditure for senators and groups (from 99 million in 2013 and 2014 to 98 in 2015), there is a strong decrease in staff expenditure, which means that it increases the productivity of work in the Senate and also increases the commitment of our collaborators and staff at all levels (from 123 million in 2013 to 102 million in 2015) and instead there is a different dynamic of social security expenditure. We have a decrease, albeit modest but significant, in the expenditure for former senators (from 80 million in 2013 to 78 in 2015) is instead there is a significant increase in the pension for staff that is in some way also the other side of the reduction of the current expenditure for the staff in service. It is clear that encouraging staff to leave leads to an increase in social security expenditure. This is a structural element of concern about the future of the structure of our budget, because we have a total decrease in operating expenditure ranging from 309 million in 2013, to 293 million in 2014 and 272 million in 2015, significantly reducing, and an overall efficiency of the machine, and in parallel we have a growth in social security expenditure, ranging from 203, to 207, to 223 million in 2015, with an incidence ranging from 40% in 2013 to 45% in 2015. This trend will lead, within a few years, to a balance between the two voices or even an overtaking by social security expenditure. Looking at the budget - I also spoke to my fellow Presidents yesterday - I can only hand over to the House and, of course, first of all, to the President, the assessment of the appropriateness and feasibility of a structural intervention on this aspect, promoted precisely by the presidencies of the Senate and the Chamber in agreement with the other constitutional bodies and with the Government, aimed at the creation of a social security institution to which to confer part of the assets: liabilities, i.e. social security treatments, and activities, i.e. contributions and transfers by the State. This is to free the budget of the Senate and the House in perspective, that is Parliament's budget, from such a heavy and significant voice. I conclude with one last remark: I believe that in recent years a very positive work has been started on the integration of the structures between the House and the Senate. There is also talk - and I think it is a very important and interesting element - of a unique role of staff between Chamber and Senate. All the more in anticipation of a reform that changes the functions of Chamber and Senate (on this of course we will see what the outcome of the popular vote will be), I believe that the theme of a specialization of staff within a single role is an absolutely important element to allow to face not only from the point of view of the budget policy, but with structural interventions the theme of the optimal use of resources that the Country makes available to Chamber and Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u6	Mr President, since this morning's work did not end with the vote on the fifth document drawn up by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, I would like to know whether, after the vote on the internal budget documents, we will actually resume that point or continue with the European delegation law. I think this information is due to who, like me, doesn't know.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u7	It is clear that only internal budgetary documents will be examined in today's afternoon sitting. During tomorrow's afternoon's sitting, work will resume with the agenda cut off. It seemed to me to have made it clear: tomorrow it will resume with the examination of the document of the Junta concerning Senator Giarrusso and which was on the agenda. Excuse me, I didn't know. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But Senator Orellana, the Presidency is not an information office. [[Senator Puglia's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u10	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, just for a brief communication to the Assembly: following the resignation of President Schifani, the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) met today and elected Senator Laura Bianconi as new Parent Company. I wanted to communicate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u11	We wish Senator Bianconi every success.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us bring to the attention of the House the forecast budget for the financial year 2016 and the statement for the financial year 2015. As in previous years, the Senate has not escaped at all, in a moment that remains of great economic difficulty for many Italians, despite the first timid signs of recovery, the commitment that unites the whole country aimed at improving public finances. Let us now go a little more into the details of the entries of the two documents that we are going to analyse and which I will briefly explain. I would like to take this opportunity to thank President Tonini for his illustration of both the statement and the budget. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Therefore, as far as the statement is concerned, the total expenditure of Palazzo Madama stands at 495 million: I would say it goes under 500 million euros for the first time in recent decades. I believe that this is a very important result for what concerns the spending of our Senate and, even, I would say that the first six months of 2016 let us hope and understand that we can even improve this performance. There has therefore been special attention to those that are the real costs, because in the report they are reported the actual expenses, that for the first time they are placed under the 500 million euros. The total expenditure of Palazzo Madama in terms of cash is therefore reduced by 5.8 million euros and this is a level of expenditure which is equivalent to that of ten years ago. Overall, the actual expenditure of the Senate has been reduced by almost 5% (precisely 4.83) since the beginning of this legislature. The budget is the main item in the Senate's revenue, which stands at EUR 505.360.500. This year the Senate closes in surplus, with an operating surplus of 44 million euros. Remaining still in the field of accounting, operating expenses fall to 272 million euros, with a decrease of 37 million euros compared to the 2013 expenditure, that of the beginning of the legislature, and cover 54.9% of the total expenditure. This part of the Palazzo Madama budget, as you can see, is in sharp decline, while, on the other hand, social security expenditure stands at 45.1 percent. In reviewing the main management events of the financial year 2015, to which the statement refers, I signal the 11 million euros to return to the budget of the State as a result of the savings of expenditure obtained in 2014, and the realized economies, pairs to 4,4 million euros, in effect, precisely, of the decisions of the Council of Presidency in the matter of wages. Always giving a quick look at the other items of expenditure, I would like to point out that the treatment of staff involved in special institutional secretariats in 2014-2015 saw a decrease of about 10%, with a further decrease compared to the initial cuts that had been made with the President of the Senate at the first meeting of the 2013 Presidency Council (from 30 to 40%). In the same vein, it is also the chapter of former senators who ceased their term of office, who are further reduced by about three percent. As far as healthcare is concerned, the budget is also positive in this case: in 2015 there is a total management surplus of 1,267 million, remembering that healthcare is fully financed by the senators, therefore by each of us and not by the Senate coffers. On the employee front, a positive trend is confirmed, with a reduction of salaries of 14.13 percent; from 123 million euros to 102 million euros compared to the previous year. As a result, the administrative social and tax burden is clearly reduced: -2.5 million euros compared to 2014, almost -6 million euros compared to 2013. With regard to expenditure on services, supplies and the functioning of the institution, the Senate recorded in 2015 a further reduction of 3.8 million, equal to 8.66 percent compared to 2014, and a decrease of 8.8 million, which is -18 percent, compared to the beginning of the legislature. So, compared to the beginning of the legislature, we have about 20% less than service costs. At this point I would move on to the 2016 forecast budget. The outputs will amount to 544 million euros, net of the savings to be paid to the state. Once again, the Senate reduces its spending for the sixth consecutive year, which means that, from a financial point of view, the Senate is lightened thanks to a series of actions put in place that aim, precisely, to reduce spending. The relationship between the actual expenditure of the Senate - the actual expenditure is that of the accounts and not of the estimates - and the state budget has decreased, over ten years (2006-2015) from 0.083 to 0.060 of this year, obtaining a significant saving compared to the trend we are pursuing. The lower financial weight is measured by taking into account two parallel tracks: on the one hand, there is the lower allocation, which is a structural figure, i.e. the lower resources required of the State; on the other hand, the additional savings that, thanks to better resource use and lower expenditure, we have managed to achieve. From the structural data there is a lower budget from the State, that it reduces every year of 21,6 million euros: therefore from 2013 to today we record a negative sign of 86,4 million euros that Palazzo Madama has asked less from the Italian State. On the other hand, in parallel, there are two additional savings and this means that in recent years, from 2013 to today, in addition to the 86.4 million euros of less endowment, the Senate, thanks to the efforts put on the field, returns to the State an additional 65.5 million euros. Therefore, in an overall context, the burden of the Senate on public finance has been reduced by 152 million euros: 152 million euros less than in this legislature the Senate has asked and has spared. I would now come to the analysis of macro-aggregated spending on senators, staff and services. As for the staff, today I would like to say that I believe this is the first time, not only that we have fallen below EUR 500 million in the budget and in the statement, but also that the Senate is tinged with roses in its staff. Of the current 669 collaborators we have (I remember that we have gone from 1,098 to 669, so with a strong contraction of the staff) we have recorded the overtaking of the female component, equal to 354 units, against 315 male employees, therefore also the Senate is really dyed pink. By the way, next to the Senate Chamber, for the first time, we opened a nursery for Senator mothers and today was announced the third birth. There are therefore great news in the Senate: the Senate is dyed pink and we have the first children, so it means that the Senate is renewed also with respect to its members and the structure itself since, among other things, at the management we have a Secretary General woman, so we really have an important female component within our Administration. The first positive result was the reduction in the salary chapter, which fell from €98.6 million to €94.5 million compared to the 2015-2016 budget. Just to make a comparison, I would like to say that this is even less than the 2003 figure when the salary chapter was around 100 million. In addition, again as a result of the choices made by the Presidency in the area of wages, savings of €6.2 million for 2016 have been achieved, which will produce overall savings of €36.7 million always for employees. In addition to these first two figures, there is a trend for wage dynamics, which also falls by about 30% compared with 2011 in this case. Turning to the senators, the continuation of measures to limit parliamentary compensation and ancillary powers will result in a lower burden of around 31 million euros for expenditure on all of us. Therefore, even on this aspect there is always attention to the outside and the needs that there are. For God's sake, you can always do more, but I think the attention that the Senate and the senators are showing is really important. I am referring to a reduction of EUR 31 million which adds further, precisely for this time of particular difficulty, to a solidarity contribution that intervenes on the budget, removing an additional EUR 18.4 million. These are the interventions that we have made, even on us, regarding the situations of need that are outside, with respect to which we maintain a high attention. With regard to transparency services - as I define them - for 2016 savings are equal to an amount that today is prudential, but can already be estimated at 9 million euros. These lower costs result from tendering procedures carried out. This is the attention we wanted to pay precisely to make the Senate budget transparent and all the races, with fellow Quaestors Malan and Bottici, whom I thank for the work we are doing together with all the other collaborators. We have achieved an estimated savings of 9 million euros following all possible procedures with the Council, therefore with the electronic market, and we are looking in every way to proceed jointly with the Chamber to arrive at a single central purchasing body, as provided for by the new regulations. I believe that these are fundamental aspects in order to ensure that Parliament, in its complexity, can have transparency and lower costs, starting with the digital production centre, audio-television monitoring, the web TV, the platform for press agencies, travel agencies, insurance, IT infrastructure, catering, pre-press, press review, the LAN network, and so on. We also have a green senate, very green, starting with electric cars. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio]] From this point of view, also other public administrations are copying us; we have inserted for the first time these machines that are essential to move in particular in the city, for which we do not pay any stamp, that do not pollute and that testify the attention that we wanted to reserve to this path. In addition to electric cars, I remember that for years now the Senate has signed contracts for the supply of energy exclusively from renewable sources. 90 percent of the lamps installed in the buildings are low-consumption with, in addition to the green appearance, a saving of about 2 million euros only with regard to the electrical component. Equally important is the photovoltaic system of 200 kilowatts at our logistic center, which allows the zeroing of the electric bill of the structure and, in five years, also the payment of the costs for the installation of the same system. I believe that this is also one of those important aspects that the Senate can boast of. It's a very green, very green Senate. Another aspect is the fight against food waste. As requested by the agendas put forward by my fellow Members, we have included a forecast in the new catering competition, precisely because ensuring the quality of expenditure also means combating food waste in the distribution and catering sectors. I move to the sector of digital printing and prepressing and digitization. On this front too, the Senate has made great progress. Just these days, among other things, we are witnessing the birth of a prepress service that should lead to annual savings of at least 400,000 euros. We are proceeding with a strong digitization, precisely to allow all this to be done within the offices of the Senate, despite the great reduction - I repeat - of the personnel involved. On the computer infrastructure front, Palazzo Madama has been focusing on innovation since last year. The Senate is equipped with workstation virtualization technologies and thus becomes a model for all the parliaments of Europe. We are the only ones, together with Portugal, to have the cloud technology, which we all know because of mobile phones or other systems; precisely for this reason, in relation to the savings that come from digital printing services and new IT infrastructures, with the entry into the system of all these tools, we will have less expense for 2 million euros per year. In these days, various digital printers are being installed that can also be connected via wi-fi and new terminals are being inserted into the various offices, both the Administration and the senators. Equally, with regard to the containment of consumption, the green aspect implies a reduction in energy consumption estimated at 300 megawatts per hour for the year of operation. As far as information is concerned, as you saw last summer with the representatives of the press, we revisited the organization of the sector with a press room dedicated to anyone who wants to make statements in order to give, even with digital contexts and new technologies, greater communication and information especially outside. President, the issue of integration between the House and the Senate I would like to present as the present and future. President Grasso, also in the penultimate Council of Presidents, strongly reiterated that the process of integration between the two branches of Parliament started at the beginning of our parliamentary term, beyond any constitutional change. He left with the first resolution of 2013. We have said that we must play a single role and a single statute for employees, create parliamentary status, integrate all the services that can be unified in order to have less spending and more rationalization of services in order to create a Parliament that is increasingly attentive to internal and external needs. That is precisely why we are continuing strongly with this commitment. Today I would like to say to my colleagues and friends in the other branch of Parliament that we need to do quickly because achieving this objective also means giving a concrete answer to so many questions that citizens are asking about structures, administration and internal organisation. This also means proceeding along a path of harmonization - I use a time-limit used in these months - of the rules for accounting and drawing up an integrated budget which gives accounting evidence of the savings achieved by carrying out joint activities. I read this sentence so I wouldn't miss it. It is essential that the two rooms are endowed, each in its own autonomy, transparency and freedom of choice, with an integrated budget that must have in common all the integrations that we are achieving. If we play the unique role of staff, it is clear that it goes into a single budget; if we create a single library, it is clear that it goes into the integrated budget, beyond the independent choices of the two branches of Parliament. I believe that this is another of the fundamental aspects that we must achieve in the future. We have done an important job on these issues, but we must finish it. My call is very transparent but determined to achieve an objective that is not biased, but for the parliamentary institutions. I believe that this is, beyond two budgets, one of the fundamental aspects that Chamber and Senate must achieve, as far as I am concerned, in the shortest possible time. Compared to the unique role of the staff, the status of the parliamentarians, the unification of the offices and the integrations there is a whole series of evaluations of the staff of this and the other branch for which we must find the best solutions in order to provide tranquility regarding the paths that each of them has made in their working life. In conclusion, I have given figures and made some small reasoning. All this could not have been done if we had not had the collaboration of all those people who work within our institution, who are so often reproached outside, but who possess a professionalism that belongs to a constitutional body, which is completely different from any public or private institution. Inside the Senate, precisely as a constitutional body, there are in fact different things, which must be maintained and guaranteed. The thought and thanks of my colleagues and Quaestors go first to the Secretary General, who is behind me, to the Deputy Secretaries General and to the Directors of Service, as well as to the parliamentary assistants, who often do with us a work of attention to the debate... DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). ... vibrant. De Poli, Senator Commissioner... in the good sense of the House. I thank them for so many times, in order to do our work, we receive words, even if they are spoken in a good and legitimate sense. I would like to thank the employees for the work they do in this House and throughout the Senate, in various ways. I would also like to thank for their work all the law enforcement forces - police and police - who work with us to ensure security outside and in our concierge (we often do not see them or see them very well). Finally, I would like to thank all my colleagues who have listened to me very carefully and, of course, I cannot fail to thank the President of the Senate, who is always attentive to our budget management work and also to the work that is often carried out in the dark, but which is everyday. Normality is in fact the fundamental thing to keep the institutions going. Along with normality, there are fundamental aspects, such as those I have stated before. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed, FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u13	I thank Senators Quaestors for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u16	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). I apologize to Senator Castaldi. Mr President, it would be useful to know the inadmissibility of the agenda before we proceed with the presentation of the agendas. In this way one could understand what is to be illustrated and what is not.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u17	I listen to illustrations, which can also be useful in deciding. Please, Senator Castaldi, I call you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u18	Mr President, it would indeed be appropriate to know inadmissibility in advance, because otherwise we risk setting out agendas which are later declared inadmissible. However, I am going to explain the content of the G13 agenda (which will certainly be declared inadmissible), G15 and G16. Let's talk about vitality. I address you, Mr President, and all the senators. The agendas presented to the Senate's draft internal budget by the 5 Star Movement concern termination, reduction, non-cumulability, and adaptation to the contributory system, in order to abolish a national shame. I am referring to the national shame which is most unbearable, unjust, unfair and infamous: the vitality of Members of Parliament, or those who have reduced us under these conditions. We are talking about vitalities recognized to those who destroyed Italy and rich prizes given to the political class that killed our country. Ten million Italians are below the poverty line; they close three hundred and eighty businesses a day; one out of three pensioners takes less than 1,000 euros a month; and in here they spend 83 million euros a year to fatten those who are already abundantly fat. Italian politicians should give back to the citizens the money perceived by the State, for the disasters committed; but vice versa the Italians themselves, annihilated by them, pay these crazy vitalities to these lords, outside of all logic and financial sustainability. 1,899,925 pensioners receive less than EUR 499 per month; 4,731,779 pensioners receive between EUR 500 and 999 per month. And in here, vitals, pre-clothes, and drooling rents. To increase minimum pensions there is never money; for vitality there are always. Normal people retire more and more later, because money is never there; for vitality there are always. Justice is collapsed, because there is no money; for vitalities there are. Health destroys us, because the money is not there; for the vitality there are. For citizens there is never money; for them they are always found, for politicians the dish is always rich. Is this justice according to you? Is that justice? The citizens are all the same, says the Constitution, but some have vitality and others starve. The savings of the constitutional reform Verdini-Boschi can be achieved without distorting the Republican Constitution, in a beating. You know how? Even voting on one of the 5 Star Movement's agendas. With one vote today we can save more than we save with the Masonic reform that you want to approve. With one vote, 83 million euros a year could come out of these golden palaces and enter the pockets of the poorest citizens of this country. The abolition of parliamentary vitality is not only an integral part of the mission that the 5 Star Movement has, but it is what all Italians, with the exception of those who perceive the vitality, ask with a loud voice; and we here are that voice. In addition to the complete abolition of the vitalities, we demand at least a reduction in their situation in relation to the country and especially in relation to the legislation in force. Since - I am sure - you will be entrenched behind the unconstitutional nature of the complete abolition of vitalities, I would like to inform the House that the Constitutional Court has recently found the so-called solidarity contribution on pensions of the highest amount compatible with the constitutional dictation, excluding its tax nature and considering that it is an internal solidarity contribution to the social security system, justified by the contingent and serious crisis of the system. So, if you really can't abolish the vitality, at least a little bit of dignity gives it to the citizens. But I'm sure you won't vote for anything, as you've always done over the years. So, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that vitality is atrociously unworthy of society and it is a negation and an offense of the just. Therefore, on behalf of all the normal and honest citizens of this country, I ask and beg you: abolish the vitality, abolish this shame or at least reduce this infamy, before this infamy definitively overwhelms you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u19	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u20	Mr President, I am not going to make a propaganda intervention, but I have a real difficulty in separating lies from nonsense in what I have just heard, in this demagogic and lying manphrine. I would like to remind those who preceded me that in this nation there are from seven to nine million Italians taking, as former states, a salary pension and non-contributory. Every single Italian, for whom this scheme applies, receives about 60% more of the pension fund than the contributions he has paid. If this were a nation in which Pulcinella had not arrived in Parliament's classrooms, who speak without even having the notion of arithmetic, we would have to say that the institution of figurative pensions, which is a disaster of stateism, costs us from 70 to 80 billion euros per year more. Now, making questions about the lives of Members of Parliament for 80 million compared to 83 billion seems to me a nonsense that only someone who is unwise and in perfect bad faith can speak for propaganda purposes in this House, in the bored silence, and unfortunately complacent of many others. In front of me, for example, I see Senator Ichino, who could punctually contradict these nonsense and amenities. I say this not because I have to defend someone. This nation has 2,200 billion euros of debt and pays more than 80 billion of passive interest because a bottom-up, redundant, inefficient, pauperistic, welfare and clientele state for fifty years has used the lever of spending at increasing debt. And he did it not for his parliamentarians, but for the Italians, wrong or right. Well, it seems strange to me that the scandal, the punctum dolens of the Italian waste and economic disaster can be charged to a few thousand Members who enjoy the vitality. I would also like to remind you that the constituents of that time anticipated this form of provision (which is contributory, in our case, and not remuneration, for a few years) in order to give the possibility to those who were not of high census, to those who did not exercise a liberal profession, but who lived either in a trade or had a job, to continue to live decently having held the high office of parliamentary of the Republic. It seems to me that it was the Communist Party, through its members, that gave this opportunity. Now, let some kicking come and tell us in here that this is... CASTALDI (M5S). You kicked your son! (Senator Castaldi is heading for Senator D'Anna.) D'ANNA (AL-A). Come here! Come on! [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u21	Senator D'Anna, please don't provoke! D'ANNA (AL-A). A fucking senator, ignorant and donkey that you can't do the most.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u22	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Come on! Everyone, come! (Senators Quaestors and assistants intervene to stop Senator Castaldi. Senator Lucidi goes under the bench of Senator D'Anna, who throws him a sheet and then a file). You're a fucking senator, donkey and ignorant. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] Go away! Let me talk, you moron! Let me talk! [[Live Senator Airola's comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u23	Senator D'Anna, please don't provoke.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u24	[[Senator Taverna and Catalfo's comments]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Get out! Get out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, stick to the subject on the agenda. Please don't provoke. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] D'ANNA (AL-A). I demand the right to speak in this House without being interrupted or offended. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But you have no right to provoke. D'ANNA (AL-A). But mine is a reaction. Explain that to these cheap provocateurs. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u25	Yes, Senator, but always keeping to the limits of criticism and opinions, and not with offense, because they provoke reactions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u26	D'ANNA (AL-A). Mine's a reaction. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Go home, go away! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish your surgery, Senator. D'ANNA (AL-A). I say this to hand these revolutionaries to the clams, who tell lies and who do not distinguish the millions from the billions. These little fascists who don't scare anyone. [[Protests from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u27	Senator D'Anna, please don't provoke.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u28	D'ANNA (AL-A). Go away, Lucidi, go away. [[Ironic applause from Senator Lucidi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u29	Senator D'Anna, I begged you to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u30	D'ANNA (AL-A). I'm finishing, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The point of your speech is very clear. D'ANNA (AL-A). The causes of the breakdown are quite different. What we have just heard is cheap propaganda that must be sent back to those who use cheap arguments. [[Protests from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from Senator Lucidi]] TAVERNA (M5S). When it comes down here, we throw some books, too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. CATALFO (M5S). You're allowed to throw everything anyway. Senator Cioffi's throwing something, too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi, you asked to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u31	Mr President, in addition to explaining the agenda, I have to say a word of thanks to the senator who has just spoken, because speaking he has expressed what he is, that is, what he does not have in his head, because that is what he has done. [[Applause from the M5S Group.Comments by Senator D'Anna]] Since he is allowed to say things, he has always declared himself a liberal, and has been part of what has happened in this Parliament and of what has happened in the last 20 years... D'ANNA (AL-A). Answer the arguments, clown. CIOFFI (M5S). Because its political side has contributed profoundly to sinking even a liberal hypothesis of this state, not respecting the rules. So he totally contradicts what he says he is and his ideology. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us explain the agendas to the budget. CIOFFI (M5S). So I send back the accusations of fascism because they come out of the mouth of someone who maybe fascism has it in his soul. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And forgive me if I say so. Having said that, we were talking about the equalization of the treatment of former senators to the contributory system. (Senator Santangelo shoots with his cell phone.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, you know it's not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] I beg the assistants to provide. Senator Santangelo, you know it's not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. CATALFO (M5S). Not even throwing cards is allowed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi, please continue. CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, you will understand that provocations are disturbing in people's minds. If people want to provoke, please come, but do so clearly and not as instrumental as it has been done. I could add a lot of things, but I want to get to the subject we were talking about, namely the equalization of the vitality of the previous system with the contributory system that, as we know, has been modified by the government in the last parliamentary term. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u32	Senator Orellana, please. As a senator intervenes, please avoid the dialogues.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u33	Senator Martelli, have a seat. Senator Martelli is calling you to order. Senator Cioffi is taking action. CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, with all due respect, you called Senator Martelli, but with Senator D'Anna you want to call him back to order! CATALFO (M5S). Senator D'Anna threw papers and files. CIOFFI (M5S). Let's go back to the subject if we can. We said it was a simple matter of justice. This is not about 80 million or 80 billion. If we were correct, we should, theoretically, set the example. We must start with ourselves because we do this: let us try to set an example. We cut our salaries to set an example. I'm Salerno, I'm Campania, as you know, and we say the fish stinks from the head. So we're gonna give this fish a little life and a little healthy smell? Let's start doing something. We have cases, unfortunately, of former Members and Ministers of this Republic who have taken EUR 9,000 a month of vitality since they were forty-eight years old. The example is Pecoraro Scanio just to say first and last names. I don't think it's a good thing for citizens to see these things happen. So why do the citizens, the civil servants, and today the parliamentarians also have the contributory system and do they not? What are we asking? We are asking to set an example and we are asking the highest representatives of this people. Do we have the courage to tell the high representatives of this people that they must set an example to the people because otherwise the people are pissed off? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is what happens, Mr President. And as long as we are there, in a sense the drama and despair of people find the possibility of being represented by the 5 Star Movement. But if there weren't the Movement, what would happen? Would what doesn't have to happen happen? [[Comments of Senator Borioli]] So, Mr President, we must have the courage to say to all those who feel honored and who attribute themselves to the title of honourable Member of the Republic, who must also set an example for them. We must say to these gentlemen: let us recalculate your vitality, your pensions, with the contributory system and let us not only do equity but give an example. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u34	It is registered to speak Senator Moronese, who during his speech will also illustrate the agendas of the day G17, G30, G39 and G41. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u35	Mr President, the agendas I intend to present are all about transparency. I want to illustrate first of all the agenda G30 because Legislative Decree No. 33 of 2013 provides that all public administrations must publish on their institutional site all acts concerning the Administration. Well, it preaches well here and is badly rocketed because public administrations have this obligation but not the Senate. Article 15 of this legislative decree also gives the obligation to publish all that concerns the advice, the curriculum, the assignments, the compensation and this does not happen for the Senate, despite in the discussion of the budget last year an agenda was approved, the G29 (text 2) which provided for the publication of the compensations and advisors of the Senate. This was therefore not the case on this agenda. We ask the College of Quaestors and the Presidency Council to apply it when provided for in Article 15 of Legislative Decree No 33 of 2013. The G17 agenda is always about vitality. Well, to the colleague who spoke of manfrina mendace and demagogica and has produced many other offences, I would like to reply in a somewhat more noble way saying that it is a total hypocrite because he and so many others who fill their mouths saying that the costs of politics must be reduced, in practice they have helped to rape the Constitution with the false objective of reducing the costs of politics. In this regard, I appeal to the Democratic Party to say that this is the riffraff with which you are raping the Constitution. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Well, as far as the vitalities are concerned, since Mr D'Anna has also spoken, offending his colleague, of Pulcinella without knowledge of arithmetic, I would like to point out that the chapter on the treatment of senators who have ceased their term of office provides for an expenditure of 83 million euros for 2016. This was the same amount planned for the year 2015 so when you go to affect the money perceived by these gentlemen, then it's not okay. With this agenda we ask that not only the list of those who feel the vitality is published on the Senate's website, but also its compensation. With regard to the G39 agenda, however, it tends to point out that the big work and the real things that are done within the Commissions and the Councils are obscured by the citizens, because they are almost never streamed. With this agenda we ask the College of Quaestors and the Presidency Council to equip all the classrooms where the work of the Commissions and the Councils is carried out with an instrument suitable to stream all the meetings and also to strengthen the Senate's web TV. With regard to the last agenda, Mr G41, it must be said that, unfortunately, the practice established in this Senate has much more value than the Rules of Procedure and, as regards the budget and the final accounts of the Senate, the senators have no possibility of affecting in any way the amendments. It is only possible to present agendas, but the agendas adopted last year - I quote a few examples: G46, G29 (text 2) and G 47 (text 2) - have never been implemented. We therefore call for a specific section of the Senate website to be dedicated to the process of implementing the agendas, so that citizens can know outside that what is voted and accepted in this House is not actually being completed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u36	Senator Puglia, who will present the G12 agenda in the course of his speech, is a member. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u37	Mr President, the agenda I am going to discuss concerns the contribution of solidarity to parliamentary vitality. Calm down, don't be frightened; as soon as I mentioned the contribution of solidarity to parliamentary vitality, you immediately became frightened. You're right to be scared, because it's money that we take away from those who have no right. Actually, if we think about it, there has been a reform. Over the years, slowly, people began to talk about the fact that pensions were too high in the past, because workers were not entitled to them. You said: there are so many people who take so much, but they were not entitled to it, because only in recent years have they accumulated so much money and the pension was calculated only for the last years of work. This was the pension system based on remuneration calculation. You attacked him. You have done so, we have nothing to do with it, or at least I was still a student, in fact, of social security and labour law, and I was wondering this: if these people are saying this, perhaps I did not understand then how solidarity and the social system of a state work. Maybe when I start studying better, when I'm more adult, then I'll understand. The years have passed and I think I became an adult; well, you were teasing the Italians once again. You destroyed the social system and replaced it with something else. You have spread the terror: you will no longer be able to take the pension. We have to change. So what did you do? You have replaced the social system of our Constitutional Charter, which in fact - I remind myself - says that it is the State that has to provide for a number of things, including old age, and it is not the individual who has to provide for his own old age. The state had to think about it. But no, you turned it upside down, because then there was no one to fight you; the 5 Star Movement did not exist, we were still young; but today we have grown and we are here, we are fighting you and we ask the citizens to help us fight your system. What created your system? The idea that what had been given to our fathers, that is, the pension system, did not work, so a new pillar had to be created. That is what you called it: the pillar, the second pillar of social security, a new social security system that was to supplement, complement the existing social security system. Who did you entrust him to? Rightly someone could say: of course always to the state. No, you have completely entrusted him to a private system; therefore, you have taken away the state to give to someone else. But the vitalities, not the parliamentary vitality, you keep them well in your pocket. What we ask for with the agenda G12 is simply social justice: do on you what you have done on the poor people. Mr President, at least we would like to see a solidarity contribution of up to EUR 90,000 in the amount of vital allowances, which is 20%, while, for the amounts above EUR 90,000, the contribution is 30%, allocating the share obtained to something more important: the Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u39	Senator Bulgarelli, what do you want to intervene on? BULGARRELLI (M5S). On the order of business, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. BULGARRELLI (M5S). Thank you, Commander! I would just like to make an example of what the rules are for the work to be done in this House because, a short while ago, from what I understood - I am asking you, the chair - you called Senator Martelli to order, because he was speaking while another colleague was speaking, but Senator D'Anna, who launched a dossier against a group of people, was not called back.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u40	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, to understand us, I cannot speak as long as another colleague speaks, but can I do so if I want to throw something into this House? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, Senator D'Anna's behavior has already been detected and noted by the Secretary Senators, so don't worry. BULGARRELLI (M5S). Senator D'Anna has not even been officially recalled to this House while Senator Martelli has. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Comaroli is enrolled to speak, who during her speech will also illustrate the agendas of the day G19, G20, G21, G27, G37 and G47. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u41	Mr President, with the G19 and G20 agendas, we are asking in practice for a further contribution of solidarity to those who receive the life allowance. We are talking about all those former senators who have not paid contributions for an entire parliamentary term (so those who have not completed an entire parliamentary term) or those who, even after only two days, have been entitled to it. Assuming that surely we can not go to affect this system because it is an acquired right, as they have always explained to us, at least - this yes that is possible - we ask for an additional contribution, that is, a sort of equivalence to what is the current state. The other agenda that I would like to highlight is the G21, with which we call for the non duplication of the system of vitality because we know that many people who have held, for example, a mandate as regional advisers, thus sensing a vitality, then maybe become parliamentarians and perceive another. Our proposal is that there is only one vitality to political activity, which is one. On the other hand, the G27 agenda, which we consider to be very important, concerns the fact that, many times when parliamentary activity begins, each and every group makes recruitments in relation to its own management, because it is allocated a budget on the basis of its registered senators; therefore, financial commitments are made. Then it happens that some senators, as it is in their right, change Group, leave, leaving in serious difficulty the old Group, because it has already concluded contracts and financial disbursements to satisfy. We therefore ask that at least 50% of the budget that each individual senator has available should remain with the old Group. On the G37 agenda, however, we call for each Group to have an active part, at least as information. In fact, the majority party has its own Senator, as well as the Forza Italia Group and the M5S Group, and we know that we are aware of much more data than at least my Group can obtain. We therefore call for the efforts of the quaestors senators to carry out meetings on a monthly basis so that we can really get to know the information in depth. (17.20) (Following COMAROLI). For example, we had the Senate's draft internal budget two days ago and we were told that it was necessary to prepare the agenda immediately, but if we really want to try to understand the numbers, one day we do not understand the whole Senate's budget. Mr President, I would also like to point out that there is a mistake in the dossier with regard to the G47 agenda, which is signed by Senator Lucidi, but it is my agenda. Probably in the press, there was an exchange. I had already presented this agenda and the senators. I was given a favourable opinion by the Quaestors. It calls for a greater amount of paper for the Budget Commission, which receives all the documentation from the other Commissions. Sometimes we hear that we have to try to get the photocopies back into the budget and that makes it difficult for us to do our job. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Lezzi is enrolled to speak, who will also present the G11 agenda during her speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u42	Mr President, I will be very brief, because I just have to present an agenda with which we are calling for a commitment by Members to waive the end-of-term cheque. Let us remember that this is 80% of the gross monthly amount of the allowance, multiplied by the number of years of actual term. We have seen this theatrical play in which it was basically said that not everything falls on the costs of politics, that this is pure cheap demagogy. After all, we have heard it from the one who called our 8.5 million voters (now even increased) of the scumbags, so I would even ask, in the face of these statements, that any kind of compensation and reimbursement be completely taken away from them, since for some people these are just small change. Therefore, on behalf of those 4,5 million new poor people, people who are unable to shop, eat and send their children to school, we ask for an act of courage. We expect the Senator - who unfortunately still has to be described as this - to start paying his surpluses (mostly everything) to the micro-credit fund. We invite the Democratic Party, with which D'Anna is in alliance (because the Democratic Party is based on the party of D'Anna), to do the same, beginning to accept at least this agenda. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u43	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u44	Senator Paglini is registered to speak, and during her speech she will also present the G6 agenda. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u45	Mr President, on this agenda, we ask that the senators and Members of Parliament be kept on the ground in general. What does it mean to put your feet on the ground? It means putting oneself in the condition of any citizen, who knows how much it costs to use a phone, a liter of milk or a kilo of bread and who, perhaps with a salary of 1,200 euros per month, must put together the dinner with lunch and make the accounts, for himself and for the family. Mr President, since 2011, senators have received a flat-rate reimbursement of the general expenses of EUR 19,800 per year for telephone and ancillary travel expenses. As a political group, we decided from day one to stand on the ground. At this moment, as senators, every month we see credit on our personal accounts a bank transfer divided into several items. The lump sum is a considerable figure, as I said, of 1.650 euros every thirty days. Considering that our personal transfer journeys on national territory through air, rail, maritime and motorway travels we benefit from personal cards and therefore these are not covered by this figure, we ask if it is not appropriate to reduce the figure by 50%, in order to avoid weighing on the coffers of the State, that is, on the shoulders of our Italian citizens, who are already "gas barreled." I come to think of unemployed people, pensioners with minimum and social pensions, the millions of poor without a rag of income guarantee. At the same time, however, let us rot for a year and seven months in the Commission I work our proposal for citizenship income. The 5 Star Movement, from day one, has cut its salary by 50%; we have donated it to a guarantee fund that helps people working in small and medium-sized enterprises. Each microcredit provided produces 2.5 new jobs, more, and this for all citizens, not only for those of a party or a political party, but for all citizens: it is fair and for everyone. Moreover, what we do not spend on the figure allocated to general expenses - in this case the EUR 1,650 - we report it through certified expenses. Do you remember how much you made fun of us for our receipts? Well, that's what the receipts are for: to give back some of these 1.650 euros too. In addition to 50% of our salaries, therefore, we also return what we do not use from this item. In view of the respect for the ordinary people who have sent us to Parliament to make a real revolution of thought and ethics, we ask this House to make a commitment to reduce even the lump sums by 50%. If I may say so, Mr President, I would also add that it is not necessary to adopt laws in order to put in place certain choices, since the 5 Star Movement in three years has returned, between electoral refunds never collected and made of our salaries, over 58 million euros, for all our citizens. The same has been done by our regional advisers, our Members of the European Parliament and our local councillors. So you, too, can from tomorrow adopt our rules and give tangible proof that you have understood that this country is in need of concrete evidence, beyond the announcements, tweets and demagogy. As an alternative, Mr President, I recommend changing the entries for lump sums. Instead of calling and traveling (we all know how much a phone subscription per month) you put type voices: cadeau "for lobbyists", "flowers for kind ladies" or "collective" of the presidential mortgage of the "Air Force One" A340-500 wanted by Renzi, that will cost us 150 million euros and that we will charge our citizens. So, in conclusion, especially you of the majority today try to pull up your head. We invite you to vote according to your conscience. Whatever will be your choice, even if today the troops of the journalists seem to have been stabbed, know that it will be made known on time to the citizens; to all the citizens, even those who voted for you and who expect from you a glimpse of consistency between what you tell on television and what you do in these classrooms. Mr President, thanking you for leaving me this additional time, we invite everyone and, above all, the majority to show consistency and benevolence towards our citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u46	Senator Buccarella is enrolled to speak, who will also explain the agendas of the G7, G18 and G29 during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u47	Mr President, to continue this illustration, which we do not doubt will be commented on here or elsewhere as a list of the usual demagogic and populist proposals of the 5 Star Movement - I say it provocatively - I will try to reason with you briefly on some agendas. Everyone who will have the goodness to verify the content will be able to assess whether they are demagogic or populist proposals or whether, on the contrary, apart from these derogatory definitions, they are not reasonable measures that would be appreciated by our compatriots. The G7 agenda provides that the item of reimbursement expenses for the exercise of the mandate - which, as we know, is paid monthly to us senators for the total amount of 4,180 euros, divided into 2.090 and 2.090, only half of which can be reported quarterly to the Senate - is the subject of full reporting. The full amount should be documented and, if possible, published on the personal page of the Senate website in relation to the reference senator. This measure would make it possible for the term "refund" to be given a concrete meaning: reimbursement is what I get once I give proof that I have anticipated sums (this definition recalls the semantic trap of party electoral refunds, but this is another reasoning). We therefore propose that the total amount of the 4,180 euros per month be the subject of subsequent reporting and reimbursement. We are fully aware that funds are needed for political activities on territories or for social and cultural purposes, as indicated in our Rules of Procedure. We do not say that everything must be done for free, but this measure of reasonableness and transparency would certainly be appreciated by those who then call us to vote in the next elections. The G18 agenda deals with another subject. My colleagues have already put forward some proposals on the abolition of vitality, and I will deal here with a specific issue of vitality which is the subject of a major debate and a resolution of the Senate Presidency Council, which then consists of a mouse born from the mountain in that great debate about whether it was right or not that senators or former senators, already drawn from criminal sentences, were worthy of perceiving the vitality. We know that the Senate Presidency Council on 7 May 2015 gave birth to this little mouse which, as we remember, does not already provide for the repeal for those who are drawn from final sentences of conviction, but only the suspension of the benefit, which comes to fall when the penalty is granted, if this happens, except in cases of conditional suspension of the sentence. After three years you can ask for rehabilitation in the criminal field and, therefore, the Senate, which will in fact put aside these sums, which it is doing for eight senators directly affected by this measure, once obtained the rehabilitation of these senators, will have to return these sums. So the educational effect, if we want to do so, or punitive of depriving the representative of the people who fails to comply with the minimum obligations of dignity and decorum associated with such a high institutional charge, remains a waste of paper. Official abuse was excluded as the cause of the suspension of the vitality and those non-poisonous offences which provide for penalties of up to six years' duration are also excluded. It is, therefore, a favorable treatment compared to what the so-called Severino law provides for in the matter of decadence. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I have finished my time and I shall begin to conclude. I have presented the G18 agenda, while I will not be able to explain in detail the G29 agenda, the content of which is easily accessible to anyone and whose purpose is to provide for the remuneration of parliamentary collaborators - another figure we are very well known and appreciated - directly charged to the Senate and not already provided through the competences paid to senators. This would also serve to ensure a regime of transparency for the salaries of our personal employees and - perhaps - also to avoid the play of some colleagues who might be tempted, when they change their parliamentary group, to have their collaborator hired by the new parliamentary group, thus finding an apparently legal means to keep in their pocket the sums that should be paid instead to the valuable collaborator. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u48	It is registered to speak Senator Blundo, who during his speech will also illustrate the agendas of the day G8, G22 and G40. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the severe socio-economic crisis, the G22 agenda invites you to reflect on the expenditure associated with the functioning of the Senate President's Cabinet. Two years ago, with the presentation of one of our approved agendas, we raised the issue of the costs associated with the employees of the Senate, which are higher than those of the other bodies of the State. In the meantime, the scale of the crisis has not decreased and the number of families in poverty has increased, as we have said in all fora and at all times. I therefore invite you to reflect on the fact that the sum of about 1.5 million euros earmarked for the functioning of the Senate President's Cabinet may seem extravagant and injustifiable in the eyes of citizens. We therefore call on the Presidency and the College of Quaestors, each in accordance with their respective competences, to take all the necessary steps to make a structural and systematic cut of at least 50% of these expenditures, as President Grasso himself has repeatedly promised to Italy as a whole. On the G40 agenda, we call for the application of a constitutional principle of fundamental importance, such as that of the publicity of parliamentary work. Some parliamentary work is quickly made public: in fact, the reports of Parliament's meetings and of all the work of the Commissions are published quickly. To date, however, no provision has been made for the publicity, on the Senate website, of the activities of the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors. It seems to me that this is not up to date and I therefore call on Members to consider the agenda in question, which is intended to ensure respect for citizens. We make the full reports of the meetings of the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors accessible to the citizens; let us make them public and give a serious example of transparency and honesty, also in this respect. We create a database of the deliberations of the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, available for free consultation on the website of the Senate of the Republic. Let us show in this that we want to apply the Constitution and not turn it upside down for other purposes. And we come to the ends of others. We actually have in the Senate budget expenses that go far beyond those that are sold as savings, if you turn the Senate into "Room of Regions II." The G8 agenda wants to commit the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors to remove from the items of expenditure eligible for reimbursement of expenditure for the exercise of their mandate (which, as we all know, concern the management of an office, the rental of premises, utilities, the purchase or rental of instrumental goods) those intended for the contributions that the parliamentarians of the parties (not those of the 5 Star Movement) pay to their party of belonging, thus in fact forming a hidden form of public financing to the party. The 5 Star Movement, in respect of citizenship, which has already expressed itself by referendum, has always stood up against the public funding of the parties. Our choice, ladies and gentlemen, has enabled us to make a real policy among the citizens, with the citizens and for the citizens, and has also shown that this policy, in the last local elections, is successful. Please do not insist on doing as you have already done, hurrying to approve the Boccadutri in haste, with which you have divided 45.2 million euros. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u50	It is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi, who during his speech will also illustrate the agendas of the day G5, G36 and G42. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u51	Mr President, the G5 agenda - I am sorry that Senator D'Anna is not here, because it would have been possible to speak if my speech were a lie and a demagogic one, but patience - comes from the fact that it is increasingly common to the public the perception that parliamentarians perceive inadequate, clearly disproportionate emoluments upwards. There are some Members of Parliament who hold positions within the Commissions, such as the offices of President, Vice President and Secretary. With this agenda, we are asking that the allowances reserved for those in positions within the Commission be abolished, because we believe that, with a minimum effort, we could start to give citizens the idea that parliamentarians are taking action to generate virtuous behaviors, which take into account the widespread perception of public opinion. I would therefore ask Members to take the G5 agenda seriously, which basically calls for these office allowances to be waived. I know that some senators are devoting these allowances to cultural associations for virtuous purposes, but it should always be asked whether in the end this aid can never be conformed to complacency in exchange for electoral approval. The G36 agenda, on the other hand, starts with a consideration. Currently, the Senate Administration offers university and postgraduate students the possibility to make periods of training courses completely free of charge, concluded on the basis of special agreements, which guarantee insurance coverage but do not guarantee that these trainees are paid an allowance. There is a law of 2012, which has made substantial changes to the Institute of Traineeships through the introduction of national guidelines. These national guidelines, published in January 2013, aim to facilitate compliance for promoters and move in the context of a document produced by the European Commission in 2012 entitled "A framework for the quality of traineeships". Now, among the minimum standards laid down in these guidelines there is also the recognition of a minimum allowance for the activities carried out by trainees. On this agenda, we call on the Presidency and the College of Quaestors to consider whether, after the publication of appropriate notices, training and guidance programmes should be launched for the most deserving new graduates, subject to these national guidelines and without prejudice to the recognition of a fair allowance for these trainees. I come to explain the G42 agenda, which concerns a very sensitive issue in this House. During this parliamentary term, during the examination of very important measures, reference has often been made to previous Members. These precedents are collected in an archive, which is updated with great expertise, systematized and organized in a dossier. We believe that these parliamentary precedents should not be relegated to the perimeter of a dossier covered by some form of secrecy, but should be made public or at least available, not only to the citizens but above all to the parliamentary forces that are debating the measures in this House. Among other things, a legal doctrine has manifested in recent times a prevailing tendency to reconsider this problem, saying precisely that secrecy is not appropriate and conflicts with the need to make the activity of this institution traceable and transparent. Therefore, we ask, for the benefit of the parliamentary community and also to put all political forces on the same level (even the young ones) and to comply with the observations of a recent legal doctrine, to arrange for the publication on the institutional website of the Senate or, at least, on the Internet portal of the senators, of this dossier where these precious precedents are collected. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Lucidi is enrolled to speak, who will also present the agendas of the G32, G34 and G44 during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u52	Mr President, the G32 agenda is for the office of Secretary General of the Senate of the Republic. We have tabled this agenda because there are no other posts on the Italian institutional scene other than this, which are permanent. In fact, the Constitution provides that the term of office of the President of the Republic is seven years and that of the nine-year constitutional judge. Instead, the office of Secretary General is currently the only essentially vital apical public position. In fact, it can only be interrupted by spontaneous resignation, by quiet placement or by a revocation approved by the Presidency Council. That is why we are calling for an amendment to be introduced which provides for a five-year mandate limit for the Secretary-General, also establishing that the bestowal of the Secretary-General cannot be repeated. I am going to explain the agenda G34, which deals with a similar subject, because we are talking about the temporary nature of the posts within the Senate structure; here too we are talking about repeated positions over time that do not have a consideration in other situations. In fact, the Services of the Senate of the Republic, especially in recent times, have been characterized by a substantial immobilism, which has seen the same subjects remain at the head of the same Service for a period of time too long and incompatible with the premises that I have just made. For this reason, the agenda also calls for the introduction of a time limit for these functions, for example for the Chief Service Advisers, with an indicative duration of not less than three years and not more than five years. This is also by analogy with other similar positions in other institutions of the State. The G44 agenda is on a very practical issue, namely the fact that senators are currently receiving very detailed parliamentary work on timetables in electronic format, but it is a format that does not allow the immediate use and insertion in computer calendars, such as our mobile phones. What we are asking for with this agenda is that the calendar of all the Senate's work, which is currently available in electronic format, be made available in an open and accessible format, so that it can dialogue with normal smartphones or tablets, so that it can immediately be placed on the calendar and immediately available for everyone. This is simply a rule of common sense that would prevent so many of us from wasting time in operations already carried out by others. We therefore call at least for this agenda to be adopted, because it is extremely sensible and there is not even a political aspect behind it. [[Applause from Senator Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u53	Senator Serra is enrolled to speak, who during her speech will also illustrate the agendas of the day G49 and G50. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u54	Mr President, the G49 and G50 agendas commit the College of Quaestors to a 50% reduction in some expenditure. In particular, on the G49 agenda we have expenditure of EUR 1,294,000 in the heading of grants and subsidies, and we simply ask that this expenditure be reduced by 50%. The G50 agenda always covers an absolutely unjustified area: we refer to the allocation of chapters for institutional, cultural and social initiatives for a sum of €560,000, and a further chapter for contributions to cultural foundations to other subjects and third parties (here we do not understand who you refer to) with an additional €195,000. With these agendas we simply ask that these expenditures be reduced by 50%; we do not ask for them to be eliminated, but reduced. It wouldn't be a small, but a great start. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u55	Senator Mangili is registered to speak, and during her speech she will also present the agenda for the G26 meeting. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u56	Mr President, the G26 agenda commits the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors to reduce the planned contribution to parliamentary groups by 20% compared to the current forecasts. There is no point in imposing so many sacrifices on citizens when politics, which should set a good example, exempts itself from making them. Sobriety has become a rare and precious commodity. Let's make it our real feature. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u57	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. [[Senator Bertorotta points out that she wants to intervene]] Senator Bertorotta, when you were called, you were absent, so you are meant to be reunited to intervene. Senator Taverna is registered to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. Senator Scibona is a member of the Committee, who will also present the G9 agenda during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u58	Mr President, the G9 agenda is about missions. We have talked a lot about the costs of politics and these classrooms, and surely the missions are part of this budget that is being used for the institutions. Now I do not want to make it easy to criticize even if, of course, some missions could be avoided, because the missions, in most cases, are fundamental since they lead the elected to interact in different situations to make them more educated than what they have to dislike. So nobody says that the missions should be cancelled, in fact, they are often fundamental to understanding the subject of the debate. What we would like to pay attention to is the cost of the mission itself. Again, no one says that senators have to go to dive beds or places that are not appropriate, but there is a middle way, of course. So the fact that we are asking for a ceiling and a timely report of expenditure seems to me to be the minimum trade union because, if the expenditure has not been excessive, I do not see what the problem is in telling the citizens that they have gone to eat. He will also eat the senator on a mission like any other person; the difference is how he eats normally and how he eats on a mission. I would say that a normal meal, even if then often and willingly on mission you do not eat normal meals (and this is what those who go on mission really know), should all the more be contemplated. A sandwich in the grill or somewhere else has a different cost and in that case does no harm to the fact that people know how much a Member spent on a mission. I therefore do not see why the request for transparency on the institutional site of each person's mission expenses should not be accepted. It's okay that they're paid back on the list, but with a roof, because then we know that the human being sometimes exaggerates and just making the list foot could be very pejorative.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u59	Senator Ciampolillo, who will also present the agenda during his speech, will speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u60	Mr President, by typing on the Google search engine "Senato" supplier register, the following announcement is already previewed: The user is informed that the procedures for registration to the supplier register are currently being revised. Well, it seems to me - I do not think I am wrong - that this notice was published at least three years ago. This means that today on the Senate website it is not possible to consult publicly the supplier's register. Then, in the name of transparency, with the agenda G43 we ask to be active so that on the official website of the Senate the publication of the register of suppliers of the Administration is immediately implemented.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u61	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u62	Mr President, I have listened to the usual words of effect, captivated and populist, and some things said are very true, while others really are very superficial. First of all, among those who spoke from the 5 Star Movement Group, I would like to congratulate Senator Moronese, of whom I share everything she has said.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u63	Senator Fucksia, there is an agenda to be respected: either you intervene on it or otherwise you cannot speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u64	Would you like to explain some of the agendas? Would you like to speak on the budget? FUCKSIA (Mixed). I want to intervene on the budget. Shall I come in later? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Intervene immediately if you intend to do so. FUCKSIA (Mixed). Yes, but I confirm that some things said - for example - by Senator Moronese seem very relevant to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So let's do one thing: take the word off Senator Fucksia and don't talk about it anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Senator Fucksia, the discussion on the Senate budget cannot be an opportunity to launch attacks on colleagues. So if you're talking about the Senate budget, I'm happy to hear it, otherwise I can't give you the floor. FUCKSIA (Mixed). Excuse me, Mr President, but I would like to express my thoughts, if you give me the opportunity, because they are basic concepts. We have listened today to a number of agendas which I fully agree with. In fact, I would like to invite, precisely for a speech of substance and not of form, to respect certain indications also with regard to the Groups, to which no extra money comes by divine grace. It is always citizens' money and, therefore, it is public funding that is part of it. However I share it, for the commutative property, the sum remains that. Then I would like to invite those who rightly say that budgetary transparency must be achieved in everything. For example, we have a budget rule which provides that the staff of each Member should not be related until the third grade. But it goes without saying that if that money comes back into the family, it doesn't change much. It is an aspect of form, but not of substance. Then, at that point, if one does not want to be hypocritical, he makes a change and it is established that everyone can hire the parliamentary collaborator he wants. So, you take the boyfriend who doesn't appear to be resident in the same house, because maybe you live with more uxorio, but with whom you share the same home. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is a common practice for many Members, including those who have highlighted the importance of transparency and fairness. And I say this for a transparency speech. It is also true that there are other categories. If I make a platform, a foundation or an association and ask the citizens for money, it is a party financing, even if it is not imposed, but free. As for the 86 million vitals, surely in this situation they create a certain discomfort to everyone's belly. I too have entered the Senate with the objectives of rationalizing expenditure, reducing public expenditure and unnecessary political spending, but in fact - as Senator D'Anna said - compared to the 7-9 million non-contributory but remuneration pensions that are around, they are little. Something certainly can be done, but we realize that it is no longer an intervention in that sense, having an effect not incisive, but media. The 5 Star Movement had proposed an income meter, but no more talk about it. Yet, it would be very useful to see how much you had before entering here; if, for example, you had many debts and then were paid back, maybe even with good earnings. The income meter has not been predicted and instead it could be useful, because there are those who maybe to a free profession do not give up having a family and, therefore, we find many Italian potentialities that do not want to blow up a profession to carry out an assignment that brings an economic loss. Some people, on the other hand, have nothing to risk, but they only gain. Then let's look at this too. Likewise, let us be careful - for example - when it is said to be returned. Let's see what you return. One thing is to say that you earn 3,000 euros a month, another thing is to see someone who first with 8,000 euros a year lived there with the family and then, with the various reports, it is not enough for him to eat anymore. There's something hypocritical about that. [[Senator Donno's comments.]] All I'm saying is that if we were to be really correct, we could move to a very aggressive measure: those who enter politics must neither earn nor lose; if it is not a job, but a mandate, we should expect compensation for the expenses for the loss of income recorded. You could think of something like that. And then there is to say that it makes a difference if you live in Rome, Trento or Sicily, because the expenses are different. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Some diaries, perhaps, are very little understood. So, the speech is very complex. And then we add - for example - the very high communication costs. We're talking about the Senate, but we know that the 5 Star Movement in the House has increased them by 40%. WOMAN (M5S). Again? FUCKSIA (Mixed). Some have told us... president. Conclude, Senator. FUCKSIA (Mixed). It stifled the momentum I had. I'm scolding myself. I mean, you don't have to be demagogic and at the same time hypocrite, because at that point the citizens keep themselves good by teasing them and giving them a drink something that isn't. Then I think of some senators. In all workplaces a nearby nursery should be provided, in order to reconcile work with motherhood. In the Senate, in fact, some rooms are occupied by them. One could, then, expect - for example - to charge a rent to those who benefit from it. If you want to be demagogic or make fleas, there are 1,000 things to examine. The approach, then, must be completely revised. If you do not have to earn or lose in politics, you have to review everything. Let us remember that the bravest act has done so - albeit with all the criticism - when Monti changed the system from remuneration to contribution, and has cut every month 2,000 euros net. Well, if you want to do something and if the money we take is too much, you make a maneuver like that. And the first maneuver to make would be to resoundingly cut the funds to the Groups, because while individual Members are traceable with a tax code, in the Groups everything goes and more and you don't know where it goes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator, you've crossed every line. FUCKSIA (Mixed). If this Senate were a company, it would have failed. Where is there in a company a Senate Studies Office that makes the files and summarises the laws, a legislative parliamentary group that takes them up again and the individual collaborators again, and so on? There's a redundancy, an incredible overabundance, and that's not enough. Even now 3,000 yes committees and 3,000 no committees are funded. There are more and more waste, but the setting must be completely different, because if one sees the fleas, in the others, then he can also find them in the nearby places. [[Ironic applause from Senator Donno. Senator Fucksia's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u65	It is registered to speak Senator Bonfrisco, who during his speech will also illustrate the agendas of the day G2 and G28. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u66	Mr President, I will try to be as brief as possible. Today's debate usually takes place on the basis of analyses and numbers, but they are not really unrelated to political considerations or to some of the most important economic considerations. This is the case - for example - of the great debate that took place over the last two hours on the subject of vitality; a thorny and difficult subject, which fits - I would like to remind myself first and then everyone - in a much broader context that speaks to us of the country that we were and that we are no longer. I don't want to go too far, but that model of remuneration pension calculation belonged to our country when it grew, it had annual growth rates that today we don't even remotely dream of and a possible lever in the public debt that was paid through its growth; that country, moreover, had great social and economic aggregations; it had workers and workers who, through work, reached the pension goal with that calculation model. We know that we should have predicted that that calculation model could no longer be governed by constant growth and should somehow contain it. It has been done but with considerable delay, starting with the first major reforms on pensions and the labour market in the 1990s, and that is what we continue to do today, when we try to cut unproductive public spending to safeguard uncompressable public spending. It seems clear to me that, at this historic stage, pensions are now considered and recognised by all of us as absolutely untouchable. All we need is for us to continue, on the basis of an accounting rigour that we have seen where it has led us, to call into question today an issue which, at the present stage, would result in a dramatic loss of purchasing power and capacity for our citizens. Does this have anything to do with vitals? They're different things, but they're talking about the same country. I would like to mention the expenditure that our state budget bears to pay pensions today to those who have less than twenty years of pay (average from fifteen to nineteen), which were an important target for civil servants. Well, just to pay so-called baby pensions - sometimes they are babys and sometimes they are older children - you have a weight of 9.5 billion on the state budget. Now, do we consider a contribution of solidarity from these people possible? I think so. They are not to question that country that was and that is no longer there. I know, however, that today those who govern have to deal with this country, with the current labour market and especially with this economy. And today we respond to the things we do in our time. I think that a contribution of solidarity from those people can be received, perhaps to support some initiatives, some specific interventions. I therefore come to the illustration of a modest agenda which I intended to present - and I shall finish quickly, Mr President, on the G2 agenda - to remind all of us of the contributions of solidarity, or - in the same way and with the same value - the savings that the Senate has been able to make in recent times. Then everyone analyzes what he wants, based on the numbers and their historical series, but this Senate was able to save 152 million euros. I therefore propose, although I know that an agenda has the value it has and that it is certainly not challenging for any legislative process - it is a commitment that I propose to the Senate - to devote these savings to one of the many different emergencies. I propose that we be able to allocate the savings of the Senate, indicating it to the government, to the implementation of the resources for the police and security forces, so that at least we can contribute to the solution of this problem. On the other hand, to return to the subject of many other agendas, in particular to the parliamentary collaborators, I would like to propose a agenda which was already adopted last year with the intention of following up on it. I think that when we analyse the budgets of any organization, as well as any institution, we must not forget that we are talking about working people and the dignity of their work. I therefore express the view that the agenda concerns the legal status of parliamentary collaborators. I believe that, rather than receipts or anything else, because it is about the dignity of those people, the time has come - as the European Parliament has done - that those people, regardless of any other economic implication, should be granted legal and working status. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Colucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u68	Mr President, I would like to refer to the report by Senators Quaestors on the Senate's internal budget. First of all, I would like to thank the College of Quaestors and the Administration of Palazzo Madama for their work. The figures just presented - first of all the lower financial burden of the Senate on the state budget of 152 million euros from the beginning of the legislature to today - show us that the direction taken towards a reduction of expenditure has produced significant results. As former Quaestor of the Chamber of Deputies, I acknowledge the goodness of the actions undertaken in recent years by the College of Quaestors and by all the Administration's Services. I would like to stress a fact that struck me most of all: the relationship between the actual expenditure of the Senate and the expenditure of the State has fallen, over ten years, from 2006 to 2015, from 0.083 percent to 0.060 percent, synthesizing well the positive trend of decreasing expenditure in a positive perspective though. You spend less, but above all you spend better. It is the concept of the quality of spending well expressed by the De Poli commissioner. For the sixth consecutive year, Palazzo Madama's spending continues discreetly its decreasing trend. On the 2015 financial statements, the Senate's expenditure fell for the first time under 500 million euros and stood at 495 million euros. And not only that: the data set out clearly highlights the efforts made to reduce expenditure. The financial burden of the Senate on public finance has been lightened by 152 million since the beginning of the legislature: this is the most important numerical figure, which well summarises the results of the actions undertaken by the College of Quaestors and the whole Administration with a view to rationalising resources. I would like to remind you that in addition to the lower budget (resources requested from the State) of EUR 21.6 million per year (EUR 86.4 million over four years), there are additional savings of EUR 65.5 million. These are additional resources that the Senate saves and returns to the treasury's coffers. Among other things, in my brief speech, I would like to stress that for the commitments on the G1 agenda, approved last year when approving the 2015 forecast budget and the 2015-2017 multiannual budget, the process has been initiated with regard to the harmonisation of the disciplines concerning staff and parliamentarians (single status of parliamentarians, single role and single status of employees) and the integration of services. I remember the progress made in the process that will lead to the organisational model of the Parliamentary Polo with the aim of achieving synergies and savings, also aiming at improving the quality of the services offered. As part of the process of functional integration between the Chamber and the Senate, the political management bodies of the two Chambers pressed on the accelerator by formulating common guidelines aimed at defining forms of collaboration, unification and integration between the activities of the two Administrations. And now we have to complete this process with the aim of achieving greater savings. As far as tenders are concerned, the first important steps in terms of integrating services in homogeneous sectors of the two branches of Parliament have been taken. Just think of the prepress competition conducted together by the House and Senate Administrations. Now, however, it is necessary to go further, going towards the single purchasing power station. I agree with Senator De Poli on the integration assessments with the other branch of Parliament. The final mission - which we must never lose sight of - is to modernise the country's institutions. The steps taken so far are in this direction. This is a process that has started and will cover more areas than the two administrations and this will lead to synergies and, therefore, to significant expenditure savings. Finally, I would like to point out that it is important for the process of unification and integration to be accompanied by a process of harmonization of the accounting rules of the two budgets and by the drawing up of an integrated budget, aimed at highlighting the savings resulting precisely from the reorganization of the structures and the rationalization that will result from them. Finally, it is worth remembering that in an international context the Italian Parliament stands out for the transparency that, not always, finds correspondence in the parliaments of other countries. Thus the establishment of Palazzo Madama, once again, stands out positively in the institutional landscape for a fact of transparency, as well as for the decreasing trend of expenses considering that, while in general the expenditures of the government of the State rise by 11 percent, the Senate in countertrend saves. Mr President, I would like to thank the Presidency, the President of the Senate, the Secretary-General and all his collaborators. The People's Area Parliamentary Group welcomes the Senate's internal budget and, on behalf of the Group, I call on the Quaestors to continue along this line and with the policy implemented. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u69	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u70	Mr President, I would like to thank the Bureau and the Quaestors for the budget they have presented to us. They have worked with constancy, ability and seriousness, trying to contract the expenses to the maximum. Of course, in an organization, we see whether the expenditure was justified by productivity, which must be judged not by us, but by Italian citizens. However, it seems right to make a self-critical consideration: if we had rationalised our work better and wasted less time, we would probably have spent less on light and energy, because we would have worked more fruitfully in less time, without perhaps spending whole nights. If we had revised the parliamentary regulations, we would have gotten more rationalization. However, I asked for the word on behalf of Forza Italia - I hope to interpret the sentiments of all the senators - to make a very heartfelt thanks to the 669 people who work for us. I would like to emphasise something that seems important to me. In a few months - we do not know the date yet, but it is a few months - the country will decide, through the referendum, on the constitutional reform that has been approved by the Senate and the House of Deputies in three readings. This reform - on which we have different opinions within us and, according to the polls, for what they are worth, the country is divided in half - if approved, will result in a strong downsizing of the Senate. I think, then, that the 669 people who work for us, and do so with great seriousness and punctuality, also live the personal drama of not knowing what their future will be and how they will carry out their work. I therefore believe that it is right to thank these 669 people who, even in difficult psychological situations, have tried to help us in our work. And if we've made mistakes, it's not because of them. [[Applause from Senator Sciascia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u71	She is registered to speak Senator Saggese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the accounting documents before us are fundamental to the functioning of the Senate of the Republic and - as the rapporteur, Senator Questore De Poli, who preceded me - highlight the positive results we have achieved in recent years and those that will also be achieved in the next few years in terms of saving expenditure. They show that this year, too, the Senate keeps its commitment, which has been undertaken for some time now, to contribute positively to the reduction of public expenditure. This is a commitment which, together with the other constitutional bodies, we have taken seriously and rigorously and which requires a contribution from everyone, but - above all and in the first place - on our part, that we are called to manage public affairs. The two documents before us also illustrate the second important objective that the Senate is pursuing: the reduction of costs, which is not only a linear cut, but also guarantees an increase in organizational efficiency and, therefore, a progressive process of reorganization of both staff and services; a process of reorganization that has allowed, at the same time, to guarantee this branch of Parliament the performance of democratic functions with precision and deepening, thanks also to the dedication that the staff put into its work. I refer only to some data, as has already been done. In the period between 2005 and 2016, the Senate spending ratio of total government expenditure increased from 0.087 percent in 2005 to 0.066 percent in 2016. (18.27) (Saggese followed). In the period between 2013 and 2016 (i.e. essentially since the beginning of the current legislature) there has been a saving of expenditure for the operation of the Senate of about 152 million euros, of which 86 for less endowment and 66 for the effect of sums returned. In 2015 alone, the savings achieved amounted to €5.8 million. The ceiling on employee pay will then lead to additional savings of around €36 million. A further EUR 31 million of savings comes from the containment - even that has been - of parliamentary allowances and ancillary powers. Turning to the merits of the documents, I shall confine myself to highlighting only a few data which seemed to me to be more significant. Senator Questore has already carried out a fairly detailed report on both the activity related to the financial year 2015 and the logic and the programmatic approach that we have for 2016 and for the next two years, because - I remember - the budget is forecast and programmatic. The financial statements for the year 2015 saw a rate of decrease of expenditure of 1.5% compared to the figure for 2014, for which it has gone from 501.6 million euros of the year 2014 to approximately 495.8 million in 2015. And if the horizon widens from the beginning of the legislature, the actual expenditure of the Senate has been reduced by 4.83%. Moreover, in the year 2015 the Senate confirms the return to the State, on the basis of a decree-law that we converted into law in 2014, the total amount of the savings made during the financial years; in short, resources that can be used for the fiscal policies of the State have been released. Only in 2015, the amount of savings returned to the treasury amounted to more than EUR 16.9 million. Reference was then made to the solidarity contribution, which will also be paid to the pensions of former senators and former employees, amounting to about EUR 7 million for 2015, which will be returned to the state's coffers. I would also like to point out that, in recent years, there has been a steady decline in the entries relating to compensation for the senators in office, as well as in the amounts paid to the senators who have ceased their term of office. Drastic reductions are recorded, in 2015, on the cost side for the treatment of employees, that in absolute terms it goes from 119,3 million euros in 2014 to 102,4 million euros in 2015 (-14,13 in percentage terms). The draft budget for 2016 follows the same philosophy of cost reduction as mentioned in the previous passages, albeit to a small and prudent extent, due to the ongoing institutional reform and the referendum scheduled for autumn. Compared to the forecast 2015 budget, the 2016 budget shows a reduction in total expenditure of around 1%. A substantial contribution to the reduction of operating expenditure comes from the item relating to expenditure on employees, which is expected to decrease by about 2.2 million euros, amounting to 99,88 million euros. Capital expenditure is expected to increase slightly compared to forecast in 2015. As far as revenue is concerned, the only relevant figure relates to the differential for the initial cash fund, which falls from EUR 13,155 million in 2015 to EUR 12,355 million in the current year. On the whole, therefore, the budget does not differ significantly from that of the previous year, thus continuing in the wake of previous years and which will see substantial savings of expenditure achieved under the scheme. Before concluding, I would like to say a few words about the future. Having noted the results achieved over the last few years, I believe that it is our duty to continue the efforts to rationalise and make the Senate more efficient. I believe that this is the right contribution that the political class must make to the community. And it must be an effort to do without the outcome of the process of constitutional reform. In this respect, I hope that two fundamental steps will be taken in the coming year: the completion of the path relating to the unique role of Parliament's employees and the need to take substantial action on the unification of the services which have still duplicated between the two chambers. So, there is still work to be done from here to next year and it is necessary to intervene in this direction, in order to revise and further improve the expenditure of the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u73	The joint debate is closed. I call on Senator Commissioner Malan to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u74	Madam President, on behalf of the College of Quaestors, I would like to thank all those who have spoken for their contribution to the debate and for the indications they have given. I am referring in particular to the last speeches and, in particular, that of Senator Saggese, who gave specific indications and expressed hopes that they would be taken into account, although not translated into the form of an agenda. But that is precisely what the debate is for, and that is to say, to have some positive ideas. I turn to the opinions on the agenda, trying to be quick, for the respect of the times and for having extended very long last year, but trying to be, at the same time, quite exhaustive on the topics. The G2 agenda, presented by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, calls for the finalization of the savings given to the state budget by the Senate budget for the recruitment of personnel for police and public security bodies. The intent is certainly noble, but we certainly cannot establish such a destination here because - as Senator Bonfrisco knows well - an expense can only be established through a legal provision. There are many opportunities to point this out. I therefore call on you to withdraw the G2 agenda, and to understand its noble aims. The opinion was opposed to the agenda. The reductions in the items in question have already been largely made. In the last ten years, the parliamentary allowance has been reduced by 31% in real terms. The diary has been reduced by about 40%, also taking into account inflation. The opinion is therefore against. It is often said to start setting an example. But in this case, we've been doing this for a long time. As far as expenditure is concerned, we are at a lower level than the parliaments of the major European countries. On the G4 agenda, the opinion was in favour of Senator Comaroli and other senators. It undertakes to study measures which standardise and harmonise the overall economic treatment of senators in other major European countries. The G5 agenda, by Senator Lucidi and other senators, calls for the reduction of the office allowance. They had already been reduced by 10% in the last parliamentary term, they have been reduced by an additional 25% at the beginning of the current one and have never been adapted to the moderate increase in the cost of living. Therefore, the opinion is against it. The opinion was also opposed to the G6 agenda for the same reasons. Here too we are in the context of a general reduction. The opinion was opposed to the G7 agenda by Senator Lucidi and other senators. I would remind you that half the reimbursement for the exercise of the mandate has also been introduced here. The other half, by analogy with what is happening in the other European Parliaments, is normal for a number of reasons: from confidentiality to the difficult reporting of certain types of expenditure. On the G8 agenda, the opinion was opposed by Senator Lucidi and other senators. The typical activity of the parliamentarians takes place through the political parties, which must have structures in order to function. Political parties are a body provided for in the Constitution. The MP is of course free to work outside the party and has no mandate, but it is normal for his activity to take place through the party, the movement or, in any case, the political subjects, as usually referred to in the laws. It is therefore normal for the Member to want to use and strengthen the structures proposed by the parties. The G9 agenda of Senator Lucidi and other senators was adopted as a recommendation. There are already rules on this today. Most missions are done on reporting. On the contrary, even for a series of missions, expenses are usually paid directly by the Senate, without the money even passing through the senator. Then there are some where there is another type of reporting, being single missions, and doing otherwise would be complicated and costly for the Administration. We accept the agenda as a recommendation, in the direction of rationalising these refunds, which is already being done. I am in favour of the G10 agenda, signed by Senator Naccarato. I am against the G11 agenda. This is the request to abolish the end-of-term allowance, consisting of payments made to the senators for this purpose, so that this agenda cannot be accepted because we would face appeals that would certainly be won by the applicants, with a burden on the Senate. The G12 agenda opens a series of agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u75	Senator Malan, if you could follow the file order, it would be more convenient for us. You have just voted against the G11 agenda. Then the agenda follows G13.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u76	MALAN, Senator Commissioner. The G13 agenda begins with a series of agendas, which I would like to list now, which concerns the issue of vitality. Already last year, on the same occasion, the issue of vitality had been declared inadmissible for reasons related to the recent judgment of the Constitutional Court, as well as previous judgments of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, concerning a number of issues related to vitality, acquired rights, etc. A recent judgment of the Constitutional Court, also mentioned on certain agendas, has declared the eligibility of a solidarity contribution provided that it is limited, only on particularly high incomes and for a limited time, while the agendas in question provide for interventions of a different nature. Moreover, I note that several draft laws dealing with this subject are incardinated in the Chamber, which confirms that an intervention, if anything, should be done by law. This speech concerns agendas G13, G12, G14, G15, G16, G19, G20 and G21, of which, in analogy to what happened last year, should be declared inadmissible. Last year there was an agenda that asked for publication on the Senate website of the beneficiaries of the pension life; it was done and so did the House, without publishing the amounts and we would consider maintaining this orientation for matters of privacy and analogy with the Chamber of Deputies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, what agenda are you talking about? MALAN, Senator Commissioner. On the G17 agenda, on which I am against. The G18 agenda concerns the issue of the interruption of the vitality of former condemned Members of Parliament. As is well known, the matter has already been examined by the Presidency in the course of the year, with a long debate which has come to a resolution which, as the agenda itself mentions, has had its effects. It is well known that not everyone has been satisfied with that wording, but that is what the Presidency Council has decided and it would be very unusual to change it at a short time without any new facts. I therefore object, since it is normal for us to defend what is decided by the Presidency Council. As far as the G22 agenda is concerned, the opinion is opposed because the President's cabinet's expenditure has already been reduced, including as a budget, at the beginning of the parliamentary term. President Grasso, on his own initiative, felt that he was below the ceiling, which was therefore reduced. It is not considered appropriate to take further action. We are talking about a figure of 1.5 million euros and I remember that every senator in the United States (there are only 100, but there are 100), even if elected in a very small state, maybe 600,000-700,000 inhabitants, has an annual budget of 2.600,000 euros, so if our President of the Senate has a budget for his office of 1.5 million euros, I think we are keeping it right. With regard to the G23 agenda, the opinion is opposed because the subject has already been dealt with during this parliamentary term, in application of a law passed during the past parliamentary term to make the expected benefits for the figures who have held very high positions in our Republic in the end. More than benefits, these are instruments available to those who have held such positions, which, in the case of the Senate Presidency, also means a substantial Vice-President of the Republic, so we believe that what has already been decided is appropriate, limiting these prerogatives over time. I also object to the G24 agenda, which is similar to the following G25, because supplementary health care, which is privately subsidised by senators, is based on a principle of solidarity. As by definition the former senators are older than the senators, in the average and in the personal experience of each one certainly, if the current senators would not be disadvantaged those who have been senator in the past, so we would go to undermine a system that - I stress even if the Commissioner De Poli has already said so - is absolutely in balance and does not involve any disbursements from the Senate budget, indeed it has even a positive result thanks to the fact that there is a balance that cannot be upset. The opinion was opposed to the G26 agenda. The reduction of funds and the new overall discipline have already been achieved in the past legislature. As regards the G27 agenda, the opinion was opposed. We understand well the intent of the presenters, Senator Comaroli and others, but for the Constitution the senators exercise their duties without mandate, so it cannot be treated differently the Senator who changes Group compared to what has not changed it and consequently not even the Group of belonging. As regards the G28 and G29 agendas, which deal with the same subject, the subject is very complex. On the part of the quaestor senators there is the willingness, indeed we are determined to take the commitment to continue and, if possible, strengthen the support to the senators in order to make it easier, from the point of view of legal compliance, the conclusion of contracts with their collaborators and the maintenance of this working relationship, in compliance with the law, the dignity and the rights of the collaborators of the parliamentarians. This has already been done and we are committed to continuing this work. As for the direct responsibility of the Senate for the management of these collaborators, this would be extremely costly from the point of view of practical and bureaucratic management that today does not fall on the structure of the Senate. Secondly, it is difficult to do this when the funds available to the senators are very small compared to other countries with which the analogy has been proposed, in particular with the European Parliament, which is not another country, but which provides Members 24,000 euros per month; in the German Parliament the funds available are 19,900 euros per month, while in the French National Assembly there are 9,000 euros per month, excluding the employer's charges. With those figures something could be done, but with the EUR 4,180 available to senators, who also have to reimburse other expenses, it is frankly impossible to do anything. In a future, perhaps in parallel with a reduction in the number of Members (which I believe will be done in one way or another), we can think of an increase in the amounts allocated to this, but we are not in a position to do so at the moment. We are therefore in favour of accepting as a recommendation the part of the G28 agenda, which calls for measures to be taken to enable the senators' collaborators to enter the Chamber of Deputies, which must obviously be done in cooperation with the House and in accordance with the principle of reciprocity. As the mechanism provides for an assessment, the opinion is in favour of this. On the remaining part of the G28 agenda and on the G29 agenda, I would invite the presenters to withdraw with a commitment to work towards meeting the very real and important needs set out in them. On the agenda, Mr G30, I am in favour of adopting this recommendation, because there is a difference between these aspects in relation to the House: the House has executives employed outside the staff, and we do not have outside executives in the Senate. Therefore, it is a matter of adapting the legislation cited by the presenters of the agenda, Senator Lucidi and others, so that it can be adapted to the different structure and relationship of staff in the Senate compared to the other branch of Parliament. On the G31 agenda, I am also in favour, because in the Senate, since 2001, unlike in the other branch of Parliament, the system of clicks is subject to an evaluation by the bodies in charge, so we are certainly in favour of accepting an invitation that is already being followed. The G33 agenda deals with the application of an aspect of the so-called Frattini law, namely the possibility for Senate officials to gain experience in other structures. Here there are a number of problems that need to be addressed, such as preventing conflicts of interest from arising after these officials return to the Senate. We are committed to pointing out the issue of representation for relations with trade unions, which has examined it over the long and important work carried out over the last few months, but has set it aside precisely because of the complexity of the subject. As the College of Quaestors is unable to address this issue, we welcome the agenda in the sense that we are committed to pointing this opportunity - as the agenda calls for - to representation. As I have already said, I am opposed to the G34 because, in part, it is already being implemented here, i.e. the staff carrying out the apical functions mentioned here are subject to confirmation after three or four years, depending on the job. However, we are not in a position to do those rotations that can be done in other areas. Let us remember that we have had almost half the staff and that certainly not all of us are interchangeable - quite the opposite - so we have a very small number of people. Where possible, we follow a dynamic that has always been followed by the Administration of the Senate in its own interest, aimed at giving a varied experience to its officials, for their growth varying their skills and tasks with a shift from one sector to another of the Senate. However, this mechanism cannot be applied so rigidly, as can be done in a Ministry, which is a much wider structure. I am against the G35. These are a series of measures, which are put together but are already planned on other agendas. On the G32 the opinion is opposed, in analogy to what has been said with regard to other apical figures of the Senate. I am in favour of the G36 agenda, which makes a positive proposal, and I would like to thank the rapporteurs for that. The costs will have to be evaluated, because inevitably, even to a limited extent, it is a program that involves costs, but having young people who can carry out a training in the Senate I think is positive for our structure and would also bring a breath of youth. With reference to the agenda G37, at the first signature of Senator Comaroli, the Quaestors are fully prepared for dialogue and discussion on the issues that are reported, but from the institutional point of view, the reference for the Groups to the College of Quaestors and the Administration of the Senate in general is the Presidency Council, where, in fact, all the Groups are represented. On the G38 agenda, the opinion is in favour: we are already using the Council for our purchases today. As regards the agenda G43, I am in favour, subject to rewording of the commitment as follows: "to take action on the website to implement the publication of the register of the suppliers of the Administration on the Senate website, adapting to the rules introduced by the new Code of Procurement, rules that modify the discipline so at this time, as indicated by the senators who have illustrated this agenda, the page does not actually appear. With regard to the G39 agenda, I am in favour of the first part, while on the second part I would suggest stopping the words 'web TV' by taking away what is left, because it is useless to have a channel for each Commission when the work of the Commissions in general cannot be public. We already have eight channels for the transmission of the web TV and at this time they are even overabundant compared to the possibilities of making public broadcasts of the works of the Commissions. On the G40 agenda, I give a favourable opinion, subject to rewording, so that the mechanism would become the following: "to study criteria for the publication of deliberations of the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors of General Interest". It cannot be a general matter because there are certain aspects, even sensitive ones, which relate to tenders which cannot be anticipated outside before the Presidency Council, for example, has accepted what the Quaestors have proposed, but with this formula we are in favour. I am in favour of the G41 agenda: this section for the implementation of the agenda is already in place and will be strengthened in any case. On the G42 agenda, I am opposed to this because there is nothing that should be published systematically. In this text, we are asked to publish previous Members, but previous Members are all that is said in Parliament, and we are also setting precedents at the moment, even though they have many precedents behind them. This could not be done except in a very arbitrary way, so we can only refer to the acts of the Senate, which are all published and available to all. I am therefore against it because it is impossible. I am in favour of the G44 agenda, because the system it requires is already in operation at an experimental level and will be strengthened to make it accessible to all. I welcome the G45 agenda as a recommendation, because we can act on our behalf to be able to connect with the data banks of the Ministry of Economy, but this Ministry must make them available. I would remind you that just last week, when examining the draft law on local authorities, the issue was dealt with with with amendments which went in this direction. We can do our part and act as Senate to have this connection, but we need the Ministry to give it to us and perhaps we need a law if we have examined this possibility last week. I am in favour of the G46 agenda, and indeed we are already doing what is required: the use of food stocks is already being implemented, i.e. how much can be used for this purpose. On the G47 agenda, I am in favour of the Commission's well-known over-work budget, of which everyone is aware. I am also in favour of the G48 agenda. However, to the words 'electric vehicles', I would add the words 'hybrid vehicles'. The upgrade has already been done: there are several electric vehicles that are not additional but substitutes for previous vehicles with normal propulsion. As far as the G49 agenda is concerned, the items requested for half-life have already been halved, some are mandatory and I would remind you that this final chapter has been spent for less than half. However, the situation is such that we cannot prevent it, because some of these expenses could be called for because of an agreement with an external institutional body. Similarly, the opinion on the G50 agenda is against: the appropriations it deals with have already been halved at the beginning of the parliamentary term and it is considered sufficient. I apologize for extending, but I wanted to answer everyone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u77	As the rapporteur, Mr Tonini, does not intend to speak, we shall now proceed to the agenda, taking note of the inadmissibility that the Quaestors have proposed to us. (at 19:02) Senator Bonfrisco, do you accept the invitation to withdraw the G2 agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u78	Mr President, I wish to accept the invitation made by the Quaestors and withdraw the agendas for G2 and G28.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u79	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G3 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted, the G4 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G5 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G6 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G7 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G8 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G8 agenda, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G9 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. Having been accepted, the G10 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G11 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G11 agenda, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agendas G13 and G14 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G18 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G18 agenda, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agendas G15, G16, G20, G19 and G12 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G17 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G17 agenda, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G21 agenda is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G22 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G22 agenda, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G23 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G23 agenda, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G24 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G24 agenda, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G25 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G25 agenda, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G26 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G26 agenda, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G27 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u82	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would also be willing to vote on the agenda if Senator Comaroli were to accept a small change concerning those who were thrown out of the Group. There are people who have freely chosen and people who, irregularly, illegitimately and unjustifiably, have been excluded from the Group with which they legitimately entered. In fact, they would also be entitled to compensation, to some sort of accommodation allowance elsewhere. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Fucksia and Bencini.]] If Senator Comaroli were kind enough to accept a change in this sense, I think it would be more consistent with the reality that is consumed in this Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u83	Senator Comaroli, do you accept the change? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The opinion of the quaestor senators remains opposed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G27 (text 2), presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G28 agenda has been withdrawn. On the G29 agenda there is an invitation to withdraw. Senator Lucidi, do you insist on voting? LUCIDES (M5S). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G29 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G29 agenda, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On the agenda, Mr G30, there is a willingness to accept it as a recommendation. I would ask the authors if they insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u84	Mr President, I would like to ask the Quaestors to clarify why the same agenda, after a broad debate, was adopted last year. There was a broad discussion with Senators Questori Malan and De Poli, other colleagues from other parliamentary groups also intervened and was welcomed. The agenda is already quite mild, to accept it as a recommendation and not as it is written seems to me to be a mockery. I'd ask to welcome him as he is, if that's possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u85	Senators Quaestors want to intervene?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u86	Mr President, we would like to accept it as a recommendation for the different structure that the Senate has in relation to the House, but the commitment is that next year the senator should not submit a similar agenda, because it will have been exceeded by the implementation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u87	The agenda is therefore adopted as a recommendation. Are you insisting on the vote? MORONESE (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What is the opinion in case of a vote, Senator Malan? MALAN, Senator Commissioner. As a recommendation, the opinion was in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We cannot vote on a recommendation. Therefore, if the opinion is put to the vote as an agenda, it is against; as a recommendation it is accepted. Are you insisting on the vote, Senator Moronese? MORONESE (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G30 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. Having been accepted, the G31 agenda will not be put to the vote. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G33 agenda is accepted as an alert. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G34 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G34 agenda, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u90	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for clarification. Has the G12 agenda already been put to the vote or has it been declared inadmissible? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Quaestors have spoken on the G12 agenda: it is unacceptable. CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, the G12 agenda is identical to the G19 agenda, which was tabled at the sitting on 29 July 2015 and put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, we are on the agenda G35. CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, if you will allow me to speak, I would like to ask you to clarify the G12 agenda and why the Presidency has declared it inadmissible, even though it is identical to a agenda voted on last year. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, we are discussing the G35 agenda. We are not going back to the G12 agenda. CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, the matter needs to be clarified before the votes are completed, because the agenda for the G12 is to be voted on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, we are on the agenda G35. CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, will you allow me to conclude, or should I call myself Vincenzo D'Anna in order to speak? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u91	Do what you think.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u92	CASTALDI (M5S). I would like to ask you kindly to clarify the inadmissibility of the G12 agenda, which is identical to the G19 agenda, which was declared admissible and voted on at its sitting on 29 July 2015. I would ask the Presidency for clarification and for the G12 agenda to be put to the vote, if possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan has already spoken about this. If you wish to reiterate what has been said, I call for the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u93	Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment on something new compared to last year: the decision of the Constitutional Court, published this month, which, as I explained earlier, admits this type of reduction if it is limited in time, which is not on the G12 agenda. That's the new thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u94	Thank you, Senator Malan. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G35 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G35 agenda, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G32 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G32 agenda, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted, the G36 agenda will not be put to the vote. Let us turn to agenda G37.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u97	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am withdrawing the G37 agenda and I appreciate the availability of Senators Quaestors, who will see me more often in their office.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u100	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I have been given the honour to point out that Senator Aracri's card, which is not in the Chamber, is still included.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u101	Let's get Senator Aracri's card off now. (Senator Augello removes Senator Aracri's card.) I thank Senator Augello for his cooperation. Having been accepted, the G38 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Lucidi, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the G43 agenda? LUCIDES (M5S). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u104	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in order to be faster, however, we ask you to put to the vote the agendas for the day when there are changes that are accepted. I would therefore ask you to vote on the G43 agenda (text 2), although it has been accepted. We also call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u105	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G43 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Lucidi, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the G39 agenda? LUCIDES (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G39 agenda (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G39 (text 2), presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Lucidi, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the G40 agenda? LUCIDES (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G40 agenda (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G40 (text 2), presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted, the G41 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G42 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G42 agenda, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted, the G44 agenda will not be put to the vote. On the agenda, Mr G45, there is a willingness to accept it as a recommendation. Are you insisting on the vote, Senator Comaroli?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u106	Mr President, I do not insist on the vote. However, I would like to highlight one problem. Often we senators, when we have to prepare the various amendments and quantify their coverage, have a considerable difficulty in knowing how much the various chapters of expenditure amount to. In this regard, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law amending Law No 196 of 2009 on the content of the budget law, on which today in the 5th Commission Deputy Minister Morando expressed his view contrary, saying that this is already the case, in the sense that it is already available. I have seen that we have more than EUR 600,000 available in our budget, and what is missing is that we need to increase this accessibility. Therefore, acceptance as a recommendation is fine, for the issues highlighted by the quaestors senators, that is, that much depends on the MEF. However, I would ask the three Quaestors to urge this activation as soon as possible, also on the basis of what Mr Morando said in the Commission today.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u107	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G45 agenda is accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u110	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I wanted to speak because I thought that this was an important agenda to be voted on and not to be accepted as a simple recommendation. The subject raised by Mrs Comaroli is a matter of great importance for the performance of the parliamentary function, especially for the very important and very delicate role played by the Budget Commission. It is not, in fact, only under the law that this should be possible. Do not let the Quaestors be deceived by the technological, telematic and digital data of the open data which, in theory, should allow everyone to access that data. I see that there are colleagues who are well aware of the dynamics of this problem and who know that this means almost nothing. The point is that access to the data mart that allows you to verify the coverage and the real existence of the fund at that date is possible subject to conventions, as the law says. I have no doubt about that, and that will certainly not be the problem. The problem is, on the one hand, the will of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance which, of course, has not yet been positively recorded in relation to this; on the other hand, the problem is to implement that technological structure and resources capable of carrying out this function. Otherwise, this remains a fact, not only difficult, sometimes impossible, access, but it also becomes impossible for the Budget Commission to have it in real time to provide the necessary financial cover when colleagues table amendments that the Commission must assess independently and independently from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. And you can only do that if you know that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u111	As the agendas of the G46 and G47 have been accepted, they will not be put to the vote. On the agenda, Mr G48, Senator Quaestor proposed a rewording. Can you repeat that, Senator Malan?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u112	Mr President, after the word 'electric', we ask that the words 'hybrid' be added.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u113	Is the proposal for a rewording accepted? [[Senator Lucidi makes a nod of assent.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G48 agenda (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G48 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to agenda G49. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G49, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the G50 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G50 agenda, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u116	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, if we look at the budgets brought to the House by the Quaestors since 2008 to close with this, we see that there has been a trend towards a reduction in expenditure. In fact, we move from budgets that exceeded 650 million to those that are below 500 million. Reduce more than 25% of the expenditure of an Assembly to us seems to be well done. But we are talking about an institution which this House has already decided to delete. We are just waiting in October for a popular verdict that will establish whether the Senate has to close or does not have to close. What happens if we shut this senate down? Someone might say we're gonna save 495 million. But it's illusory. During the debate we played a little bit with the calculator. What would save an Italian citizen if we were to close the Senate? Taking the figure of 495 million, each citizen would save 0.67 cents each month; I repeat, he would save half a coffee every month. But it is not fair, it is not, because we have the budget detailed enough and we see how it is distributed: 102 million are for employees. Even if we close the Senate, I do not think that we can suppress the staff, which will be relocated to other bodies, will be distributed, so these expenses cannot be cancelled. The same is true of the 10 million staff employed in the secretariats of the Presidency and so on. How can we cancel the 138 million for employees in quiescence? We can't go to the senate pensioners' house and tell them they won't get anything tomorrow. We couldn't even erase, right or wrong, the vitality of the former senators, which amounts to almost 80 million. The only savings that, by closing the Senate (although this will not be the case because the new senators will have the same costs, will receive allowances to live in Rome, and we will have to find a formula), you will get 98 million euros, which represent the costs that your budget needs to make parliamentary groups and senators work. This means that the numbers I gave before are no longer valid, because every Italian citizen would see in his pockets, given the savings, an increase of 13 cents each. I repeat that because it remains in the record: every Italian would save 13 cents a month. Then we understand what the cost of democracy is. The message at this point goes to Renzi and the Government. We're already in the referendary pre-country period. You can't tell the lies; you have to tell the Italians that the great reform achieved will save only 13 cents each month for every Italian. They are not inventions, but the data that emerge from analyzing this budget. If we were then to make another parallel account, so for every immigrant who is hosted on our territory we must invest 35 euros per day, considering the real number of immigrants, that is the 100,000 scattered in the various reception centers, the figure of the Senate would amount to not even half of the costs for the reception: the costs of democracy are - I repeat - less than half of the costs of the reception. Well, we appreciate the work done by Senators Quaestors, we appreciate the trend of the expenditure review, we appreciate the concrete results we have seen during the last parliamentary term, which have continued in this parliamentary term as well. My group says that we cannot enter too much into this budget, because we do not have a Senator Commissioner and we do not have the opportunity to make choices. We don't feel much like criticizing these choices, so we announce a benevolent abstention by the North League.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u119	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the budget numbers presented to us by the College of Quaestors for 2015 and 2016 are positive for us because they are part of the important choice that the Presidency has made since 2013, namely to rationalise expenditure and try to eliminate waste in order to reduce the general costs of the Senate without losing its functionality. Much work is still to be done, but the 44 million surplus in 2015 is not irrelevant, even here following a choice of previous years, surplus that in part, we are told, is returned to the State. So the budget numbers were very clear. We consider this work quite positive. All of us today have had a chance to read them. However, I believe it is also necessary to respond to an old teaching which requires that numbers should sing politically, so we must add a political reading to these numbers. Many things have been said and many things have been written about the excessive costs of the Senate. The populisms of these times, both those of the majority and those of the opposition, constantly blundered data in support of opposing thesis. The result is that the Senate costs too much. On the other hand, in recent years, politics has not set a good example, it has not been rigorous. Not all citizens' representatives have acted in the general interest from inappropriate use of resources, and this has certainly been one of the reasons that have helped to remove citizens from having confidence and esteem in their representatives. Today we cannot ignore the fact that there is a process of rationalization and strong changes that obviously face a thousand difficulties but that the Senate is carrying out. Everything is still too slow, certainly, but it was not at all taken for granted to be able to make serious savings to the Senate and also with a choice made by the entire Legislative Assembly. I believe that we should be able to explain this to the citizens well, we should explain it with clarity and transparency because, unfortunately, in recent times, they listen to authoritative representatives of the Government, starting with the President of the Council and the Minister for Reforms, who refer to the important economic savings that would result with the approval of the constitutional reform that does not eliminate the Senate but only eliminates the right of choice and participation of citizens. After sending 3,000 politicians home now the government commercial is kicking 315 senators. Apart from the bad taste and the undignified silence of the majority of colleagues, I would like to point out that the Senate budget is divided into two macro areas: 54.88 percent, i.e. 272 million, serves for operating expenses and the remaining 45.12 percent, i.e. 223 million, for social security expenditure. Social security costs include the costs of senators, group staff, employees and social security charges. The costs of senators' competences, said Senator Divina before, amount to about 41 million, so the savings of the Senate with the reform could be 41 million because the Senate of nominees will continue to work and will have its costs. We would not, however, like to add a reflection, to find this saving, of course in part to the number of 100, in the budgets charged to the regions. In fact, I do not believe that reimbursements will be spared for the expenses incurred in carrying out the mandate. The next senators, although appointed and even only 100, will have double assignment, double college and double electoral expenses. I do not think we would spare the famous vitality of the senators elected before 2012 because, as today's debate has shown, it is a sensitive issue, we are in the field of acquired rights but it would be very interesting and useful to find a serious solution to the pension system of all parliamentarians, finding the way to bring everything and everyone back into the ordinary pension system, a complex topic that would require attention and perhaps another president of the INPS to confront. I do not think that transfers to parliamentary groups will be spared, because although it is not yet known whether the next Senate will have the parliamentary groups, there are many people working in the groups, many precarious for years (the famous historical precarious), workers and workers enrolled in the resolution of 1993. This also applies to the workers and workers of the secretariats. And I don't think you're gonna want to save the cost of employees by mass dismissal, under penalty of the Senate's non-functionality. In that case the savings would be guaranteed, but you would close the Senate first. All this to say that demagogy does not automatically reduce costs, but I believe that the work of the Presidency Council, of the College of Quaestors, still has ample room for movement to rationalise costs, propose solutions, reduce senators' allowances; a serious reform of the social security system to abolish vitalities. But it is necessary and necessary and no longer feasible to find a solution to this issue: it is called social justice. For a long time, before constitutional reform, work has been underway to unify the role of employees and parliamentarians in the Chamber and Senate for the establishment of the single role. A job still in pride, but I would like to point out to all of us that we must have the protection of employees and also of all precarious people who have been an integral part of the Senate for years. Finally, we would like to thank for their work, professionalism, dedication and passion, all the employees and employees of the Senate, the Secretary General, the Deputy Secretaries General, the executives, the officials, the parliamentary assistants, the stenographers, the archivists, the librarians, the voting officials, the employees and the staff of the custody, cleaning and administration services and the police forces, because without their valuable work, daily, often silent and too unappreciated, we senators would not be able to do our job, but above all I would like to say thank them all for the high sense of the State that they deliver to us every day. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u122	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, like every year at this time, here is the farce of the Senate budget. I use the term farce not for reasons of preconceived political hostility but because it is the most appropriate noun to describe a budget that should represent in a truthful and correct way the financial situation of the Senate and that, instead, thanks to the choices of this majority, is a document devoid of reliability. The reasons for our accusations are varied and some of them also have distant origins. In fact, as we have been repeating for three years now, the mystification of the accounting reality of the Senate began in 2013, when, in order to reach the savings foreseen by the G100 agenda of 2011, thanks to an accounting artifice, sums were moved between the round matches that in all previous budgets had always been placed differently. That shift in budget chapters, in a nutshell, was made for the sole purpose of making a saving of EUR 20,300,000 appear that was actually not there. The swindle of the Senate budget continued also in 2014 continuing to include among the round matches contributions to the Senate Staff Welfare Fund and contributions to the Solidarity Fund among senators. If these rumors had been left where they had always been until 2012 we would have spent more than 20 million euros compared to those declared. And even in this year's budget there is a series of bad, well-established behaviors that have the only effect of altering the truthfulness of the budget. I am referring, for example, to the trick of moving the sums reduced by the expenditure chapters into reserve funds so that we can say that we have made savings when, in fact, there has only been an accounting shift. This year the reserve funds increased by as much as 500,000 euros compared to the previous year. Entering into the merits of the individual chapters, we can note that the Senate plans to waste 1,965,000 euros for ceremonial and representation expenses, to which must be added contributions to mysterious foundations and to third parties for 195,000 euros and contributions for the fantastic circle of Palazzo Madama for 50,000 euros. In addition, the cost of the annual renewal of the contract with RAI Way, for the small amount of 400,000 euros, is not enough: money literally given away, or rather, thrown away only because of the disinterest and negligence of the Ministry of Economic Development that, despite the explicit forecast of article 14-bis of Law No 221 of 2012, has not yet taken the necessary measures to allow the transmission of our works on the free platform of terrestrial digital. Another example of creative accounting is the operating surplus, i.e. the amount that is formed with the approval of the statement, when there are lower expenditure or higher revenue than those anticipated. However, the singularity of the Senate is given by the fact that every year, between the forecast balance sheet and the final figures of the statement, very significant operating surpluses are formed, and this year we are witnessing an operating surplus of as much as 44,222,684,79 euros. This sum is only partially reported in the 2016 forecast balance sheet, and in fact in the initial fund we find only €12.355.146. The choice to distribute over several years the operating surpluses is incomprehensible from the logical and accounting point of view; certainly it does not help in clarity and transparency, so much so that every year it is necessary to ask the accounting office specifically for the prospectus with the residual shares of the operating surpluses of previous years not yet used. There are still significant margins for reducing budget expenditure and, therefore, the budget that the Senate receives from the State. But it is now customary to expect higher expenses. The truth is that if the forecasts were made in a more objective way, the resources that the State pays to the Senate could be reduced, but we don't care, because we are not the State! We of the 5 Star Movement in the State still believe in it and, therefore, our vote will be against. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u125	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, to sum up, I will only mention the points which I consider to be important and ask you to allow me to deliver the written text of the speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if the referendum is aimed at saving the important and useful state - which we all want to pursue - the report we have heard from the Quaestors today shows that this saving in the referendum will not achieve it in such an important way as to be one of the reasons why it is right to support constitutional change. In fact, the Quaestors have said very well that the savings will be 0.6% of the entire state spending. With the data we have prepared, we want to stress that if the objective pursued by constitutional reforms is to achieve savings, count to hand, we will not achieve this savings. On the merits, the accounts show the continuous process undertaken in this XVII legislature in relation to the function of the overall cost of the Senate. It should be noted that over the years it has taken on very significant proportions. It must also be stressed that transparency is constantly improved, and that is something that citizens will certainly be happy about. In this sense, in expressing our satisfaction with the virtuous development of the expenditure of the Administration, I declare the favorable vote of the FI-PdL Group XVII, both on the statement and on the budget forecast, and of course I thank the Senators Quaestors for their work all the staff and those who have collaborated in achieving this objective. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u128	DEL BARBA (PD). Mr President, if you will allow me, at this point I would like to follow the example of Senator Mandelli in depositing the text of the speech, which is rather full-bodied, but I would like to make a few comments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. DEL BARBA (PD). Mr President, Senators and Senators, I believe that today's debate has been an appreciable moment of discussion and that when an institution approves its budget it does not simply carry out an act that serves to respect regulations and procedures, but lives a high-level political moment: the debate, in fact, touched on many points concerning the voices of the Senate that testify to the political commitment of the various groups, each with its own style. In my view, on several occasions, the main reasons for the Democratic Party to vote in favour of the draft budget have been highlighted, in particular for the savings it has made. However, I believe that the reasons have not found the right pride, the right demand on the part of this House. To sum up, I would like to propose the reasons why, in our view, we should emphasise these achievements with greater emphasis, even before the citizens. In fact, the cuts are not always important and are not always useful; but in this case, that the maximum institution of the State, at a time when we all ask sacrifices to the country, has constantly committed itself in recent years on a path of cost reduction and has kept these commitments, I think it is a fact to be emphasized with great satisfaction. In particular, since 2006 the Senate represents 0.06% of the costs of public administration, compared to 0.083 of that time. In particular, from 2013 to today we are going to return 65.5 million. These numbers are important first of all for their symbolic value, but also for their absolute number. I agree with what Senator Carraro said: perhaps it is not up to us to say whether the efficiency and effectiveness of the institution we represent has been achieved in the full sense; the citizens will say so. However, this first symbolic aspect, I believe, is a merit that has been achieved, as it is - as Senator Tonini reminded us - having taken stock of what the G100 agenda dictated as a goal that could then seem ambitious. With the work of every year, carried out by the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, we have maintained this rate of cuts, but preserving the efficiency and functioning of the Senate. Certainly, as many have already mentioned, this is largely due to the employees, who have been asked for the greatest sacrifices in terms of weight reduction within the Senate budget, without losing the quality of service. All together we have emphasized that this means only one thing: high professionalism. We must therefore acknowledge this merit and also that we must accompany their contractual remodulation with a great sense of responsibility. Sometimes it is important to tell the citizens that we are doing well, that we are doing it together, and I also consider it important for the opposition forces. Some agendas have been called ironically demagogic; I do not think they all have been, but it is certainly demagogic to hide the successes we must be proud of. As for the cuts - and I close - it is evident that we have brought the machine to a very significant level of efficiency. Just as it is clear to those who want to pursue more remarkable cuts, such as those that have been pointed out, that only constitutional reform will achieve this result. As much as there is concern and concern about reconstructing data that minimizes the result of those cuts, it is clear, already from the reading of this budget, that the only voice of the senators is to obtain savings of an order of magnitude greater than the one we are delighting at today. It is also clear that, with reform in place, these savings will increase year by year. In fact, all ambitious projects need years to settle down. But above all it is clear that the most important savings that we will give to Italians will not only be those of the Senate budget, but will be those of the inefficiencies that will be less, bringing the Regions and the autonomy to Rome in the legislative moment and starting a legislative process faster, that allows to arrive first to the needs of the enterprises and the families. I believe that all these points should be made with pride, and that is why the Democratic Party Group is voting in favour of the Senate budget. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u129	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on document VIII, No 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2015 (Doc. VIII, No 7). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall proceed to the vote on document VIII, No 8. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2016 (Doc. VIII, No 8). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group]] We thank the Senators Quaestors. [[Applause from the PD groups]] , FI-PdL XVII and AP (NCD-UDC).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u132	DE POLI, Senator Commissioner. Mr President, I know that colleagues have commitments, so they are leaving the Chamber, but I would like to thank them for their attention during the budget and I would like to thank all the groups, including those who clearly did not share our position (but are part of the parliamentary dialectics). I would like to thank the President of the 5th Commission, Mr Tonini, my colleagues who are here with me and, in particular, all the employees of the Senate, for the contribution they have made to the budget and for what they normally give to this institution. Starting with the Secretary-General, I thank the Deputy Secretaries-General, all the directors and all our assistants who have also helped us with the organization today, here in the Chamber. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] In particular, thank you to the President. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u133	We thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u136	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, it has been months, if not years, since the day when we spoke more specifically about the land of fires. In that period, as there was media attention and, therefore, the news gave some attention to those who talked about that problem, the President of the Council, never voted by the citizens, Renzi made an announcement and also came to Naples (obviously whistled because the Neapolitan people do not get caught by the nose) taking the commitment to solve the problem of the land of fires. He put money actually; it was few, but still put it. After a few months what happened? They were not even used because this money took them away to give it to the Expo project that we know very well where it went. We know very well that the current mayor of Milan has not yet published the last budgets of Expo. So we know very well that this money from the land of fires went instead to Expo. Our President played the game of three cards: I'll give them to you, then I'll take them away from you; I'll give them to you again and I'll take them back. Mr President, we must stop playing this game because people's lives are involved. The land of the fires still burns; unfortunately these are days that in the Province of Naples are burned burns. The last, unfortunately, was access to Vesuvius. It's probably not garbage, but these stutters are still at large. With that money it was necessary to verify and monitor the territory. We ask the Minister again for an immediate table to be again financed for the land of fires in order to eradicate these pigs and stumps. [[Applause from Senator Girotto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u139	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I just wanted to point out that in my previous speech I did not offend anyone; I only expressed an opinion in which I believe that I propose the agenda for the abolition or, at least, the reduction of vitalities. Senator D'Anna may have a different opinion and could express it without offending anyone. I remember three topical moments in which the senator gave glory to this House; I remember them by heart. It comes to my mind when he paraphrased the Minotaur by moving the head of the Woods on Verdini's body and praising his unusual beauty. I remember when, along with the neighbor counter, he delighted us with the sexual simulations. I also remember when, using a phrase from Al Capone, referring to her, she commented: It is only chatter and badge, comparing it to Pontius Pilate and asking for his immediate resignation for manifest inability. Then he started a hunger strike that hasn't finished yet (but to look at it doesn't seem to have any effect). [[Laughter.]] Apart from these memories - and I invite Senator D'Anna to continue attacking my person or the Group because I will be proud of these "value medals" to tell my grandchildren - I ask you, President, that if these statements of the citizen's employee, to the century Senator D'Anna, have been recorded, appropriate initiatives should be taken about them. I remember some by heart and I quote it because I may not be on the record, (I then quote them), but I believe that thanks to the excellent work of the verbalizers these words are already there. "Manfrina mendace" is good; "Pulcinella" is good, addressing the whole Group; "Scalcinato" is good for me personally, "Sproved" is good for me, in "malafede" and "deficiente" is good for me; "Revolutionary" is good for clams and "Little Fascists" is good for all of us; "Paggiaccio" is good for Senator Cioffi. In addition to these words, which I remember by heart, one was even allowed to first launch a sheet and then, not content, a dossier to Senator Lucidi. Mr President, with regard to these words, which are contained in the shorthand report, I would ask you to take appropriate action. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u140	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-664.ana.u141	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 21 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.04 p.m.
