ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). I would remind you that yesterday's sitting did not approve the Minutes of the sitting of 7 December. Therefore, before reading the Minutes of yesterday's sitting, the Minutes of the sitting of 7 December must be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put to the vote the Minutes of the sitting of 7 December. It's approved. The Minutes of yesterday's sitting shall be read. Mr BERGER, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u8	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u9	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes of yesterday's sitting to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u11	The next item is the debate on the communication from the President of the Council of Ministers. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, delivered the text of the programmatic declarations made to the House of Deputies. He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u12	Mr President, I want to say this at once: we in the Italian Left will not trust this Government; we will not give it because what has happened in politics over the years, Mr President, is something that has gone beyond the limits of decency from our point of view. In my first speeches, I said that if the spaces of democracy in these classrooms were reduced, we could see what was happening in the country. What I think is important to say is that the government has never really taken into account what was happening in the country; it is proof... [[Brusio]] Mr President, I am sorry, but we cannot speak in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u13	Anyone who is not interested in listening to the speeches in general is asked to leave the Chamber. Otherwise, I would ask you to behave so that at least you can listen to what is said in the individual speeches. Please, Senator Barozzino.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I was saying that the issue that concerned me, and which concerned everyone a little bit, was that of democracy. The first thing I reiterated in my first speeches was that there was a lack of democracy and that, if the lack of democracy started from these classrooms (which - I want to remind everyone - belong to Parliament), let alone what was happening in the country. I, who have a working history of some kind coming from the working world, had no doubt about what was happening. I have invited everyone several times to go to the workplace, to the factories but not only, to understand what was happening. The rejection of this Government comes from the real world, because what happened especially in the world of work is something that, as I said, goes beyond any limit of decency. The world of work has literally been massacred by a policy that has been unable to listen to its cry of pain. I say this with regret: he has operated in such a superficial way that we all really have to worry about what is going on. I want to provide some data on what this Government has unfortunately produced over the last three years. The world of work has been reduced to virtually a voucher: you could safely go to the tobacco store and buy a good job. The increase in redundancies was really something incredible. What has produced the jobs act is under everyone's eyes and is truly a shame... [[Brusio]] Mr President, I am sorry, but I cannot speak like this. This is about democracy, but every time someone really puts this issue at the center...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u15	Please, I urge you to dissolve the huts in this House, because this is not a square.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u16	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Thank you again, Mr President. In my speeches I have always said that it was not even necessary to wait for the outcome of the referendum: as far as I am concerned it was very clear that this Government would be "flung" - and I want to use a very mild term - because it has nothing to do with the real world, with what was really happening in the world of work. I have tried several times, both in the Commission and in this House, to highlight what was really happening, but this Government has been absent. Now, after this rejection, I want to remind you that 20 million Italians have said no to this government and to the ruin that they wanted to make of the Constitutional Charter. I remind everyone that the policies that were previously made already went towards a reduction of the spaces of democracy in this country. Therefore we really cannot give any confidence to this Government. I want to make one last appeal before my time runs out. The CGIL has collected 3.300,000 signatures to cancel the devastating policies for democracy in our country and for the world of work. I now ask all the forces who have said that they wanted to safeguard this country's democracy to work to ensure that a democratic instrument such as the referendum is respected even when it comes to workers and the world of work. Otherwise, we have talked so far about fried air. In conclusion, in a democratic country, when the world of work is trampled on as has been done in recent years, we cannot talk about true democracy; in fact, if the worker or worker cannot be free, I do not know what democracy we are talking about. The world of work has been brought to truly nineteenth-century levels. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish. BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. We call on this policy to be a worthy representative, especially of the world of work (and when I talk about the world of work I include everyone). If there really must be a market - as someone calls it - in the world of work, this market is in here, it is in politics: I say this with regret, Mr President, because politics should serve the people. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u17	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u18	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this morning I read an article in Staino on Unity dedicated to the perspectives of the Government and the Party. At one point we mention a programmatic appointment in part evoked also in yesterday's debate (Taormina in May) and it is said that it is a smacking for Italy that on that occasion there is Gentiloni Silveri and not Renzi. It doesn't look like that to me at all. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the previous Government, you should note, however, that what happened in Europe between Ventotene (we were at the end of August) and the press conference of the European Summit (not the European Summit) in October. In fact, his predecessor was omnipresent at the press conference in Italy after every European summit, but less where the European summit took place. After comparing Italy's positions between Ventotene and Bratislava - no more than six and a half weeks away - I frankly consider it humiliating for a country that founded the idea of Europe to take blackmailing positions. This is why our Group has not particularly appreciated - although it understands and considers them legitimate and understandable - its calls yesterday to continuity with the previous Executive. We, however, in this House, with regard to the establishment of the Government in Parliament (because there is an institution of government and an institution of parliament and, in democracy, also an institution of government in Parliament) expect from its Executive a restoration of constitutional loyalty and correctness, which have frankly fallen in desuescence with respect to the recurrent and systematic habit of decree-law and vote of confidence, even prior to the general discussion. We expect, therefore, a strong discontinuity. From this point of view - let me tell you this with all the amiability of which our political tradition is the bearer - in your policy statements you made only indirect references to the referendum on Sunday, December 4. From the point of view of institutional correctness, I believe that this is an act of inattention and in some way of irresponsibility. I do not say that to assert the reasons, which prevailed, of no with respect to yes. But at least you had to note that on that occasion the democratic participation, of which the previous colleague spoke so loudly, was a third greater than that of three months ago, in administrative consultations for the much loved by the Italian elected mayor. This must be a reason for reflection for everyone; you cannot escape it in the name of continuity with the previous Executive. I would like to say to you that we, a small opposition group (but deeply attached to the idea of constitutionalism), believe that 70% deserve respect, both in the government and in Parliament. [[Applause from the CoR and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL).]] In this respect, I will present with many of my group's colleagues (of course also open to others) the immediate proposal for a constituent Assembly, a constituent Assembly in which, in the light of the experience we have experienced here in this House, the Government's opinion may be requested by the Assembly, but a constitutional reform signed and marked by the Commission cannot be carried out. [[Applause from the CoR and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL).]] The Constitution is an act binding citizens, Parliament and the Government. A constitutional reform of the whole Government cannot be voted upon, even by naming the text of the Government as a reference text. We hope, for those commitments that await us on this subject at the borders between politics and constitutional policy, to be able to reason calmly and to make our contribution, critical but passionate. Speaking of passion, let me say one last thing: when you were Minister for Foreign Affairs you happened to be slapped (in the press, not under the Gelli code) by the then President of the Council for the positions that Farnesina had taken on relations with Israel. Later (I think President Renzi spoke of autopilot) we were in UNESCO alongside those UN-plated speeches that a colleague like former President Napolitano... GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr Madia, would you please allow the President of the Council to listen? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, you don't have the floor. Comrade (CoR). President Napolitano, as President of the Republic, said that there is an anti-Zionism that masks anti-Semitism. These are things we disgusted with. I would have been pleased if you had come to the House or at least to the Commission at the time of the transfer with President Alfano two months ago, instead of by the press and by interview, because we, precisely because we are in opposition, want a relationship with the Government that respects the prerogatives of the Senate. [[Applause from the CoR and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u19	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with the ill-fated, dangerous constitutional reform imposed on Parliament by the Renzi-Boschi couple, a couple still well nailed to the command poll, tried to cheat the Italians, well hidden by a deceptive question that flaunted cuts of chairs and non-existent savings, but 20 million Italians, crowded at the polls, foiled the trap and rejected it. Failed because you wanted to remove the right to vote, with the aim of getting citizens even further away from the institutions. Failed because you wanted to remove powers, powers and resources from ordinary regions and pass them on to the inefficient central state. Failed because millions of Italians did not want to sell their freedom for a bonus or for a handful of euros promised by Renzi, because these Italians wanted to continue to be free women and men and masters of their future and understood the risk of giving the country sovereignty to Europe, banks and big finance. They rejected above all because they wanted to get rid of Renzi and renzism, who have already done too much damage, in addition to the rift of the country that created the referendum campaign. The Renzi and Renzi Government, despite what he says in the various greetings of goodbye and not of farewell (as he had promised), leaves in inheritance bad results. I note high unemployment, especially among young people, despite the 20 billion spent on recruitment incentives that have drugged the labour market. I signal the escape of Italians abroad (107,000 in 2005), including and above all many qualified young people. I signal the historical record of Italians in absolute poverty: 4.6 million is the figure of the last days comforted and further strengthened by the update that 30 percent of Italians are on the threshold of poverty and, in particular, the numerous single-income families, with three or more children, who are still waiting for the 80 euro promised by Renzi in 2014. I'm reporting taxes that haven't decreased at all. I signal the increase of the public debt of 105 billion, on average 105 million per day, only for the current expenditure. Maybe, in fact, the public debt for investments was increased: no, they have decreased significantly and also the new budget law, approved in haste and fury, signals for 2017 a further decrease of 8%. What about the various bad and devastating reforms such as jobs act, good school, so-called Delrio law and bank rescue? I ask you a few questions, Prime Minister Gentiloni. Thinking of Trump, who in recent days has made important decisions about the F35 or the new Air Force One, ordered by Obama, of which he seems to want to cancel or resize the order, what do you intend to do about the blue plane, the toy bought under lease by Renzi for 170 million, to the face of the Italians who pull the belt? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] A plane that is poorly or not used and that has been parked for a year in a hangar of Fiumicino, paying high rent costs and with a huge commitment of the staff of the 31st flock. What are you going to do with the Provinces, which are on the verge of collapse because of the unholy choice of the so-called Delrio law and which now, due to the rejection of the reform, remain alive without money, but with competence on the roads and schools? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] What do you intend to do with the irresponsible choices made by the Government and Minister Padoan with the tax delegation that, contrary to the objective of simplification, has introduced an excess of compliance and quarterly VAT communications? Do you, like Monti, who established the Ministry for Territorial Cohesion, intend to continue as Renzi favoring or countering the most becero clientelism, like that done in recent days with the promises to Governor D'Alfonso in Abruzzo or De Luca in Campania, that you have been given 600 million to heal yet another hole in the budget? And what about unholy immigration? Over 175,000 landings, 6 percent more than in 2014; no repatriation. Premier Gentiloni, do not do border controls; do you know that of the nearly 13,000 Pakistanis who have applied for asylum, only 20% have entered by sea and 80% have entered by land, from Slovenia and Austria, without controls? It is for this reason that the bad Alfano, on the front also of the welcome that is exploding, wanted to leave the Viminale. Not that the country is in conditions of greater security! Minister Alfano asks Italians who live entirely in fear. We, as a Group of the North League, do not believe that this Government has the cards in order, because it is the perfect continuation of the Renzi one government. You do not have the cards in order to serve the country, also because you, Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri, confirmed many bad Ministers. I conclude by saying that the Northern League, starting next weekend and then continuing in the coming weeks, will organize initiatives in the squares of Italy, to give voice to those millions of Italians [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] who demand the vote immediately, claiming their sovereignty, as stated in Article 1 of the Constitution. The North League, Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri, will make in Parliament, from here on, a very hard opposition and without discounts to its Government which, I remember, is the fourth abusive Executive not elected by the Italians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we took note of the outcome of the referendum: Matteo Renzi's resignation came from the awareness that the majority who supported his government saw the citizens reject that constitutional reform that was both right and objective of the government and of the legislature. The referendum cancels a reform that I continue to think was necessary for the country but, beyond the caricatures of these days and the things I have heard even this morning, that referendum does not cancel the many reforms and the work done in these thousand days. We have done useful things for the country and for many citizens; we will talk about it and tell it in the next few days, we will read the results when there will be serenity and the possibility to do so. You today, President Gentiloni Silveri, with your Government and your majority courageously assume a not simple responsibility: to bring the country to the elections addressing urgent issue for the country itself, for Italy, how to intervene on the banking system, consolidate the work begun for the reconstruction of areas affected by the earthquake, to face international commitments (including the issue of the government of immigration). President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. It is easier to animate a permanent electoral campaign than to make the effort to give solutions to complex problems, knowing that reforms, starting from those made in recent years, crack certainties, affect privileges and need time to concretely improve the lives of people who are in difficulty, a time that often risks being perceived as too long, as unacceptable. It is not in his or our history, however, the habit of choosing in the face of difficulties the shortcut of propaganda, rather than trying, as we are doing, to govern at the service of the country and the Italians. What we are voting on today is not, does not want and does not need to be a government to make a living: there are clear objectives and I believe that we can still complete work not yet completed in Parliament, which has advanced in the relationship between the State and the Regions: I am thinking of the reform of gambling and the reform of the anti-mafia code. It is a great commitment that is being made, President, and that your Government is taking on. But perhaps the most difficult commitment that has been made in its introduction and presentation is to set ourselves the goal of trying to bring back to this country and these classrooms a civil debate that respects the institutions: it serves our democracy. Feeding the permanent confrontation, accrediting the idea that everything does not work, that everything is a fraud and that this is a hopeless country risks strengthening an anti-institutional drift that is neither right nor left, but is desperate and produces discredit on all. A policy based on the delegitimization of the opponent, not on comparison and proposal, is not a good policy. I am convinced, Mr President, that you and your Government will work to try to bring back the debate on things and solutions. Congratulations, President, to you and your ministers. We're here. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u23	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, how bitter to see how the ruling class of one of the most supported parties has dragged into an exhausting struggle for power throughout the parliamentary term: Marini, Prodi, Bersani, Letta, Renzi himself, this is the painful litany of those who were sacrificed thinking that the power in the party was worth what or more of the destiny of the nation. Yes, the nation, Mr President, the great absentee in the risiko of the last three years: banks, school, young people, work, integration and taxes, words that have become figurines of communication strategies that have given nothing in terms of space to reality. A painful reality, which calls for good governance and to which you propose palace games, pretending to drive Verdini away in order to guarantee Renzi the supremacy at the Congress of the Democratic Party. The reality, however, is not the PD congress. Many of us shared a judgment at the beginning of the legislature, motivating the readiness to a great coalition: too great are the problems and obstacles on the path of Italy! A common effort is needed to remove them, but the subsequent history, that of the Renzi Government, has confused the crisis of the State with the looting of its resources, the valorization of merit with the occupation of the public thing by its acolytes, the launch of reforms with the creation of rules that guarantee the bank to always win. The people reacted, going en masse to the polls as they had not done for a long time, defended how they could freedom and democracy and, paradoxically, rejected the populism of the anti-political government by defending the institutions, their meaning, their being guarantors and not masters of people's lives. What do you do? Close your eyes, shut your ears, make a government that takes the institutions hostage and uses them to defer the outcome of your internal death. That is, remove the rock of the reforms, abolishing the Ministry of Reference, like those who abolish the crime of theft because they are unable to take the thieves. You prepare for the vote with an extravagant splash against the oppositions, saying if you are capable, you make the electoral law... with the evil intention to sabotage this process in order to impose laughable finishes of the Italicum, after the decision of the Constitutional Court. In short, you want to get there without really being able to share the electoral law, because a shared law would expose you to a certain defeat. It does not make any more sense to speak with this majority, except to stigmatize the slow agony that you have dispensed to the Republic: more deficit, more debt, more chaos in public administration and school, more will in university careers, more legal uncertainty and, of course, more taxes, more taxes, billions more, both in 2015 and 2016. Even more time lost is to reflect on the distressing 1,000 days of the Renzi Government, marked by a gangherate chased to the consensus made by disassembling the accounts of the State, writing rules punctually revealed to be unconstitutional, playing to "disintermediate": this word is almost comical, if it were not that it concealed the first attempt of history, on the part of politics, to divide civil society, separating, as in the case of Confindustria and Coldiretti, the opinion of the leaders from the feeling of the base. To intervene today, in this Chamber, it makes sense therefore if you draw with patience and strength a possible alternative and you humbly point it to our people. I turn then to the political forces, who in the wake of the recent history of the country have ruled its fate, as an alternative to a left that today appears exaggeratedly bent on its own internal struggles. We, in fact, don't split up. Italy needs a politically cohesive front, in which there is room for all, to re-launch the very meaning of popular sovereignty and the indispensable role of our nation in the Euro-Mediterranean context. Let us learn from our mistakes and those of our adversaries: it is the people who choose their own guidance. We are close to our people, to their needs, to show ourselves solicitous and loyal with the difficulties of the nation and we will discover that our new and well-considered unity and ideas will be more useful to Italy and Europe than any beauty contest for the leadership of a political perimeter, which can be all the wider the more inclusive we will be. Reaffirming our confidence, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I wish the first government with the vouchers for good work, of course another referendum, the one on jobs act, will be your definitive awareness of the reality of the country. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Candiani, Casaletto and Di Maggio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u25	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u26	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, everyone has their own ideas, but I think that Article 1 of the Constitution obliges Parliament and all those who have an institutional role to take note that the 2006 referendum and then the 2016 referendum have established that the Italian people love this Constitution, this parliamentary Republic as it was coined sixty-nine years ago, which is why they are obliged to apply it. We must make an electoral law that must first of all be adherent to the Constitution - it cannot be mistaken on this - as well as representative and able to ensure governance. The law must be made by the Parliament, and in this sense I invite the Government and the majority group leaders to allow the relevant committees and the Chamber and Senate assemblies to discuss it. Members will have an obligation to be specific and to decide reasonably quickly. Mr President, you have confirmed to the economy Minister Padoan, a person of professional and moral quality. I hope that Minister Padoan will learn from the many mistakes he has made to improve the action of your Government, to which I will deny confidence, but which I hope will do well for the country. Many errors have been made at the banks' level; some facts are evidence of this. First of all, those who deserve compensation for the issue of the four banks received only around 15%. Moreover, the reform of the people has perhaps been declared unconstitutional by the Council of State, not by us. Javazzi's article on the "Corriere della Sera" this morning does not allow me to go too far in explaining how many and what gaps the government has had in the question of banks. In this regard, I would like to say that, in the Senate's Finance and Treasury Committee, the majority and all the opposition representatives - and I stress all of them - have paid great attention and interest to the issue of banks. Mr President, the Government has an obligation to act, but also to hear Parliament and to allow it to express itself with serenity, without trusting too much at random. I would also like to recommend, if there were State interventions within Montepaschi or other, that care be taken to ensure that advisors do not earn too much money on interventions that have often failed to obtain private capital. Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your economic analysis - which I share - of the social drama, the youth, the Mezzogiorno, shows that what has been done has been wrong, namely spending money on bonuses instead of investing in jobs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u27	President Gentiloni, the priorities you have indicated in your report highlight the right will to give life to a government that does not only fulfil the fundamental function of accompanying Parliament to the adoption of an electoral law, which we believe must be harmonious between the House and the Senate, and must offer, unlike Italicum, a fair balance between representation and governability. You emphasized the will to give life to a Government that also assumes the responsibility to respond to the main emergencies of the country: from recent earthquakes, without forgetting even the less recent ones of Emilia and L'Aquila (whose consequences still persist, although, of course, with less drama), to the banks, on which you said very clear words. He has also committed himself to creating a government that fully represents us at international level. However, I would like to stress that the confidence that we will give you today is also for a Government from which we expect will and determination to set up new policies to deal with that social discomfort which, as a whole and especially with regard to young people, has undoubtedly been one of the protagonists of the referendum outcome. In this regard, I welcome the fact that in your reply to the House you expressed your willingness to put the question of work at the centre of the recovery. This will require your Government, not only to engage with greater determination in the construction of one of the weakest pillars in the implementation of the jobs act, i.e. active labour policies, taking into account the achieved adjustment of the institutional framework, but will also require clear words and policies on the quality of work. Ensuring quality of work means, first of all, stopping indiscriminate use of vouchers and other forms that cost little, in economic terms and guarantees, compared to permanent work. In other words, I am referring to forms of employment to which companies resort as loopholes in relation to a serious commitment to innovation, but which take away dignity from workers and confine, especially the younger generations, to intermittent, low-paid careers, with little contribution and condemning one in ten young people in our country to absolute poverty. I have not heard of poverty in your speech, while I expect from the new Government a renewed determination on the path that has just been taken towards the creation of a universal instrument to combat poverty of which, unique together with Greece throughout the European Union, our country is still lacking. Instead, we must overcome the fragmentation and temporary nature of interventions such as bonuses, little thought, poorly coordinated, which disperse in rain, with dubious effectiveness and certain iniquities, the scarce resources available for social policies. Unlocking and strengthening the delegation on poverty, but also other regulations that the very long referendum campaign has blocked (i.e. the law on ius soli), must be a joint and priority commitment of the Government together with Parliament. I expect special attention from your Commission on the health system: a universal system that must guarantee everyone the right to health. For this reason, Mr President, I expect an acceleration in the final approval of the new essential levels of assistance and a commitment from the Government to monitor its implementation throughout the national territory, as is its duty according to the constitutional dictation. I do not understand, Mr President, whether you have decided to entrust delegates on equal opportunities; yet, in a country where, as we remember every week here in the Senate, every 2.2 days a woman is killed by her partner or her ex, the issue deserves, indeed, all the attention of the Executive starting from the full and patient implementation of the plan against violence. The objective of growth, of inclusive growth, requires not only - as you have already mentioned - intransigence in the fight against organised crime, but also a constant garrison against corruption, clientelism and the defense of legality. The theme of tax evasion, of the contrast to the caporalate and to any other form of undeclared work, so closely connected with each other, can only be at the heart of the government's action to which we will give our trust. Last but not least, we ask your Government to start setting up real industrial policies, which do not rely solely on fiscal incentives, as weak as the demand, but are able to address the criticalities of our production system and give perspectives to our economic development. As you can see, Mr President, it is a demanding confidence that we give you today, but we are ready to support you in the effort we are asking for. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u28	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, I would like to express the appreciation of the Socialists for the effort they are making and for the efforts they are waiting for you and your Government. Executives who like 100 percent it is difficult to have them: Governments are like shirts made to measure at the moment, they tend to respond to the needs of the time, but sometimes they have some wrinkles. However, wrinkles, if not misplaced, can also have and give character. We appreciate your progress with regard to the debate which is mainly being held outside the Chambers, particularly by those who do not have a say in Parliament, but play, perhaps by changing their coats of arms, the game of owls and so-called owls. I agree with you on your constitutional arrangements. We must return to the respect of the written Constitution confirmed by the referendum on 4 December. Mr President, what has happened in recent weeks shows that you can quickly emerge from a government crisis and that you can quickly adopt important laws in the two chambers such as the budget, without eliminating the double approval of the House and Senate. In particular, the Senate, after the confirmation of the referendum, as well as being a millenarian institution, has proved to be a twenty-year-old able to quickly travel miles which, in other times, have been resolved over days. His ability to put verve and sense of responsibility back into the field is evident. I believe that we must ensure that you can work and that Parliament can work. In this regard, I do not know whether by God's will, whose existence I personally have some doubt, but by others whose existence I have great evidence, it is better to overcome the clip of these last months in anticipation of the great event that should have changed the season of our country. As a Parliament, we should deal with a number of issues that we have been talking about for some time and which directly concern our ability to move clearly and quickly. Mr President, I would like to ask for your kind attention on these measures. The measures start from the consideration that major reforms, at times, are small in relation to fatigue, but of great significance. As far as the prospect of this legislature is concerned, I remain faithful to the imperative of achieving as far as possible the rationalization and modernisation of the decision-making mechanism within the existing constitutional structure, without prejudice to the hope that the constitutional revision will be entrusted, if it is considered useful to proceed with changes, in a future legislature according to the shared and proportional method of the constituent assembly. From now until the end of the legislature we guarantee her support for the measures she announced and on which we fully agree, which concern the problems of the country, the earthquakes, the economic and banking crisis, the work and the creation of new opportunities for the new and old generations, the electoral law, which today is on everyone's lips, but which in the past was left out while we presented at the time we do not suspect a proposal that would recover the experience of the nineties and two thousand with the Mattarellum, with which we had experienced majorities of various types and on which we can make changes. However, it was a positive experiment. In this parliamentary term, there is the possibility of carrying out regulatory reforms - in this sense, I would say to those who were absent because some substantive changes could also be made through the Regulations and now it is time to amend these rules - to meet the requirements of the legislative process immediately. That is why, to the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, already put forward by us with Document II, No 19, to safeguard the country's governance needs, we added this morning a further contribution to the debate in order to achieve immediately a regime of rationalised parliamentaryism. For this reason, the institution of constructive mistrust is introduced by regulating the institution of constructive mistrust by safeguarding the powers of the Head of State, but at the same time by binding the senators to confirm in writing the name of the candidate Premier on whom they would trust, so as to alleviate also the effort of our President of the Republic, who has done well by giving the job to you, Mr President, but to whom those who are called to vote in this and in the other House I believe they should make an explicit contribution, without further mediation. The legislative procedure is streamlined with the ordinary prevalence of the writing site. The clearing house is valued in the negotiation of general administrative acts between the State and local self-governments, including through joint participations in the work of the issuing bodies of the respective executives: first, the State-Regions Conference. The accelerated effect, which has so far been guaranteed by the imposition of the question of trust, is permitted, with a better quota regime of time and with an emergency regime which concerns the handling of draft laws from the other House alone. The possibility of the Groups being volatile structures covering phenomena of parliamentary transformation is delimited. The discipline of the structure of the relationship between human and logistic resources and assets instrumental to the external norms is restored. This, Mr President, is because the autonomy of these Chambers must be in relation to the content of the laws and not to internal administrative procedures, which must be subject to the laws of the State. There is no extraterritoriality for anyone, not even these rooms. At least that's my point of view. The Council of President may be allowed to approve derogations of individual aspects and general rules of public employment, justified on a case-by-case basis for strictly functional parliamentary requirements and published immediately, in order to enable them to be implemented immediately. Beyond any self-declaration, strictly excluded, any judicial review is on the initiative of anyone with interest. As you can see, Mr President, there is work, not only for your Government, not only for this Parliament on the measures you consider appropriate, but also for an independent initiative by Parliament in relation to the issues that have been raised in the referendum debate and for which yes and no could not have a definitive and absolute response to one position rather than another. Common sense must lead to a collection of positive positions on both sides. As you have done, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, by recovering a presence of ministers, of authoritative colleagues, who have worked well in the previous period and who can continue to do their work well until the end of the parliamentary term or, as you said, respecting the Constitution, as long as Parliament's trust is there. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and Senator Olivero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u30	He is present in the Chamber to attend our work a representation of students of the Liceo Gymnasio Statale (Liceo Gymnasio Statale), Augustus of Rome. To them we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u31	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u32	Mr President, senators and senators, I have read carefully the text submitted by the President-in-Office of the Council, Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, and I have found words and objectives in it that I share; also, and above all, a style of sobriety, seriousness, but also of passion. The first word you used, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is responsibility. It proposes a government of responsibility, guarantor of the institutions. In this context, we must appreciate the speed with which President Mattarella acted: a speed that has been substantial and that has given those indispensable guarantees that Europe and the markets demanded, with the approval of the budget law and with a new Executive. Many have been the objectives achieved by the Renzi Government in recent years, including reforms implemented, less media, such as the one on the harmonization of public budgets and the overcoming of the Stability Pact; or as the approval of the update of the LEAs, after fifteen years of waiting, that will be fired by the Commission in the Senate today and that are the heart of the public health service. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There are ongoing reforms that, as far as possible, need to be brought to an end as soon as possible, such as the reform of public administration, criminal proceedings or measures such as cyberbullying. It will be a government that will face, for the time that will remain in office (i.e. until it has a majority that supports it), in full capacity the problems of the country. We deeply agree with the first objective that has been set: intervention in areas affected by the earthquake. However, I would also like to remind you of the recent flood in Piedmont and Liguria. The citizens and municipalities of these regions urgently await at least the declaration of the state of natural disaster and then the subsequent measures. More generally, the local authorities are waiting for the measures they were urging us to include in the second reading of the budget law that could not be implemented in the Senate. A possible decree for local authorities should address the issue of the Provinces, for which the process of transformation into a large-area entity had almost ended, with the completion of the redeployment of staff, but which after the referendum result returned to full institutional level. The issue of precarious employment centres in other sectors should also be addressed as soon as possible. I believe that the government's social commitment is very important: the economic crisis in recent years has affected citizens and families. The Renzi government's measures are bringing results, with major reversals in the trend of gross domestic product and jobs, but the population still perceives little of these results. Growing poverty and lack of work have led to hatred of institutions perceived as chaste. The poverty fund, established in 2016 and increased in the budget law for 2017, is strategic, but we know that poverty is resolved with more development and work. For this reason I find the Government's commitment to the realization of the great works, with the new extraordinary plan of industry 4.0 and with a new impetus of the green economy. However, let me remind you that it is important to encourage and unlock investment by local authorities, because small investments are easily contracted in a short time and with a spread throughout the territory. I very much appreciated the desire for a commitment to the Mezzogiorno. I turn to my friends who live in the South and do not see this beautiful land take off. Go, President, to these areas of Italy, as in areas affected by calamitous events, because they need to feel our closeness. Pending the electoral reform and the internal path of the parties towards the elections, I am sure that the government will do everything necessary for urgency, but not only; our young people cannot wait even a few months. Finally, good work, President, to you and to the whole government. Governing and building is difficult; it is easier to destroy. If we are the government's people and we are parliamentarians, sober in our behaviours, rigorous and capable of taking responsibility for the needs of the population, especially the weakest and most in difficulty, then the citizens will respect us and the institutions which are now giving us the honour and the burden of representing them. Finally, for me too, passion is political and, vice versa, politics is passion. I am sure that you will know, with your passion and your willingness, to dialogue with the members of the majority, but also with those of the opposition, for the good of Italy, of the women and men of our country, especially of the youngest and our children. We will support you loyally and with confidence. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u34	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, given the limited time I have been given, I will not dwell on the maximum systems and I will put some questions to you, to which your reply will be appreciated, but above all in your work as President of the Council. A first question concerns the debts of public administration: almost three years ago the previous President of the Council promised their payment by his name of 2014, i.e. 21 September. Every year, according to the calculations of Confiscatori, 3,000 companies fail, not because they are not able to work or because the market is adverse, but because, in the absence of payment of the debts of the public administration to them, they in turn fail to honor their own. The question is: for your name, Mr President, on 29 June, will you do what your predecessor did not do for his three previous names? Second question: three weeks ago Piedmont was hit by a serious flood, fortunately with very little damage to people (one victim, so we are saddened), but with serious material damage to many public and private structures. For the events of the government crisis there have already been at least two meetings of the Council of Ministers without the proclamation of the state of calamity. I hope that the next one will be the good one; the whole population is waiting for it and the previous intervention has also referred to this point. Third point. A Ministry that saw an important change at its summit is that of education. Our greeting goes to the new Minister Valeria Fedeli, as it was until yesterday our Vice President, and I therefore wish you good work also in this new task. But the question is: will the new Minister implement the bill he presented as a senator for the compulsory removal from school books of so-called gender stereotypes? And among these stereotypes is the stereotype, which is in nature, that children are children of a father and a mother. [[Applause from Senators Davico and Rizzotti]] , or will you inculcate the fact that they can arise from any kind of human aggregation, with all that this entails? Penultimate point. Will it change the lack of transparency on motorways so far? Will it be possible, after three years of my requests, including those of access under both the previous law and the law of Minister Madia, that I greet? It will be possible to have an answer on who gave ten years of concession of Brescia-Padova, why then this private company would sell it to a foreign company? It will be possible to know why Turin-Piacenza still does not see the invitation to renew its concession, which makes us lose at least one million a day, to the detriment of taxpayers and motorists? Will it be possible to have an answer on Asti-Cuneo, which is a worse unfinished than Salerno-Reggio Calabria? Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, since you have been Minister for Foreign Affairs until yesterday, I would like to ask you about your behaviour towards Israel and Iran: these two things cannot be separated because Iran has repeatedly promised to destroy the State of Israel. I count on the commitment you made after the unfortunate vote given to UNESCO denying the importance for both Jewish and Christian culture of the Temple Mount and recognizing only its importance for the Islamic world. On this point we expect him to live up to his commitment, although I do not understand why no person responsible has been identified. On the other hand, will this policy of incredible openness to Iran continue, which every day (even the day before yesterday through its Minister of Defence) reiterates its intention to destroy the State of Israel, and now, by widening sufficiently, also the Arab Gulf States not sufficiently deployed in their extremism? All these questions will obviously also depend on your attitude towards him. In any case, I wish you a good job in the interest of Italians and the future of our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u35	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u36	Mr President, Mr Gentiloni, we already wanted to tell you yesterday that we appreciated your most measured tones, that we hope they will really be a final point compared to the arrogance and boredom that unfortunately we have had to endure in all these months by your predecessor. But we would also like to say with great clarity - allow us - that there is really a gigantic distance, even sidereal, between this kinder tone and the concrete acts of these first hours: the composition of your Government, but also the substance of the things you said, that instead, in spite of the tones, are in total continuity with what happened in the past months and that unfortunately still contain a fundamental element that we really consider difficult to understand, that is, a total and absolute removal of what happened in these months and what happened in the urns on Sunday, December 4. Your story was that of those who did not want to see what was happening in the country, that is, how much the fault that for many years now has crossed the society of our country was widening in an increasingly resounding way. Not only that, but you did not want to see that there is an entire country, there is an entire generation now completely excluded, cut off from the basic choices that politics has made for too long. Exactly, in the composition of the government that you wanted to form, the so-called government photocopy, and in the main points of the program that you have actually presented you still do not want to see what is happening. And yet it didn't take long, President Gentiloni. It was enough, for example, to observe what happened in all these months when the President of the Council Matteo Renzi visited the various Italian cities: unfortunately for him, instead of finding the people to escort him, as he said, he found demonstrations, disputes, thousands of people who, from their point of view, tried to put in place an element of deep dissent with respect to the policies of the Government. The truth is, President, that you have made a total break with that world which, even for decades, has been the world of the left, of the progressives of this country. You have radically broken up with the world of work because you wanted to launch the jobs act and now three million workers have reminded you, signing the request for a referendum, how profound the break with that world has been. You have broken up with the world of school: read the percentages of electoral flows and you will see how many university students voted no to the constitutional referendum. They are even a higher percentage than the general one of the country. I really do not believe that it is enough simply to change a minister in the face of the damage that has unfortunately been produced. You have broken up with those who have tried for years to defend the territories in which they live, with the committees that have in vain told and said in these months that unblock Italy and your irresponsible behavior on the referendum on drills were also those element of rupture with the real country. You have also broken up with that world which also exists and which you have once again dramatically underestimated, even if you have lost it; the world that for years defended the Constitution of this country, which rejected the attempt to turn it upside down. You have also pursued demagogy, doing the worst thing you can do in these cases, because if there is a worse demagogy, President Gentiloni Silveri, of demagogy from below, it is demagogy from above, also because when you use some words then inevitably you end up at the ballot box. Today with this copied government that you wanted to put on the field you proved that you did not really understand what is happening in the country, nor what those 20 million are, just as if that vote had never been there. I do not even want to imagine what would have happened in Italy today if it had unfortunately won the yes, if despite the 20 million votes you pretend not to understand what deep discomfort in this country, how much the fault is spreading more and more and how much an ever greater piece, especially of the younger generations, does not feel represented by any of us. Yet it was you who charged that referendum vote with such a great and so strong political significance, and then it seems even surreal the composition of the government that you presented to us. You have promoted the main perpetrators of this disaster, those who even named the reform. Once again you have acted in total dystonia with the feeling of the country, you have done the opposite of trying to recover an element of sentimental connection that has dramatically been lost in these years. Mr President, while appreciating them - I insist - it is not really enough to change their tones. It would take a radical change in your narrative. It would take a radical change in understanding what has happened in recent years in the social bodies of our country. That is what last week's referendum told you. That's what the almost 20 million didn't tell you. Since discontinuity, which would have served a great deal, is hardly visible on the horizon, we in the Italian Left have said from the very first hours following the referendum what we are going to say now: of course no confidence, on the contrary, let the electoral law be done as soon as possible and let the citizens, the sovereign people, speak back. And above all it is done with an electoral law that finally marks the word end with respect to the laws that have been there in recent years, that have made sure that the votes in this country were not all the same. Set up, President Gentiloni Silveri, first of all a table that goes beyond the majority, because electoral law is the problem of the whole Parliament, and not simply of the majority of the government. I think I can say that the message of the 19 and a half million not on this point is very clear: the rules are not made by majority - he said that vote - and for a profit of shop, but they are made primarily for the interest of the country. It is, Mr President, a lesson that applies to everyone, to the Government, to the parliamentary majority, but also to the opposition. I also address my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, who with us filed the appeal against Italicum a few months ago: it is wrong to think immediately after the vote that what was wrong yesterday can be good today simply for an interest in shop. Once you finally put yourself first and first, our country, which really needs it. [[Applause from the Mixed Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u37	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u38	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: finally. It took more than two and a half years for the political class to understand that it was supported by Matteo Renzi's inadequacy to carry out that task which you represent today in this House and for which you are preparing to ask for trust. Seeing you here today, Mr President, is a comfort to me, which comes from the awareness that at last - I use a popular jargon - the creance returns to the highest rank of government. We know your kindness, Mr President, your willingness to dialogue and confrontation, your respect for the reasons of others. Believe me, after years of abuse, coercion, angeries, arrogance and rudeness, returning to the normal dialectical confrontation between Government and Parliament is already a result. If that were the only reason, I wouldn't hesitate to trust her. But we know that's not what this is about. Unfortunately, you have inherited the legacy of two years of institutional delirium, two years in which rules, regulations, rights, relationships, reason and common sense have been trampled on. This is the gruesome data of the much-sacrificed Venetian demolition. And you are not surprised at the climate we are living in, Mr President. I have had the opportunity to warn this House - the ignovia of which has allowed Dr Renzi to maramaldise between and in the institutions - that, when the regulations are trampled on, when the spaces and roles of the opposition are mortified, when the political opponent is mocked at the reasons of others, becomes the enemy. And if the political opponent becomes the enemy, a furrow has been dug so that resuming dialogue becomes an arduous undertaking. I therefore appreciate your courage to take up this legacy. Know, then, that we will not add ourselves to the choir of those who claim that you represent the fourth unelected President; it would be like denying ourselves after the recent, fascinating and laborious referendum on the Constitution. But having said that, we are well aware that the Italians, as well as the safeguarding of the Constitution, have strongly impressed in their vote a message of distrust in the Government and - if I may add a further subtle consideration - also a general sense of distrust, sent a little to everyone, so that a greater sense of responsibility can be restored. Here, Mr President, Italy wants a responsible political class. To do this, then, we must recover seriousness and truth. And, in order to recover seriousness and truth, it is necessary to set an example. Mr. President, we got off to a bad start here, then. To point out as Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alfano is certainly not an example of seriousness, unless the management of the Shalabayeva case and of the many other cases that have dotted the mandate to the Ministry of the Interior of two and a half years are grounds for jubilation, rather than repressing. Still, seeing Senator Finocchiaro swear on the Constitution, in fulfilling her appointment as Minister, is not a great example of truth. I lived it almost as the worst institutional blasphemy. These are two small examples of shape. I avoid talking about the appointment to the new Undersecretary Boschi: I keep silent, having had the same much more news than his mediocre history deserved. In essence, Mr President, you represent today the real emergencies of the country, which are the economy, the work, the South - finally the South - and immigration. These emergencies, forgotten in the previous two and a half years, have unfortunately turned into an emergency. And, even if we recognize the new electoral law as a priority objective, know that if you are able to restore the correct and respectful institutional relationship between the Government and Parliament (i.e. if you will avoid expelling our legislative function and direction, flooding us with decree-laws) and if you call the majority that supports you to greater respect for the demands of the oppositions we will be available to our contribution of ideas and confrontation, while remaining firm our role of opposition. [[Applause from Senators Comrade, Rizzotti and Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u39	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u40	Mr President, through you I address directly to the President-in-Office of the Council and the Minister of Education, Faithful, who is not here now. In particular, I would like to address the latter, because I will deal with a single subject in my speech. In fact, Senator Fedeli is the first signatory - I want to be precise - to the bill n. 1680, "Introduction of gender education and gender perspective in the activities and teaching materials of schools of the national education system and universities," with an appropriation - heard, heard - of 200 million euros. The law presented by Senator Fedeli provides for 200 million euros to carry out gender activity in schools. And what is the purpose of this provision? In this case, too, I read directly, because we understand ourselves: to make compulsory the plans of the educational offer of schools of every order and grade - then we start from the nursery schools - by adopting educational measures aimed at promoting changes in behavioural models in order to eliminate stereotypes, prejudices, customs, traditions and other socio-cultural practices based on the differentiation of people according to the sex of belonging to them. I quote, for example, the maternal instinct, which naturally does not exist and is a superstructure of politics. Hence, they must be educated from childhood to eliminate such stereotypes. Of course, his appointment caused great concern in the families, but also the enthusiastic applause of the circle "Mario Mieli." And I say once again in this House that the circle "Mario Mieli" is dedicated to a well-known supporter of paedophilia, to a cantor of paedophilia. In vain, we asked that the Renzi Government interrupt its relations with this circle, registered to a well-known pedophile: we hope that the new government will decide to do so. We have repeatedly denounced, cards in hand, the attempt to ideological colonization of the public school and have repeatedly affirmed, together with millions of Italians in the squares of the family day: "Down with the children." And I repeat in the Senate: "Down with the children." [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I address today, in the Chamber of the Senate, the new Minister so that he dismisses his plans as a minister when he was a senator. Otherwise, it is clear that our protest and political initiative will be very hard in Parliament and also in the country. And I believe that, after what happened at the referendum, which saw 60% of the votes against what had been supported with sycumera and arrogance here, challenging everyone to confront the country, also the certainties about the progressive fate - I also address to Minister Costa - through which we gave ourselves the material we collected, distributed by the government, explaining to four-year-olds that two male penguins make the egg, that is, that two men generate children, and this terrible form of indoctrination are finally put aside. As far as I am concerned, it is clear that this is one more reason to vote for the distrust of this Government, in which I must say, without calling names because it is always uncomfortable, too many Ministers and Undersecretaries, such as liars and word forgers (so Dante defines them in the 30th Song of Hell), pretend not to remember, even if they remind him of television programs, their statements made on social media: in the event of a victory of the "no" in the referendum, they would have responsibly withdrawn to private life. And now, instead, we find them sitting again at the government desks. [[Applause from Senators Compagna, Ferrara Mario and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u41	Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u42	Mr President, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth reminding everyone, and also those who have supported other arguments outside and within Parliament, that we are in a parliamentary Republic and that governments are formed with the trusted votes obtained in Parliament and last as long as they maintain it. This concept and principle is reinforced by the referendary result which, in some respects, has strongly embossed the hyper-majoritarian drives and changes in the relations between the Government and Parliament. We want to deny those among the political and social forces representative of our country demagogically declare that the new Government is illegitimate because it is not elected by the citizens. President Mattarella has worked with sagacia and expertise, and above all in full respect of the constitutional rules and prerogatives proper to his function, starting the right path indicated by our Constitution, overcoming in fast times a crisis that would not have allowed us to continue to work on urgent issues, political, social and economic and honor the supranational appointments scheduled, thus resolving with a high sense of responsibility, at a difficult time in our country, one of the shortest crises of Government in the history of our Republic. The request to go to the vote immediately is nonsense, inconceivable and harmful for our country, because in order to ensure the governability of the next legislature it is necessary to work in Parliament to arrive, with the help of all the parliamentary groups, at an electoral law that harmonizes the two systems of Chamber and Senate. And it is also necessary for the new Government to address the other emergencies highlighted by President Mattarella, which concern social and economic issues and European and international commitments. President Gentiloni Silveri himself, in his programmatic statements to Parliament, stressed the urgency of giving Italy a Government in full power, to reassure the citizens and to address with maximum commitment and determination the international, economic and social priorities, starting with the reconstruction of the areas affected by the earthquake. Our sharing in the path followed by the President of the Republic and his choices, and therefore the support to the government Gentiloni Silveri, is the result of such assessments, that is to put immediately hand to the \'work in progress of the Country, continuing to work and respecting scheduled and indifferent commitments and deadlines, without wasting the work carried out by the Government past and without wasting any more time. Tempus edax rerum said the Romans: time devours everything, and this is the risk that we could not take, that we cannot run and that we do not want to run. The new government finds itself a country, a society and a split economy, characterized by rapidly growing inequalities and a recovery that is still too weak. These are the differences between high and low incomes, between young and old generations, between productive sectors and geographical areas. The new Executive will have to indicate a serious path by finding solutions and recipes for this great social issue: one in four Italians reaches the poverty line and in the Mezzogiorno the figure is even more serious. These are elements that put social cohesion at risk, causing disruptions and divisions in depth to our country. It is the sign of a society that is losing its national and generational ties, especially young people and the whole of the South who feel abandoned. This part of the country, even through the referendum, shouted loudly that it does not succeed and does not see light beyond the darkness of the present. The new Government will not be able to escape the need to give an effective, concrete and tangible response to this great malaise immediately. The social crisis is more serious than the economic crisis. Getting out of the recession doesn't mean the crisis is over. The crisis has led to an increase in the number of families in absolute poverty. Various policies are needed to address this emergency, active labour policies, support for the cost of children and specific instruments to combat poverty. The first challenge of this Government - and I believe that the creation of the Ministry for Cohesion and Development of the Mezzogiorno has this primary aim - must be to reduce inequalities substantially and to prevent the persistence of poverty from growing and consolidating. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the new government, however, will first have to work on the earthquake emergency and Parliament on the new electoral law. That of the earthquake is a clear priority that cannot have political color or undergo palace logic. After the earthquake of Central Italy there are in fact more than 16,000 people assisted by Civil Protection in temporary accommodations, people who are urgent to have a stable accommodation. Still in the midst of an emergency, a long political crisis would certainly not have helped the people of Central Italy, who instead need urgent interventions from the Government that can only come with political stability. We now come to the other issue which is a priority: the reform of the electoral law. We are faced with the most urgent political deadline on Parliament's agenda. We currently have two different systems, one for the Chamber (the Italicum) and one for the Senate (the Consultellum). On 24 January the Council will have to express its views on the constitutionality of Italicum. If it is possible and perhaps even possible to reject some of its parts, Parliament will have to work to have an electoral law. The position of some political forces who are calling for elections with the electoral laws in force is therefore irresponsible, because - as the constitutionalist Ainis reminds us - we would have a schizophrenic system with opposite results in the two legislative chambers, which would lead to the "carneval of democracy." Another priority of the new Executive will be to develop a policy to support the banking system. The new government will have to face the boiling potato of the possible public role in the rescue of Mount Paschi, which would certainly not have light consequences on the state budget. The problem of Monte Paschi must be tackled immediately because, among other things, there is a risk of a domino effect between the various national credit institutions. And while the Italian banking system is basically sound, this solidity must be safeguarded with guidelines for subsequent interventions that are hoped not necessary. Finally, the new government has important political and economic events on its agenda both in Europe and internationally. The Council of Europe, the latest in 2016, will meet in Brussels tomorrow. At the centre of the talks will be the very serious problem of migrants, who have been left everything on the shoulders of Italy, and in particular the new rules on the right of asylum. This is a fundamental event for Italy to recall Europe to its commitments on the redistribution of migrants. Another important event will be what next 20 March will see in Rome the European celebrations of the 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome. Finally, since January for twelve months Italy will have the Presidency of the G7, whose most important meeting will take place between 26 and 27 May 2017 in Italy in Taormina, an event that will put our country at the center of the world's spotlight and will influence our economic order. It seems superfluous to recall that, at such appointments, Italy must be ready and with a well-defined government, legitimate and that it operates in the full capacity of its functions. Having said that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also end my speech on behalf of the People's Area Group by declaring that, in line with what has been the position taken in this legislature to ensure the ruleability of the country and once again giving evidence of responsibility, we will express confidence to the new Government led by President Paolo Gentiloni Silveri. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u43	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u44	Mr President, there are many concerns about this Government that could be highlighted, starting from the lack of discontinuity with the previous Government regarding substitutions and movements. I believe that we need to take a step forward in the assessment of all this, because political responsibility must be at the forefront at the moment, which requires a focus on content and clarity on prospects. Its human trait, even before political, and its personal history, Mr President of the Council, I believe can offer a profile of reliability and guarantee for international challenges and urgent issues and emergencies within the country. This is not the time for special effects and slogans, nor is it the time for empty benches: it is the time for participation. Propaganda in the long run gets tired and boring. On the other hand, I hope that the Government, given as a provisional and expiry date - but we know that all provisional things last longer than expected - will become an example of quality in reasoning, concreteness and detail in the proposal. As a Marche, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - if you listen to me, I can appreciate it even more - I believe that you reflect and interpret well the spirit of the Marche, of my land, of silent actions, of active moderation, of values that are not shouted. It is a mentis form and a modus operandi that acquire strategic value at a time when post-sysmic reconstruction is central. I very much appreciated that you put in the first place the reconstruction of the territories affected by the earthquake, in the perspective of that project called Casa Italia, which can push us to review the situation of our country, so as not to always run after emergencies, but to do prevention. Days ago, on Marche Day, he gave a prize to Zamberletti. He, founder of modern Italian Civil Protection, reminded us that there is an emergency, but there is also prevention. I would like to work on this table and to have a whole series of other speeches crossed, which is why I have promoted a parliamentary Intergroup, Mr President, which has already gathered Members and more than thirty senators, to discuss the problems of the earthquake and to be close to the citizens. It is important that there are not formulas, but content, that they are a synthesis of much. She knows our territory and its masterpieces, the great works of art often hidden in remote villages. I refer - for example - to the anonymous master of Tolentino, artist of the frescoes of the Cappellone of the Basilica of San Nicola da Tolentino. In Tolentino there is so much made in Italy anonymous, but there are also great international signatures and some companies, a model that has always opened their factories, which have become kindergartens, reception centers and support for third parties. These are good examples to shout to the whole world, because from there we can start again to create an economy and an industry that are 4.0 and green and enhance the territory, understood as a large European park, environmental and spiritual, where there are history and economy and where respect for the environment does not become a living room topic. The best way to respect the environment is to interpret and know it. President Renzi, when he installed himself, right here in the Senate, said he wanted to change direction, to go in the right direction. I think the intentions were right, but the first step was wrong. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have taken a fair step towards entry - and I see a change of method as well - because you have left the duration of this government and the stability of the institutions to our dialectic. How can a Government be responsible and autonomous at the same time? Article 72 of the Constitution requires that the normal procedure of examination and direct approval by the House is always adopted for the constitutional and electoral drafts. It was a serious mistake to forget that there are constitutionally protected subjects from an assembly reserve, as in the case of the electoral law, approved only because the government has put trust several times. But the knots get to the comb sooner or later. Governance and accountability are needed. When the Constitutional Court does not correct constitutional violations, then it is the popular vote that puts the sanatoria, as happened in the last referendum, when the Italian people demonstrated a certain, natural political intelligence that obviously caught what goes but also what does not go in the current political system. There are many changes that need to be made to make things work. I greatly appreciated your reference to VAT consignments and your speech to the banks. Well, that assistance to banks is not the treatment of a sick person who has not been treated when it was time and who has not been prevented from becoming ill. Let me give a concrete example: if every session of those provincial councils - I mean the Montepaschi - is given a token of presence of 800-1,000 euros, then there is that the resources of the banks do not finance what can be development and credit to the country, but they repay costs attributed to the citizens, who do not gain but a surplus of expenditure, often with costs of refugee. Those who fail, therefore, pay pledge and the bank returns to its service. From this point of view restructuring also means a turning point, with a separation of political power that, at a certain point, must let the bank do, because otherwise we will never get out of mechanisms that virtuous are not. I was a candidate here as a citizen and I set out to assess the concrete aspects. I have always gone more or less to the themes and contents of the measures. My confidence in this Government - the advance - despite the perplexities, wants to be a bridge of trust in response to the many barriers, to the many walls that prevent the parliamentary dialectic from developing and deepening the speeches in a reasonable, conscious, contiguent way, and an invitation to the Government to do what an Executive should always do, that is, the synthesis of what emerges from a parliamentary debate, where the demands of all must be represented. I hope that this is above all the synthesis of the will of the citizens that we all, in different ways, and with different groups, represent here. [[Applause from the Misto-Idv Group and Senator Puppato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u45	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u46	Mr President, this is a difficult, politically complicated legislature, where high moments of institutional responsibility have unfortunately mixed with the most censorable selfish old and new political staff. We have respect for our people. We have defended your sovereignty in this House and in the country. That is why we do not accept and will never accept practices of destructuring our democratic and constitutional system, neither obvious nor disguised. We have always chosen the democratic and progressive area as the basis for our political initiative. In this sense, let us make our own the Head of State's concern for Parliament to act as a priority for the security of the country and our communities. There are too many unheard of sufferings, the life difficulties of people in the internal territories, in our Mezzogiorno and in the islands. From this widespread unease are nourished movements, dangerous nostalgic practices, real risks for democracy, for the good of the workers and their families. We are people who have roots, who represent real women and men, in the flesh; we are not a television image or a telematic chance. That is why we strongly oppose the idea that aims to distort the values of solidarity, equality, participation and autonomy that are enshrined in Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the Constitution. Mr President, we could have profited from the political positions legitimately supported in these years of opposition, sat down among those who shout victory and answered no to the call of responsibility and sharing. And instead, we are considering, reflecting on the value of our vote, that it would be against current and non-conformist. We are considering how much it could result in the triggering of the necessary revitalization of the progressive field, interpreted not as a sterile extension of the history of the Italian left, but as a shared space for the construction of a safe future, of better living conditions, of more social justice. We will therefore listen carefully to your reply. To this Government, which has the obligation to lead the country to the vote with a constitutionally legitimate electoral law, in condition of democratic security, we ask for a real, concrete and measurable commitment to the inner areas and the discomfort, the Mezzogiorno, acute unemployment and the right to ransom in development. For the islands, and in particular for Sardinia, we call for recognition of their island status, the definition of a new aid scheme in line with the provisions applicable to the outermost European regions. We call for the same rights to be recognised to all minorities, for the ratification of the Convention on Minority Languages, for true equality between national communities that constitute our society. On these issues, Mr President, we will listen carefully to your reply. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u48	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this debate is primarily addressed to political forces rather than to a government that is in the wake of the previous one, on which we have already made very harsh judgments during three years of harsh debates. Ladies and gentlemen of the so-called majority, was there a referendum on 4 December? Has your ship brazenly led by the former President gone or has not gone to fight against an iceberg of resounding proportions and that above all, contrary to climatic conditions, was much more consistent in the South than in the North of the country? Did you realize this or - as happened in the past, when a big ship crashed into the iceberg - do you keep playing the same music, not realizing that your ship is sinking? You threw it into music, it's true: the outgoing President of the Council referred to the thousand days of Baglioni, the incoming President at "If tonight I am here in Tenco and you to the music of the Titanic sinking as you continue to strampell not realizing - or rather - wanting to try not to realize what happened to you. The subject of taxes, the reduction of tax pressure, and the issue of the Mezzogiorno, has disappeared completely in the clear programmatic statements of the new President, and it appears timidly that of the Mezzogiorno, perhaps because precisely from that area of the country came the most resounding no to the Government through the only possibility of expressing itself that citizens have had in recent years, namely the referendum on reforms. The issue of reforms disappears when perhaps it was necessary to take note of the absolute negativity of the constitutional reform imagined by this majority. In fact, I don't want to believe anyone who throws all the blame on the government, thinking that they can wash their conscience from the opposition benches. You voted for this reform which the Government strongly supported and which the Italian people rejected. The issue of reforms has disappeared when it could be resumed immediately, because we would like it to be done through a constitutional law that, at the next part-session, allows the Italians to elect a new constituent Assembly together with the new Parliament, thus definitively sanctioning the fact that parliaments, especially with majority prizes, are not fit to make extensive reforms of the Constitution. Instead, we need a separate Assembly that can reason in terms of proportional and absolute representation of all the experiences and political sensibilities of the country. On the elements of discontinuity, I don't want to throw it into de minimis, but it's all de minimis in the new government. The elements of discontinuity are a President-in-Office of the Council who does not come here to speak with his hands in his pocket and does not throw anathemas at the Senate, because he may have realized that throwing them does not bring good; a President-in-Office of the Council who does not love social media, like me, but sometimes they have to be read. If he read the social media of the days immediately following the formation of his Government, he would realize that the country is increasingly distant from your majority and also from the composition of this Government. And if they read the social media also the friends of the New Right Center, they would realize how they are definitely passing through a ford: they transit from a right that is not right anymore appears in their symbol to a left in which they are directly integrated. And it is precisely to them that I wish to address the last reflection. You may not realize this, but this is your last chance to say that you are not integrated into the left of the country. First there was the Monti Government with the broad understandings shared; then there was the Letta Government and the sense of responsibility; then there was the Renzi Government, in order to adhere to which you brought out the excuse of the reforms that had to be carried out. Therefore, your ever-calling sense of responsibility - it seems to me that this is a responsibility of the armchairs rather than of the country - has led you to support the reforms. Now that the Italians have rejected the reform I wonder what is the excuse you have not to declare yourself directly organic in the center-left. The strong discrimination that Italians see politically in this change of government, as far as we are concerned, lies precisely in your definitive transition to the center-left. In the next election you cannot think that the political framework is rewritten and rebuilt because you will consecrate it in a few hours giving confidence to a government that is center-left. And I can't blame you for that, because they were elected by the center-left voters, but you who go left weren't elected by the same voters. This represents the final discrimination. There is no point in calling for an electoral law that allows for stability of government, because you are the clear expression that the stability of governments depends not on electoral laws, but on the conscience of individual parliamentarians as long as the freedom of mandate enshrined in the Constitution exists, as will exist for the next legislature. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We can invent all the majority prizes in this world - we have seen Bulgarian majorities in this Parliament - but the revolts that are being made here, like the one that will give life to the new government, lie in the conscience of individual parliamentarians and, unfortunately, are free from the popular will. One thing is certain: the popular will these days is clear and clear. It was expressed above all to the South of the country with more than 70 percent of no, which are a mixture of rejection of a badly written reform, badly done and illegible for those who read it, and a sound rejection of a Government that has forgotten large social layers of the country, large territories of the country and that has condemned - as Senator Uras referred to Sardinia, allow me to make a brief mention of my Sicily - Sicily to a Government that is destroying it definitively. More than that, the combination between regional and national government is definitively canceling the hope of real progress and economic development. Think, Mr President, about this too. Above all, it reflects the majority who support it: to continue to support a government like that which is currently managing Sicily, it means to want to hurt the Sicilians and, politically, to hurt yourself and you have realized - I hope - with the result of the referendum. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u49	Senator Tarquinio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u50	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have a difficult and difficult task. First of all, I would like to thank you for being here and for watching us and listening to us from time to time. If he always listened, he would do better, because he is a distinction from the one who preceded him, who was arrogant, offensive and not at all communicating. You have a very serious task: you must reconcile a government with a parliament; you must reconcile a government, and together Parliament, with the country. We have, in fact, witnessed years of rupture, years of imposition, years of disruption of regulations, including parliamentary, forced and spotted, one after the other. Something incredible, which should lead everyone to reason and to say that the forcings that have taken place in recent years must not become the rule in the next legislature. The conscience of each one of us, by majority and opposition, should lead to bringing Parliament seriously back to the centre of everything, and this begins with the respect of a President of the Council, who is here, who occasionally looks at us and listens to the last of us, who if anything is me, and who, if anything, says something in a possible reply. This never happened: there were those who came here, they made the catwalk and then disappeared; there are those who serenely came here and even said that that was the last time that he would come to this House, with a contempt that he has of the incredible, a pretense of absurd destruction, with an animosity towards one of the two Chambers that he has of the incredible. And then he did some crazy reforms. Reforms made to make them, like that of the Provinces and I would like to say to Mr Delrio, who is here, that it would be time for him to block the voting procedures still in progress. You have to reason. Let us go back a little bit, because that of the Province is another spot reform, such as constitutional reform, on which we have tried to dialogue in every way and the answer has always been no, as on every subject. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Calderoli]] Is it ever possible, President Gentiloni Silveri, to live a parliamentary experience of Government always saying no to the middle of the country on any subject, never willing to accept anything? This is the main task you have and if you succeed in doing so you will do good to yourself, to your majority and to the country and will do the good of this parliamentary Republic that it is not. Some people dream of a dictatorial democracy: this is the real fact and the reform of Italicum also led to this. Do we have the courage to say that we are a parliamentary republic? Do all Members have the intellectual honesty to reject what is absurd by having the courage not to say yes in order to maintain a chair? Do you have the courage to be consistent? You must listen, President Gentiloni Silveri. Don't act like President Renzi on his phone. I say this with serenity, because that is a sign of respect, not towards me, but towards this House and what it means and that is what we will judge it, because it is all to be done again. We shall vote against this confidence. We have always been consistent: we have emerged from a political force because of constitutional reform and Italicum, with our bare hands. We have not negotiated anything with anyone, for consistency and dignity that belong to the role of a Member of Parliament. That's the real thing. I belong to the so-called old politics and God wanted it to return to the politics of fifty years ago and the men of that era, their cultural character and their respect for these classrooms. This is his main task: to tell the whole country - everything! - to come back to trust. Let us stop deluding here, in the newspapers and everywhere, the elected ones anyway by the people. Let's get this over with. Let us not lend ourselves, all of us, to the continual desolation of institutions, without realizing that this is how we destroy everything. It is up to the Government, it is up to its seriousness, it is up to what you will do and propose, if all this is recovered. Until then we will be here to stimulate, to make the opposition that belongs to us, in harsh political terms, but never offensive to anyone, ready to support the right things, that we have not yet seen: on all the arguments we are willing to reason. Then, sincerely, President, some of the figures in the government could be spared. They are figures who have been as arrogant as the former President of the Council and are now here. I hope they don't have very delicate tasks. I say here: let's be careful who we delegate to the Services. Let us beware of those who sow hatred and of those who reason in terms of: "What I say is right, and what others say is foolish." We defend the concept of democracy and dialogue. The first thing is to respect the ideas and proposals of others, and then to get to the true synthesis: this is democracy, this is respect for the House. If this happens, on the right things we can cooperate, otherwise our opposition will be hard and true for the good of this House, for this parliamentary Republic, which is no longer there, and against an authoritarian drift that we are not willing to accept from anyone, whether from the right or from the left. On this the Conservatives and Reformists will merge their battle and pursue it. [[Applause from the CoR, FI-PdL XVII and LAG groups (GS, PpI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u52	Mr President, as should be done when we begin, we should read the appeal, with those present and absent. It is certainly regrettable that Senator Finocchiaro, a new minister for reforms and relations with Parliament, is not present today, also for the role she herself has decided to play in this Government; it is regrettable that there is no longer Minister Costa, that there is no Minister for Sport Lotti, who is obviously engaged outside to negotiate the posts of Undersecretary. Sorry he didn't even show up for Foreign Minister Alfano. Foreign Minister Alfano: yes, because after he has devastated the interior, we now find him also in foreign countries. I am sorry that there is no Minister for Justice Orlando; I regret that he did not even set foot in the Chamber this morning, Mr Padoan, not to mention the Minister for Economic Development Calenda. He came fleetingly and immediately left Minister Martina, neither did Minister Galletti, Minister Delrio went in and out, the Minister of Labour Poletti did not arrive, the Minister of Cultural Heritage arrived a while ago, but now he has already disappeared. And certainly the State Secretary is missing from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers Maria Elena Boschi. Where's your Undersecretary, President? Did he not have the courage to return to this House, where the last time he set foot on it was to ask for a trust he gained in order to resign? This is the real paradox that holds this government! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] Today you represent essentially a photocopy of the Renzi Government: a government that, as well known, was built in the secret rooms of the Nazarene, with a distrust given to the previous Government, never expressed in Parliament but managed directly in the political secretariat of the PD. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] This is the true figure that now leads the politics of the Italian Government of the last three years: everything happens within the PD, in this perennial, devastating, nasty congress, always in progress, with the internal diatribes that you then download on the country. You see, President, you would have had the opportunity to demonstrate, even for your history and personality, a discontinuity. I recognise one difference: at least, compared to your predecessor, you do not take coffee in this House, but the attention that would deserve any intervention that takes place here in this House I see that you are still missing. MIRABELLI (PD). Senator Comrade's fault. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We would have expected discontinuity, Mr President, because if a lesson had to be learned from the outcome of the referendum it was the 20 million citizens who said no. They said no to the arrogance of the President of the Council of Ministers Renzi, but they said no explicitly to the policies of the Renzi Government, to the group of ministers that constituted that Government and that led the Italians to lose confidence and say no in a dry way to policies that have deceived on the job, creating instead subdiction of workers with vouchers, to policies that have deceived on the school simply creating a great confusion, to policies that would have had the claim to reform the public administration, actually producing only a page - I say badly, Senator Calderoli? - because, perhaps, only the digital code remained alive with that reform, since it was declared unconstitutional. Under the ax of the Constitutional Court there is also the so-called reform of popular banks, because when you put your hand in the banking system, you did it to protect friends and lenders or did it to undo, where it worked, the credit to small savers. Today the Constitutional Court will judge your work and this time too, unfortunately, we know that we have lost yet another opportunity of seriousness. You lost her. I ask you, where is the seriousness, when you go to appoint Alfano as Minister of Foreign Affairs, a minister who abroad I do not know how it can represent worthyly a country that has not been able to defend inside. Here comes Minister Alfano, he has arrived at the right time. Minister Alfano, sit down, there's some for you too, don't feel sorry for yourself. And maybe take some English lessons, because the last time he gave some examples, he didn't go on the chronicles with applause, but with a lot of irony, unfortunately. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] We expect a government that instead goes to defend the interests of the country in Europe, that is not bent with respect to the interests of Germany, that is not bent with respect to the multinational interests that are ventuating on our country, as we see in these hours, using the financial system as leverage to acquire and to enter heavily in our country. You have charged a heavy price, with the contradictions, hypocrisies and falsehoods of Renzi and those of the Democratic Party, an already too high price until yesterday, but from today even higher. We need elections. We do not need elections for an affair, but because the country cannot afford ten, twelve or fifteen months of constant, exhausting electoral campaign, with choices made not because of the needs of the country, but because of the tensions that within the PD will develop or will have to be managed and diluted with the allies that you will find in this or in the other Chamber, depending on the conveniences. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] This is not what the country needs. The country needs the stability of a government that is finally an expression of a popular will, which finally comes from a majority elected by the people, not from a majority bought with the undersecretary in Parliament, because this would be yet another slap given to the citizens. We don't know how long the government will last. You, President Gentiloni Silveri, declared yesterday that it will last as long as there is trust. There are certainly some stumbling blocks on the path of the government that I believe will mark in a mortal way this path and I am not referring to the interest of the citizens, which would be to go to vote tomorrow morning, but to the referendum on jobs act and vouchers, which awaits you at the trial in June. That will really be a test with which you will again realize how far the country is from what you described via tweet or with slides at the beginning of the legislature. In this government ministers of faithful Renzian belief continue to sit, who instead of facing the problems of the country believed that to govern enough to deceive the people with false reforms, strong of the swindling consent of a corporate establishment that represents at best only himself; a courtesan consensus that we saw during the electoral campaign for the referendum, expressed and supported by opinion leaders such as the president of Confindustria, that of Coldiretti or other unions: representatives of a leadership unable to undertake and understand today the problems of the real country, far from the problems of work but careful to cement relationships of personal power. This is a government, as effectively noted yesterday by Massimo Franco on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) whose level of loyalty to Renzi is all too demonstrated by the Ministers' confirmations: as has been abundantly said, a bad photocopy of the previous Executive. We would like to have you before us, instead, as a government that is based on a majority legitimized by the popular vote, a vote that you betrayed, as you betrayed in the thousand days you spent to cure first the slides, then the tweets and then the communication with the communicators assumed from overseas. The problems we would like to talk about are those of a country where 40% of young people remain unemployed, where, President, 100,000 young people left abroad last year, hoping to find that job that their country denies them at home. A country in which the Government is active in a devastating system that, behind the word "welcome" is seeking business with a turnover of four billion, filling the countries of illegal immigrants who, when it's okay, prove to be cheap labour in black and when it goes wrong are labour of crime. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] Renzi was the same one who had to go on a pilgrimage to the sanctuary if he had not paid the debts of the public administration by September 21, 2014, St. Matthew's day. "All the debts of the public administration," he said, "or I will go on a pilgrimage on foot." We know that he has not kept that commitment, as he has been well watched from moving away from politics as he had repeatedly stated if he had lost the referendum. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] The same has been done by her trusted Maria Elena Boschi, today the new undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, from which all the appointments in the bodies participated by the State in the coming months will pass, from which will pass all the fundamental choices and also the dossiers that concern the banks, and I think of the great scandal of Monte dei Paschi, that you have held to face after the referendum. This was the logic that marked the work of the Renzi Government for which you still assume responsibility today, confirming those people in key roles: to take the Italians around. It was not enough for you to understand that the result of the referendum says that people want democracy, they want to choose, they want to decide. People are sick of a government telling them: In the Provinces we change our name, we remove the elections, then we take care of politics to manage them. People want to choose, people said so by rejecting your constitutional reform. People don't want rules of supremacy that say the government decides for everyone. People want to count, people want to count. Understand this lesson and go to the vote quickly, giving electoral strength back to the citizens. Let them decide the government's programme, not be the interests of those who sit on the ministers' benches. You've bypassed the electoral consensus too many times, thinking you're gonna make a fool of it. President, this is a torn country, it is a country that you have torn with the electoral campaign, it is a country that you have divided by ranking for good those who voted yes and for bad those who voted no, that you have called owls, retrogrades, armchairs, just because on the other side there was an arrogant President of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] In the few months that we hope will last this Government, make at least this effort: be the opposite of Renzi, abandon that arrogance that characterized the Renzi Government, because that arrogance was rejected by 20 million citizens. In his request to lower his tones, first of all address these indications to his political secretary, who - I repeat - divided the country between good and bad at a time when, when talking about the Constitution, it would instead have been a duty of a statesman to unite the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u53	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u54	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Why, Mr President, are we still afraid that there will be a great deal of deception with regard to electoral law and the willingness to go to the polls quickly? Because you have shown this in the past: the electoral law that is in force today, the Italicum, you have built it here and in the House with the baton, imposing it in this House at 7 am on 23 December, after a whole night to discuss finance. [[Applause from Senators Calderoli and Volpi]] You approved it in here by imposing trust on the government. That was the arrogance you showed. We say a very simple thing, President Grasso: sovereignty belongs to the people! And we're gonna yell at him loudly in all the squares, until the elections are effective. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You also continue to tremble and plot behind the people, thinking that no one is aware of it; but he is aware of it, indeed. Continue to protect the lobby and those who fund you. We, the League, will remain in the squares, we will remain among the people, we will remain in the countries, big or small, where people want to choose, where people want to decide, where people want to count, where democracy has already won by saying 22 million times no. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Giovanardi, Quagliarello and Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u56	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a little clarity is needed in a debate that seems genuinely lunar. Let us start from the outcome, in recent days, of the consultations initiated by the Head of State: in front of the proposal, made by the Democratic Party, to form a Government extended to the opposition forces, to the forces that had won the referendum, also as a clear sign of the taking of action of a defeat determined by the referendum, the League, just the League that we have heard now, the 5 Star Movement and Forza Italia have replied no: they have not been available, they have not wanted to work, today, in the interest of the country. This government, with the awareness of the existing, is a manifestation of responsibility of the majority forces, of the President of the Council, of all the deputies and senators who will vote for the trust, in order to honour a just requirement posed by the Head of State. The same president Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, yesterday, in the debate in the Chamber, quoted the title of a beautiful song by Luigi Tenco. That is, if he is here tonight, if today, if he is here this morning, it is because with the referendum something has changed, Mr President. Matteo Renzi resigned: this is the most evident sign of the electoral outcome. A defeat, however, which is also part of this House, Mr President, since the reform rejected by the citizens here has been approved three times, here it has been discussed, here it has been changed, here it has been improved, in my opinion. Let me say a few words about the choice of Matteo Renzi, a choice not very practiced in Italy and which honours his words and commitments. Matteo Renzi today, unlike all of us, does not receive any compensation and has decided to get back into play, starting from the voters of the center-left first and from the citizens then, as soon as possible. It is a decision that honors and redeems politics and that should be appreciated beyond the benches of membership. There are places, Mr President, very close to this, not far from here, I am referring to the Capitol, where it took weeks and months to resign, knowing information that was now the heritage of public opinion. On the other hand, on the very evening of the electoral outcome, it was decided to maintain what had been said. And so here we are voting for the confidence of a new Executive who, as President Gentiloni Silveri said, is born in continuity with the previous Government. I was pleased to hear the priority stated yesterday in the Chamber and which is inside the programmatic document, strongly stated, repeating three times the same word: work, work, work. I appreciated the intervention of President Gentiloni Silveri: the work at the center of government activity, knowing that you can count on measures within the budget law, such as Industry 4.0, which foresee investments and a revival of the economic system, knowing that work is produced only if you recreate wealth and if you restart a productive system that can allow Italy to be competitive again. Of course, looking around, I am amazed: there are some groups missing from the Chamber, those groups that said they were defending the Constitution and that with their absence, in my view, they offend you today. Too many times, even in the most recent past, this House has turned into an arena, a place where the country's representation is no longer expressed, but where we simply want to make noise and noise. I share the concern expressed by the President about the need to accompany political forces in electoral reform. The political forces, those same political forces that tell us that we must soon go to vote, that we must go to vote immediately; those same political forces that declare themselves unavailable so that all together we can go to vote; those political forces that do not want to sit at a table to work for the rules of the game to be agreed and made applicable immediately. I wonder whether those political forces are really willing to resort to the electoral corps, as it would be right to do today, in accordance with the outcome of the referendum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. Mr Marcucci (PD). I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. President Gentiloni Silveri, there are men who use the country; there are men who serve the country. We know we can count on you. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u57	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Italy has confirmed itself as a great country. The vote of 4 December showed that there is a free people with common sense; that people who in republican history have always mobilized in the face of the risk of rifts and jumps in the dark. On the other hand, the fact that a government is being formed today without the fear of catastrophes being felt even a distant echo denies the ultimative hypotheses feared even by those institutionally who would have had the task to deny them. Italy, Mr President, is a free and strong country. However, today it is also a suffering country and it would be an unforgivable mistake to underestimate its state. Among the many problems, three structural emergencies are marked by their inherent danger. The credit situation, first of all, on which too much time has been wasted chasing unacknowledged scenarios. It is not yet clear why the Monte dei Paschi di Siena has been rejected a priori concrete assumptions of private capital contribution, without even verifying them, while we are moving towards a nationalization that will further weigh on the state accounts. It is not clear what line one intends to adopt on the four technically bankrupt banks that have not found buyers. It is not clear whether, after the stop of the State Council on the reform of the popular banks, the Government intends to protect its mistakes, in vain at the time denounced, in order to avoid the risk of further outbreaks of crisis. Mr President, this is not clear when clarity is needed in this area, even in relation to the relations between banking power and political power in the past. Without credit we cannot even talk about recovery and we cannot pay this price to cover wrongdoing and conduct of dubious legality. We are no less concerned, Mr President, with the pension accounts. Only a few years ago we faced a legislative intervention that has affected the living body of the nation, creating injustices that weigh like boulders on the cohesion of our society. We must now be sure that the accounts are in place, that there are no gaps or omissions in the communications that then require further emergency interventions, without the necessary deepening to which anyone who cares about the fate of the weakest should keep at heart. On this, Mr President, we await a reassurance in your reply. Finally, the third structural node out of control is immigration. Shake a para-ideological battle between hawks and doves serves only to cover an impressive political vacuum. Because the truth is that in this area Italy has stopped having a policy when it thought it could count on the permeability of the borders of neighbouring countries. Now, there is no doubt that the problem has a European dimension and even that Europe will live or die on this very epochal emergency. However, this cannot become an alibi, nor can it justify the fact that in the vacuum of national politics it is those who take advantage of the drama who end up getting rich. The time has come to give oneself a vision and above all a line of intervention that raises the populations from the feeling of being exposed to every type of unexpected. Mr President, these structural emergencies weaken even more the connective tissue of our country. First of all at the social level, where the crisis has exacerbated inequalities and has "stripped" the middle class, that is, the industrious backbone that has always sought in its own well-being and its children a means by which to increase the common well-being. So the same category of moderation has suffered: today the moderates in this country are the most angry and those who represent their feelings have the duty to understand the reasons, not to indulge them uncritically, but to catalyse them to constructive choices. The connective tissue has then weakened at the political level, also for the illusion of being able to solve the crisis by chasing, from the palace, the wave of anti-politics. So today in terms of the attack on the institutions it is difficult to distinguish between politics and anti-politics, with the further consequence that when this happens it is always the original that wins over imitation. Finally, cohesion has been affected at the level of the institutions. I am not here to beg you, President, with the long catalog of forced entry, illegality, the ploys carried out during the referendary campaign. But to insist on this point does not mean to insult: it means to remember so that shelter can be provided. That is the point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. His Executive is already serving the limit of his composition: a slap at the vote of the Italians on December 4th. Now it will be up to you to decide whether to fully indulge in the anxiety to regain your predecessor, bending the choices of Government to the imminent congressional campaign of the PD, or break the patterns, entrusting itself to start the stitching of the fabric of a country out torn by a long and exhausting story. The attitude you have announced on the electoral law is a good sign but, in fact, it is a sign. We need more than that. President Gentiloni Silveri, the last time we met, before the referendum, in the face of concerns about the excessive personalization of the story that the nation was experiencing, you told me to believe in a policy made by leaders able to incarnate a message and transmit it to the nation, and you hoped that similar scheme could return to the other side of the political system, to which I belong. You see, to all this I also believe, by ancient fascination for the Anglo-Saxon world and its dynamics and for the understanding of those phenomena of modernization that make the leader a necessary means between their reference communities and the nation, on which Weber first exercised himself. You, however, must take note today that if you have been called to lead the Government of the Republic it is because that scheme we both believe has failed, not because of its inherent weakness but because of the way in which, last but not least, it has been interpreted: with unsustainable lightness, with ignorance of the historical significance of that change, with unawareness of the institutional obligations that must sustain it. It is now a matter of patiently returning to repair the canvas or to break the frame permanently. Everyone in the role he has chosen. As an opponent to your Government, Mr President, I hope you will work on the reconstructors' side. Not so much for the benefit of the Executive that you lead, which is not really my problem, but for the sake of our common country. [[Applause from the GAL groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and CoR and the Senators Rizzotti and Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u59	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I rise briefly to represent my desire to vote for your government. I believe it is necessary to do so in this institutional situation, as an act of responsibility towards the country. Parliament will have to resort to the same responsibility to get out of the impasse we are in and I am referring, of course, to the necessary concordance of electoral laws. Only one note, if I may, I would like to address you on the subject: in your programme speech I have not found any reference to research, innovation, university, school and specialized training. Mine is not a criticism of the absence or presence of certain words, but I would like to entrust to you the hope that what those words represent will be felt as a structural priority of a country that, as you say, aims at work, work and work. The government crisis prevented this branch of Parliament from dealing with the budget law in substance and so remained suspended the commitment of Minister Giannini to free hundreds of millions of euros of public resources formally allocated for decades to public research but to date lying in fruitless accounts of the Bank of Italy. I trust that this commitment will be honoured by your Government and that your Government will establish an act of responsibility towards the entire community of the scholars of our country, young and old, engaged in the humanistic and scientific fields, who trust to have the opportunity to free their ideas for their country and to make them available. To those ideas I believe that we must look intently to realize prospects of lasting development. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u62	Mr President, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, you have made a nice start and I thank you for that, saying that you want a dialogue with Parliament. It is a novelty after three years in which his predecessor presented himself in these Assemblies challenging them, provoking them and asking Parliament to obey the Diktats of administration, government and economic lobbying that affected the action of the Government. After the vote of December 4th in the name of the Constitution sign of unity can develop, on the other hand, as the President emeritus of the Onida Constitutional Court writes today, "the patient search, from below, for a less arrogant policy, less sure of itself, more humble, even more oriented to the search for the encounter beyond the confrontation, of the possible convergence beyond the opposition; more able, also for this reason, to speak the language of truth, perhaps uncomfortable, of unity and solidarity. A policy that looks forward and upwards, while keeping your feet well on the ground and identifying the steps you can take every day. I also think what Onida writes, but we are not there, because his Government contradicts his polite tones: it is worse than a photocopy of the previous Government. There are two ladies, who I appreciate for their competence, but who have written a ganghered reform of the Constitution that was rejected without appeal by the vote of 4 December: one will give the papers from Palazzo Chigi and the other will interpret the role of Minister for relations with Parliament. There is in your government the same Minister who said that the work of young people is less precarious and more stable today and the young people responded with their vote on 4 December. There is no, it is true, Minister Giannini because Renzi had also understood that the so-called good school was not good before imposing trust, Senator Tocci had convinced him, yet he nevertheless imposed confidence because some Pasdaran asked him for it. And so now he gets rid of it, but he replaces it with a former trade unionist, moreover appreciable, of the CGIL, which, however, in recent years, has fervently accepted all the anti-union laws of the Renzi Government as that called jobs act that I hope is repealed by the referendum called by the same CGIL. So we are not: with the Italian Left I will vote no to trust your Government. However, in a parliamentary Republic (and ours is such for the will of 19 and a half million Italians) the majority and the opposition confront each other, dialogue. The ground of this confrontation is written: the new electoral law. Today, on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), a moderate analyst, Antonio Polito, is writing some things I have been trying to say for some time. The vote of December 4 is a bit like the vote on divorce, closes a world and erases it: the world in which one thought one should be entrusted to one man in command, the world in which majority laws were sought, in which one chose between Democrats and Republicans, mediated and moderated in the middle of the middle class. That world has disappeared, because since 2008 the crisis has wiped out that middle class - just think of the fact that today we read that eight out of ten Italians think they have become impoverished - and it is also swept away by the fact, as you know, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that our system is not bipolar, but tripolar or even quadripolar. However, the referendum indicates the way forward, in order to carry out this confrontation in Parliament, which you also say you want, to delete the Italicum law, which was imposed with three votes of confidence by the Renzi Government, and to rewrite one that has two fundamental characteristics: the first is the no to con prizes, which turn a minority in the country into a parliamentary majority; the second is to give the voters back the right to elect the elected. There are many possibilities to implement these two basic indications, which come from the electoral corps: Let's discuss this. I find that in this Parliament we are beginning to debate, I find there is an opportunity to speak frankly and productively, with senators of the right and also of the 5 Stars, at least when there is no streaming and when there are no people like Renzi, who cause the anachronistic opposition of Let's discuss it then, we find a good electoral law and then we go to the vote. I know very well, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that your Government will have to do something else, because there are sins left to it by the previous Government, which must be remedied: we need to secure accounts, for example, and deal with the issue of banks. We wait for him to make proposals and, even when they are painful, we invite her to tell the truth, not to hide, not to use the tones of propaganda, but confrontation. Opposition does not mean war, but to make a contribution for the good of the country. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u64	Mr President, Ministers, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, I have read and appreciated your programmatic statements, which essentially show your good will in demonstrating a commitment to dealing with issues that are both formal and substantial. Above all, we appreciate the sobriety of style, which makes us hope and which we believe is useful for a constructive dialogue to be resumed in the country that leads to a pacificization of the political framework, as longed for as much as difficult, because hindered by political forces, which feed their consent on the weakness of the institutions after the victory of the no to the referendum and on the social and economic crisis, which unfortunately grabs our nation. These political forces, just at a time when, before anything else, we would have to put ourselves around a table to write shared rules, move the problems on the square, to ignite the social clash, leveraging an objective malaise, which the economic crisis, which has been going on for years, has unfortunately determined. On the other hand, we, President Gentiloni Silveri, have thought that the best way to respond to the difficulties Italy is a strong call to our consciences, for a further assumption of responsibility, that can help to get our country out of the institutional swamp in which it is located. With this in mind, we have appreciated the choices of the Head of State and we have given the willingness to support an Executive, which is not, as someone said, an Executive of survival but a Government to all effects that has the difficult task of ferrying Italy towards a new phase of democracy and participation through the construction of rules that guarantee governance and international credibility to our country. We recognize ourselves in the methods and intentions of our President of the Republic, in his sense of institutions, in the need to have an electoral reform that is homogeneous and harmonious between the two Chambers in order to guarantee governability. This - let it be clear - is not a pretext for moving forward a legislature that may seem worn out or worn out, but it is a reasoning that comes from the awareness that giving Italians a Parliament with two elected Chambers with different electoral systems - majority in the House and proportional to the Senate - is, in my opinion, an attack on governance and representative democracy. We have no deadlines or dates to look at. We have no temporal objectives, but we have a program that we have been committed to supporting for three years and that needs to be completed, in the sign of continuity with the previous Government, that has had a traumatic interruption of a positive, virtuous path, marked by a slow but sure recovery, by a tiring attempt to get out of a crisis that has been going on for some time. Continuity, which for someone is a limit, from my point of view is an added value; it is the result of three years of commitment by a government that has restarted the country, and we are proud to have supported this path. Woe, though, to think that electoral law is the only emergency in this country. There are some deadlines, unsolved nodes, open dossiers that are urgent to be defined; not only the crisis of the Mount of Paschi and the banking system with more than two million accountants anxious for what is happening, an economic network that is being held together by the banking system. Your Government, Mr President, will have to deal with something else: to take measures to deal with the earthquake emergency; to think about the implementation of the law of reform of the public administration, also in the light of the recent judgment of the Constitutional Court; the definitive application of the new essential levels of assistance which, thanks to the commitment of Minister Lorenzin, have finally been exhumed after years and years that have been kept in the drawer. It will have to implement anti-poverty measures, autonomous jobs act, the reform of vouchers to avoid forms of abuse on the labour market. Mr President, if you think that the reform of the criminal process is also an urgent matter, that it is well to come, but it is good to know that there is no will or desire on the part of this political group that this reform, which comes out after six or seven months of debate in the Justice Commission and which has been shared by the majority forces, should be amended if it is to be approved. Finally, but certainly not last, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, there is the occupational protection of Sicilian precarious workers. I tell you this as a Sicilian, but I say this because it concerns 20,000 workers, 20,000 families, who since 1 January 2017 risk for the first time, after more than twenty years, to remain without salary. We risk a real social explosion; an emergency in a region that, according to the latest data ISTAT, is the poorest in Italy. In this regard, we must express our appreciation for the establishment of the Ministry for Territorial Cohesion and the Mezzogiorno, because precisely on that side of Italy must come a strong push to accelerate the economic recovery and reduce the differential, the gap, between the two parts of the country that see it increasingly split in two. Mr President, we are happy to support a government from which we demand a legislative tail, based on a sense of responsibility, pragmatism, concrete facts and a real effort to restore Italy to an effigy of national unity. I believe that you and the team you have formed will be able to operate as best you can, despite the limited time available. Good work to all of you. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI) and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u65	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u66	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, let us all remember the scene of the then President of the Council, Renzi, who appeared in this Chamber of the Senate, in bold tone and hand in his pocket, to say that he asked for confidence in this House and that he wanted to be the last President of the Council to do so. Well, we have another one and who knows how many more will pass. The Senate is not intangible, you can change and reform, however, Mr. President Gentiloni Silveri, the first lesson is that the Senate is there while Renzi is no longer there: so you have to have the patience of democracy. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] Perhaps, if he had had more humility, his wish for a different Senate would also be realized. We're here for the trust that the Forza Italia Group won't give you, but obviously we can't help but talk about the rubble you're in, because Renzi left you a series of poisoned meatballs. It is that Renzi who said that he would retire to private life: we do not know if he will do so, for now he has taken note that 60% of Italy voted against him, but we remember all the roboating phrases that he would have gone back to doing the common citizen if he had lost to the referendum that he has made himself, with all the consequences that we have seen. So we'll see if he'll follow up on those words. We have already seen that one person has already denied those same words: this is a Government Gentiloni Silveri-Boschi in which a tactical mistake is made, President Gentiloni Silveri, in the overexposition of an architect of that defeat, Mr Boschi, who yesterday would have said, as reported by the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) that if it were not to the government it would be over. I do not know whether there have been blackmail, crying and concussion, but in this Commission, as Undersecretary of the Presidency of the Council, you find a sort of bulky number two that would have done better to respect what you also said on television with Lucia Annunziata, that is to say that you would withdraw. Evidently these Florentine or Arezzo retreats are very quick and last the space of an evening. There are banks in the rubble she finds herself in. It has been discussed and we could talk about the popular ones, the Bank of Etruria and the others; we could remember, as some colleagues like Carraro have already done, that the Council of State has stacked that malicious measure on the popular banks and the Constitutional Court is looming. What are you gonna do? Morelli, the administrator of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, said that the no determined a conditioning. Mr. Morelli, wake up: for thirty years the left, with all the various denominations, dear colleagues on the other side, of the PCI, PDS and PD, plunders the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. [[Applause from Senators Floris and Rizzotti]] If he had won the yes, would 28 billion suffering be gone? He will suffer Italy. You will have to take a necessary measure, which Renzi has postponed in order to avoid admitting in a referendum campaign that historical disaster that belongs to the left (and of all currents, therefore the various lords of the left who have spoken for the no cannot be called out). There was the scam of the Provinces not abolished, because there are still other names. Then there is the disaster of public administration reform, Mr Gentiloni Silveri: what will you do with the ill-fated Madia law, as we said in this House, which has been declared unconstitutional? The debts of the public administration have not been repaid. They were to be returned by the day of St. Matthew of 2014: either they abolished St. Matthew or did not repay these debts. I have the impression that the Saint remains in the liturgies, but also the unpaid debts. We are not talking about the South, which is now entrusted to the thaumaturgic care of a minister and who knows if it will reappear on the political agenda. Then there is the electoral law, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, about which I shall speak in a moment's time in my conclusions. President Renzi has left a poisoned meatball irresponsible: he has passed an electoral law for the House and deliberately not for the Senate, with an irresponsible attitude that deprives the President of the Republic of the legitimate power to send the Italians to vote. That's what he did. It is an attack on the Constitution to have devised that asymmetrical system. At any time a President of the Republic should be able to feel that he is using that power. It is true that there is the Consultellum, but it must be understood whether it is applicable or not. Mr. President Gentiloni Silveri, pay attention to some things. You were Minister for Foreign Affairs when our representatives had that vile vote against Israel. We have read his next words; let him be more careful in giving directives today, which he is President of the Council. Remember the suicide of the sanctions against Russia that damage our economy. It's time to stop: Obama's gone. We no longer take the wrong orders from the Americans; above all Putin has shown more courage and clear ideas towards fundamentalist terrorism than the American administration. Be careful with the citizenship law. He did not talk about it (Mr Alfano went to foreign affairs and I see that he is also outside the Chamber), but we are waiting for you at the entrance: make a demagogic law on citizenship and we will see what the consensus in the country will be. Then abandon the presumption. You have folded category organizations - the yellow hats of Coldiretti - and disclosed false data from Confindustria to scare the country and encourage yes. There was also an action of conditioning of the trade associations that will have to respond to their associates, who did not vote like Renzi's servants who brought the camel troops or forged figures. There are some things on which we are in opposition: we are waiting for you at the entrance. On the electoral law, we have appreciated Parliament's respectful attitude so far. Mr. President Gentiloni Silveri, you're an expert in politics. We met forty-five years ago and I, who will not vote for it, is pleased that yesterday two of my schoolmates received important assignments. I am referring to Antonio Tajani, who is appointed to the Presidency of the European Parliament and whom I hope will be successful, and to you, who is President of the Council, even if I will not vote for you. This shows that politics is not improvised. Tell that to some of your minister who doesn't know the ABC of politics and has made more years of government than of political militancy. Improvisation in politics is another mistake of the Renzi Government; at least with her improvisation certainly is not there. Even Senator Zanda and many others seem to have been in Torquato Tasso high school, a school that has baked people who have resisted over time. On electoral law avoid Renzi's mistakes. He would still be in his place if he had not had the presumption of sending Mogherini instead of D'Alema to Europe and if he had maintained his loyal relationship with Berlusconi who, despite the bitterness and injustices suffered and even the illegitimate and retroactive application of the Severino law, maintained a pact on reforms until Renzi's arrogance regarding reform, electoral law and other choices prevented him. If Renzi had had more humility in European choices and reforms, perhaps he would still be President of the Council today and the reform would have been done if it had been corrected. Also with regard to some choices (we have great respect for the President of the Republic) we contested the method of taxation, not the quality of people. I don't think you're going to make these mistakes there for the time you're going to have to rule. I do not see the colleagues of the ALA-Civic Chosen Group for the Liberal and Popular Constitution. On them is the factor "t", President Gentiloni Silveri. They have been "loyal" with Renzi and the left, but you have considered them "lethal" for your Government: there is an "t" in addition that makes them deadly as loyal. Now they're deciding whether or not to vote for trust. I think it is a political struggle and it will not be a problem of Subsecretaries or Deputy Ministers (let's imagine if in Italy someone cares about these things); it will be a great discussion about the fact if his Government refers to liberal principles, whether he looks to Cross or Proudhon or, as when he was a boy, to Marx, but it seems to me that he has abandoned since the time of the Tasso, ripening different positions, therefore. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Today he will have the confidence: he will have between 168 and 174 votes, not counting the votes of the ALA-Civic Chosen Group for the Liberal and Popular Constitution, I tell him already (with ALA-SCCLP he would have more). Do not be deceived, however: today is the day of trust and you must name the Undersecretaries, but then there are the other days. The Senate has not been abolished, it has full powers, it can give confidence, it approves all laws. Don't fool yourself. So let us compare the electoral law with democracy and Parliament and, for the rest, correct the mistakes. For immigration you are going to Europe, but the problem is not that Europe does not help us: stop bringing five thousand people a day to Italy! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Centinario]] This does not depend on Juncker, but also on Alfano, like you, who was Minister for Foreign Affairs, you know. We will not vote for trust but, for the rest, we will be the protagonists of a transparent and loyal political confrontation in the classrooms and in the country. Because you are in the classrooms and then, now, after so much referendary battle, deserting the Senate would be really incomprehensible. We're here today and in the country tomorrow. Goodbye, President Gentiloni Silveri! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Giovanardi. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tronti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and the Government, allow me to make a brief point about the method: I understand all the deadlines and the urgency, including the time required for tomorrow in Europe. However, in general for the future, and if possible, I would recommend less haste, less race and more time of weighting and pauses of reflection. I will just mention one point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the passage of your communications to the Chambers, where you acknowledge - and I give you notice - that there have not been sufficient answers to two major problems in the immediate past: the social area of the most deprived part of the population and the territorial area of the Mezzogiorno. I consider it an appropriate choice to have concentrated in a Ministry the care of these problems and I think reassuring the competence and professionalism of Minister De Vincenti, but here there is a huge topic that asks to be addressed, and, I would say, attacked in great. It is not just a matter for us, but for Europe and for the whole of the West. He breaks in and asks us a new social question, unpublished for its material composition and for the ways of its formal expression; he comes from afar, and the fault of politics, or policies, is that he did not see it coming: serious fault. The change of capitalism, from the historical structure to the centrality of the manufacturing industry towards a "finance-capitalism" and a "ordoliberalism," for a while was the new one that was advancing and for two decades was able to live from the thrust of power, made of economic development and technological innovation; then, fatally, it saw the mechanism of growth jam and precipitated into a long, deep, widespread crisis, globalized by the same globalization in place. The crisis exposed its contradictions and dumped them on the bottom of the social, breaking down traditional belongings and disorganized that horizontal cohesion that industrial society divided into classes had assured in its own way. The novelty of the social block that has been rebuilt sees the marginalization of the employed and the devalued of the self-employment, of various generations. It is, yes, a question of income, of job stability, of insurance of the future, but it is also a question (and this is not taken into account, because politics lacks mass psychology) of status. The worker of Detroit or Turin, with his high industrial culture, of factory, does not stand, does not accept, to become a social marginalized. The middle class, who inhabited the place of a social elevator that climbed, does not stand and does not accept to see it go down, dragging it to a condition of semi-proletarianization. From here, the harsh reaction, expressed in anger against everything and against everyone. This is the material, structural basis of the rift between citizens and institutions, between mass and elite, between the people in the flesh and the so-called virtual politicians, between peoples and governments. If this tear is not healed, if this ligament is not surgically reconstructed, neither an efficient Government nor a responsible opposition is possible. I would like to say this to these empty benches, to future memory, and to those forces of movement that believe to use this criticality in function of an immediate consent: do not insist on activating this fire, because you will remain burned as well. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Going to the government in these conditions, after a few months you will be the elite against whom the mass is thrown, you will be the establishment fought by the citizens. This, therefore, is a problem to be solved earlier, it is the conditio for the political action of anyone. This belly and head thing should probably be tidyed up then. Some people talk to their stomachs and some people talk to their heads. I would say this: to give attention with the head to the belly of the country; which means a simple thing, but today difficult to practice: to interpret politically the social discomfort and to cure with politics, not with anti-politics (in fact, against anti-politics), the suffering of those who are ill. From the top of the institutions, Parliament and the Government must humbly bow to the ground to see what is in the bottom of the social, the malaise, the rejection, the grudge, sometimes badly spent, for example against immigrants, or with other otherwise poor, to go and hit the real and real reasons, which are often reduced to one only: the unbearable everyday life of a life without dignity. Colleagues, we are here for this; we represent, you govern. President, perhaps your government will not be able to do much, at least for the time allotted, but some signals and some stakes can be given and placed. Showing intense sensitivity on this side would already be something new. I shall conclude, Mr Grasso. I don't know or I don't understand what this so-called post-truth is. I know that once it was said that "to tell the truth" is a revolutionary act.It can't be said anymore, unfortunately (and yes I would), but it's better to tell the truth than to spread illusions. It is better to say, for example: these are the problems, we know them, we practice them, the margins are narrow, the things done in the past weigh, the national and supranational compatibility pushes, and in solving the problems the will has to deal with the time necessary to do well. It is true - and it has already been observed - that a contrast has been created, through which it has passed, in my opinion (perhaps I will be wrong), consistent part of the no that has punished us in these days, between the narration on the condition of the Country Italy and the perception of the same condition by millions of people; a narration, on the one hand, and a perception, on the other, in conflict. Here, on this point I do not call for discontinuity, but I recommend an accent correction. Responsible citizens is the best way to convince them, to call them to collaborate on a common mission: they earn in seriousness, in credibility, in reliability; the qualities that the man of government must tirelessly and patiently show to possess, day after day. Good job, President! [[Applause from the PD, Misto-SI-SEL and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u69	The debate is closed. I am suspending the sitting, which will resume at 1 p.m. for live television. (The sitting was suspended at 12.35 a.m. and resumed at 13.01 p.m.) The session is resumed. I communicate to the Assembly that the motion of trust has been submitted to Government No. 703, signed by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller. I warn my colleagues that the direct television broadcast with RAI is underway. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that when I turn to the Senate to ask for confidence in the new government, there is an obligatory starting point. You know that I have fully and fully shared the proposal for constitutional reform that has repeatedly been adopted by a majority in this House, but you are also well aware that the Italian citizens - the people - have decided in a referendum, with a very clear result. Therefore, I could say that the confidence that, on behalf of the Government, I ask the Senate is certainly based on Article 94 of the Constitution, but it is also a little special: I ask for your confidence and I express my confidence in the Senate and its prerogatives and the relations that the constitutional order establishes between the Government, the Chambers and in particular the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups and Senator Repetti.]] In our debate, some senators argued that the government would be indifferent to the results of the referendum, which we would not take into account. I believe that things are very clear and so are things for Italian citizens. The President of the Council has resigned, a crisis of government has opened. And I think that the choice of President Renzi to resign, in line with what he had repeatedly announced during the referendum campaign, was a choice of coherence that deserves respect for all those who care about the dignity and seriousness of politics. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] We can make all the controversy we want, but there is the fact of a President-in-Office of the Council who, while still having a majority and therefore not being obliged in formal and constitutional terms, chooses to resign. We're not in love with continuity. On the contrary, we have addressed a proposal to all the parliamentary forces in order to identify, if possible, a wider convergence, even a general convergence in the face of the situation. There was an overwhelming majority of political forces to whom this invitation had been addressed an unwillingness. So not a love for continuity, but the taking of action of this situation has pushed the forces that have supported the majority so far to give life to the new Government, out of responsibility, as I have tried to emphasize repeatedly these days. Perhaps it would have been more useful from the political and party point of view - if you want - to avoid this responsibility, but it would have been much more dangerous for the country. Therefore, the sign of this Government is to take charge of this situation. Many have spoken of truth even if perhaps - as Senator Professor Tronti said - revolutionary truth is no longer fashionable, but this is the truth: that the Government has constituted itself with these characteristics in order to assume a responsibility that we consider fundamental at this moment. We did so very quickly: nine days ago the referendum, a week ago the resignation of President Renzi, two days ago the assignment to myself to form a new government; not out of impatience, but because I believe it is clear to all the importance of giving Italy stable institutions and certainty, in a context like the current one. We know, in fact, that we have immediate commitments on which the Government is at work and will be at work even more forcefully in the fullness of its functions. I am thinking of support for the banking system, which I also mentioned in my initial communications. I am thinking of the earthquake and reconstruction emergency: this will be the first meeting I will have this afternoon with Commissioner Errani and the Director of Civil Protection. I am thinking of the European commitment: tomorrow morning there is a European Council in which it is important that Italy is represented in full capacity, because some very important issues will be discussed, such as the rules on migration flows, in particular on refugees, on which you know the Italian position, so I do not repeat it. I just want to mention here - because it is the topicality that drives us in this direction and it is important that we quote it also in the Senate Assembly - the continuous drama of Aleppo, which we will talk about tomorrow, which has been one of the greatest commitments and also one of the greatest successes - unfortunately - of international diplomacy and, for the part that belongs to Italy, of myself in recent months. It was a game in which we tried to experience new relations between the United States and Russia; for a time it seemed that these new relations between Russia and the United States to arrive at a truce worked; unfortunately this did not develop and we continue to witness a drama that offends our consciences and that the Senate Assembly should remember as an unacceptable tragedy for our civilization. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] I refer you back to the communications I made at the beginning for a series of programmatic commitments that await the government. This is not a government of the beginning of the legislature, but it is a government that must first complete the exceptional work of reform, innovation and modernization that has been done in recent years. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] There is no doubt about that, I believe. We can have different opinions and we can of course, from the opposition's point of view, more than legitimately criticize many of these reforms and changes: but on the fact that there is a great deal of innovation that has been brought forward and that the Government must complete I believe that there is no doubt. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] We are recognized by Italian citizens, we are recognized internationally; and it would be absurd for a Government, which, moreover, many critics accuse us of excessive continuity, to imagine that completing the path of reforms initiated is not its main task. So justice, rights, completion of pension rules, innovation (I was struck by the reference that Senator Cattaneo made to you in her speech) and a particular emphasis, which I wanted to give from the initial communications, to the topic of work and the South. The South is one of the places where at the same time the greatest potential of our country is manifested, because, if our country can have in the next few years a much higher rate of growth than the current one, this will be possible if we manage to do much more for the Mezzogiorno. We do not have in mind what operations in ancient times, when we speak of a Ministry that has among its competences the Mezzogiorno; quite the contrary, we have in mind the extraordinary opportunity that, if we set this game well, can come from a rebirth and a recovery of the Mezzogiorno. Labor and Mezzogiorno (continental and island midday) are held together by the theme that Senator Tronti has addressed; let's call it the issue of the discomfort that today accompanies the developments and the progress of modernity. You know well that we are at one of the happiest moments in humanity at the same time, because this is one of the moments in which the average life has extended, the ability to fight diseases has strengthened, each of us has in his pockets an incredible amount of knowledge, that only for my generation would have made it necessary whole libraries, to which we can access instead with great simplicity (then there is also the speed of transport). Yet, in the face of this extraordinary evolution of modernity, there is, in a particular way in Western societies, free and advanced, a growing problem of discomfort in some layers and in some social groups. In particular, the weakest and poorest sections of the middle class are the ones who are feeling the consequences of these positive events, of the fact that the world is more open and of the fact that technological evolution is stronger. If anyone thought of this more open world and this stronger technological evolution as a sort of new Excelsior Ball - and we have thought of it in many in the last ten to fifteen years - he was very wrong. Certainly there is extraordinary progress, but there are the difficulties, the discomfort, the losers in this process and those who care about this process, that is, those who are in love with the idea of open society and not of walls or borders, of international trade, those who believe in these values are particularly responsible for putting the problem of those who are affected by these great progresses, suffer severe consequences, even living worsening of their situation. There are some data released this morning from the Confindustria study center that are from this point of view very interesting. On the one hand, in fact, they show something that is before everyone's eyes and that, to a large extent, is also the result of the action carried out in recent years, that is, that growth rates are forecast with a higher increase in forecasts and that there is more growth than expected [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] Unemployment rates are, albeit very slightly, projected lower than expected. These are therefore encouraging macroeconomic data, which show that Italy has restarted, that in Italy and Europe there is, slowly and gradually, a sign of recovery. At the same time, however, you have seen in the data released by the Confindustria's study centre those on poverty, which are also growing. We must be aware of this contradiction in the context in which we are and in which development, progress, modernization live together with pockets of uneasiness that it is the task of politics and the government to face with credible answers. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (Ncd-CpI).]] This is the meaning of the particular emphasis; we are not twenty years ahead to change the face of the Mezzogiorno of Italy, but it is the sense of the particular emphasis of the word South and of the word "work," work, work" which I have tried to do these days. We will try to work on it seriously, deepening also the question of the times and possible ways to proceed towards the universalization of protections, which must be a goal for those who govern in a context such as what I have described, [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (Ncd-CpI)]] , but that we all know to be a goal that can be crossed with seriousness and awareness because unfortunately we do not solve it with easy slogans. I have spoken in my introductory communications of the duration of the Government, which is established by the Constitution. I have spoken about the electoral law, which we claim to be a task of facilitation and, if possible, of solicitation. In fact, it does not escape one of the institutions of the Republic, as is the Government, however, no matter how long the legislature lasts or does not last, the urgency to give to our system rules that allow to vote to the House and the Senate in a harmonised and effective way. This is a requirement of the system and the institutions. It is not a valve to be opened or closed according to the urgency or minor urgency of the electoral appointment. That is why I say that the government will not be a leading actor, it will be a facilitator and it will urge this path because the institutions - I believe - need it very much. It will affect the decision that the parliamentary forces will make on the electoral law, it will influence, in part, even the material constitution of our country, as they say, because I believe that the reference is right, that we read in the newspapers and that here it has been taken up by some colleagues from Quagliariello and Mineo, even if on opposite fronts, on the fact that there is no doubt that there is also the evolution of our system in relation to how it has been in recent years. I stop here because, in my current role, I cannot go any further but there is no doubt that when you discuss - and the Government will contribute - the new electoral rules, we will all be aware that this will be a debate that will affect the way in which our democracy works. This, I think, is something to be taken into account. I will, of course, defend Parliament's prerogatives and will do so towards everyone. There has been a very wrong debate in my view over the last few months by those who have presented the reforms that had been approved, by a majority, in Parliament as some sort of authoritarian attempt. I think this was a mistake. I call, however, on those who, in recent months, have fought by raising the flag of Parliament against hypotheticals and - in my opinion - non-existent, authoritarian attempts, to respect Parliament and its rules, to participate in its meetings and to do so in a civil and dignified manner as provided for in the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and Senators Bencini, Romans Maurizio, Stefano and Uras.]] I ask all the Ministers of the Government who I have the honour of presiding over to work with responsibility and dignity. I add only another word that I steal from a great Italian, President Ciampi, a great Italian statesman, who, when he presented, under all other conditions, his Government, used another very important term, the term "humility" and said what, very modestly, I would also say, that for the time that will be necessary in this delicate transition, I will humbly serve - and with me the whole Government - the interests of the country. [[Extended applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups, whose senators stand up, and Senator Romani Maurizio. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u71	I thank the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u74	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in mathematics there are three kinds of discontinuities: jumping, essential, eliminateable. The essential is discontinuity par excellence, where it is not possible to bring the function back to a single continuous and uniform vision. We would have liked an essential discontinuity of this Government, given the essentiality of the referendum result: it is a wish not mine, but millions of Italians. Here we are faced with a discontinuity that is not essential, but with a discontinuity that can be eliminated, where the little dot that today lacks the governmental function is only the small, little Matthew. Should we, cordially, give Gentiloni Silveri confidence? Let's say no at this point of discontinuity, no at all "rim-Boschi-menti," no at all "comp-Lotti." We of the X Movement will consider the possibility of a trust, when we will see eliminated, for consistency, those who have promised to leave, when we will see essential discontinuity and, above all, when we will see passed the law on the care giver, that is the family assistant, instead of seeing to the Government assistants of family. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u77	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, bearing in mind what has been reported in the conversation with the President of the Republic of Mattarella, about a Government that allows the Italians to vote in due time, subject to uniform electoral law, which ensures representativeness and governability, and that in the more intense work to give answers to the emergencies of the country, we take note of the birth and composition of the Government that you, President Gentiloni Silveri, today comes to propose to the Senate. For institutional responsibility, we assure you of Italy's trust in values. We will follow closely the activity and measures it will bring to this branch of Parliament, which by popular will has remained central to the institutional and political life of the country. We will promote and work to ensure that more than two million signatures are put at the heart of the new Government's action, such as the reform of the institute of self-defense, proposed by us through a law of popular initiative, on which more than two million signatures have been collected, the fight against mafia and corruption, which also goes through the fact of preventing Mafia overseers from campaigning, as the so-called Lazzati bill provides. We must also think about the health of citizens, through a law that regulates unconventional medicines and a law that recognizes graduates in motor science, and persevere on social inclusion policies, to reduce inequalities, bringing millions of people out of poverty. Finally, I would like to conclude with a final point, which is only such in the decalogue, but not in terms of value: Mr President, we urge you to respect your work through policies on and for work - for our young people and not - and for the revival of the South of the country. We will contribute, out of a sense of responsibility, with our participation in the birth of this Government, reserving our support on the basis of the responses that the new Executive will give to the issues dear to us. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we can only wish you well and wish you a good job, for Italy and for the Italians, by entrusting you with this openness of credit by Italy of values. [[Applause from the Misto-Idv Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u80	REPETTI (Misto-IPI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, this Government was born following the resignation of President Renzi, who were not at all due, as President Gentiloni said, but who are the result of an act of rare consistency - indeed unique, if we want - in Italian political life and which must therefore be appreciated or at least respected. Renzi had taken seriously the mandate received by the then Head of State Giorgio Napolitano to transform this legislature, which was born a limp, into a constituent legislature and so carried forward the constitutional reform, which was then launched by Parliament and which, as we know, was rejected by the Italian people - alas - with a political vote and not of merit. This result must, of course, be respected, although I remain convinced that it was a mistake to reject this reform, which was necessary to modernise the institutions. Renzi and the government allies, first of all Minister Alfano, had the merit of fighting for change, challenging the immobilism, conservatism and irresponsibility of many political forces. The path of change today has no alternative and cannot have it, if we do not want to resign ourselves to the decadence of the country. The revision of the electoral law will be an important test, if not of the government, however of the majority and those political forces that have made themselves available to discuss it. President Gentiloni Silveri, I am sure that you will continue on the path of reform and that you will do a good job, helping the country to get out of this social and political crisis. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that, in this spirit, I am going to vote with conviction on trust in your Government and support it in all those decisions that will be consistent with that change which, unfortunately, has been hindered, but in which millions of voters, progressives and moderates, continue to hope. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u82	Quiet! You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u83	MONTI (Mixed). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to begin by thanking your predecessor, Matteo Renzi. I have no reason to thank him personally, but at the political level as a citizen I thank him for two reasons. He showed courage to fight for change and was at first a good coach: he was able to instill in us citizens a sense of pride, belonging and hope. Great technician, in particular of communication and motivation, has unfortunately ended up with the damage to the country due to its political inadequacy. [[Senator Airola's complaints. Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Laughter]] Unfortunately, it has been resolved in a damage by having chosen as an absolute priority the reform of the Constitution, an important and noble goal, but carried out in a unsatisfactory way. It has been resolved in a damage, in the specific calibration of the reform, to have underestimated the importance that would have further widened the consensus in Parliament to avoid the referendum, instead of giving almost the impression of seeking it as evidence of strength. In 2012, in the last much more limited amendment of the Constitution of the Italian Republic, concerning Article 81 (and not, as it is said, the fiscal compact), the then minister for relations with the Parliament Piero Giarda did, with humility, a very careful work that led to 73 percent of favorable votes in this House and 78 percent in the Chamber of Deputies. There was no referendum: we can imagine what the outcome would be. Those who speak to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have been enrolled in a new grouping, called 'the revolt'. Yet, I have spent my time in the interest of the country, in recent months, to explain, especially abroad, that, in my opinion, the forecasts were completely out of place, fed also by Italy and those international financial circles of which it has long been said that I would be controlled, and that they were grossly mistaken. Even in the event of no victory there would have been neither a financial cataclysm nor the need for early elections nor the need for a technical government. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and CoR]] You, Mr President, are proof of this. I will vote for your government for the trust I have in you and several of your ministers. It is a conditional confidence in three lines of conduct that I hope will be achieved. As far as Europe is concerned, which you know so well, that the substantial poverty of results, but tone-highness, is followed by a much more incisive and less unnecessarily noisy policy. As far as the economy is concerned, I have complete confidence in Minister Padoan and I want to think that, in this period so laboriously oriented by the Head of Government for the purpose of referendum, he has sometimes failed to do everything he would have considered optimal to do. We've wasted time on growth, fiscal consolidation, banks, and I'm sure your government will give this great priority. The last condition that I will observe in the future to direct my vote on individual measures and my appreciation of the Government is simply about seriousness. I hope that I will not see any trace of plundering of merit, of lynching that replaces the serene and even harsh confrontation on opinions and I hope that I will not see more contemptuous tones that harm the country and those who put them in place. Among the priorities I listened with great interest to Senator Tronti's intervention. If we want to be on the truth and not on the post-truth, I believe that the issue of inequalities and a policy for a fairer distribution of income and wealth must again be of very high priority. [[Applause from PD groups and Senators Mauro Mario and Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u86	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, Senators and fellow Senators, President Gentiloni Silveri, Government gentlemen, an Executive that in 1,000 days puts trust 63 times does not respect the Constitution, marginalizes Parliament's activity and changes the rules of democratic play. It starts from this consideration, President Gentiloni Silveri: we will follow it carefully and we will participate with loyalty and rigour in the path that from here to the imminent - we hope - political elections will accompany the action of his Government, first of all in the restoration of the conditions of parliamentary democracy. It has been said, in fact, also by colleagues who have spoken in this debate, that the country is torn apart. It is true and perhaps the levels of social laceration have become even more imposing and compelling than the economic difficulties, inequalities, the contrasts that have been caused by an absolute and total ineffectiveness of political action. I do not know, Mr Gentiloni, how much the massive negative vote on constitutional reform stems from the reasons for a dissent on the content of that reform and how much it is the result of a working method that the Italians have not appreciated. In fact, when party discipline prevails over the debate in politics, when the government's arrogance breaks into the autonomy of Parliament, when the arrogance of power prevails over the ability to listen and to mediate high between the different positions and sensibilities, to suffer from it is not a political party, but democracy; in this context the country, with its vote and with the popular uprising, wanted to give a clear, precise and unambiguous indication to the political forces, the government and the Parliament. This is the result of the referendum, Mr Gentiloni Silveri. We Conservatives and Reformists do not love high tones, polemics or screams; we try to draw on our modest heritage of purposefulness to give directions, not homologating us to political exploitations, but wanting to participate with intellectual honesty, with coherence and loyalty to the formation of the laws that serve the country. In this sense we will not betray our action and our commitment, as demonstrated in recent years with our back straight and with great respect and determination. Mr President, we had hoped - on this matter I differ from the considerations of courtesy which he made with regard to those who preceded him - that the epic tone with which the former Premier took note of his defeat on 4 December - I refer to the statements by which he said he was different and that, in politics, when he loses himself, he resigns himself and goes home - would acclaim and highlight even more the consequences and the subsequent determinations. It is true that there were resignations, however, President Gentiloni, let me tell you that the country did not like - and certainly we did not like it - to see President Mattarella, with the sacredness of a role interpreted in an unparalleled way, and at the same time President Renzi do alternative consultations at Palazzo Chigi, when the resignations should have suggested a completely different attitude in style and content. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] It had never been seen that a resigning President started consultations with the Head of State at Palazzo Chigi. Let me tell you that this is absolutely not an act of respect and coherence. President Gentiloni, we come to the vote of confidence with a Government that already knows of old, with a Government that today assumes a responsibility that, so far, does not seem to mark a discontinuity with respect to the past. You're taking over the government of the country today. The competence and the political sensitivity that we recognize them make it very clear which and how serious is the state in which the country is and the condition in which the Italians live. The recent data of Svimez, INPS, Censis, Caritas tell us: a photograph from the post-war period. Propaganda and tips, hot cloths and a weapon of mass distraction, as was the long campaign referendary with the occupation of public broadcasting services, added the rest. President, we have listened with interest to your assessments on strategic chapters of government action such as social policies, work, pensions, assistance, economic and fiscal policy, crisis of the banking system, Monte dei Paschi di Siena, security of territories, foreign policy between Europe and the Syrian crisis. We will be careful in evaluating the initiatives it intends to take. We will verify whether his ability to listen that he promised, whether the humility he spoke about and the respect he would like to devote to Parliament's classrooms, bringing back balance and pacification between constitutional powers, will represent adequate and sufficient conditions to deliver different destinies to the commitment that with Raffaele Fitto, like Conservatives and Reformists, we have spent in recent years, when we have recorded supposition and indifference even before amended proposals of financed and structured common sense, such as the fiscal ceiling in the Constitution and the North-South infrastructural equalization. President Gentiloni Silveri, we have also listened with great appreciation during the phase of replying his reference to the South of the country. President, in reality, from Justin Fortunato or Gaetano Salvemini onwards, we had only excellent historians, but we did not have the political feedback of a government action capable of recovering in the agenda of the Executive an effective contrast to the marginalization of an entire area of the country. I believe that the demagogy of a South that does not grow and does not make the country grow is now sickening oratory rite that no longer convinces anyone. In the South, the government will have to deal with the employment situation, especially the situation of young people and women, the security and legality of the territories, public services. But the Mezzogiorno - as Professor Claudio De Vincenti well knows - is also ILVA, it is also Taranto, with those forgotten people that still continue to die, where an amendment of fifty million euros to finance the health to refresh the wound still open has evaporated for reasons of absolutely unjustified and intolerable political issue. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi, Rizzotti and Rossi Mariarosaria.]] We realize that you also have another important game to run. Let it govern Parliament, President Gentiloni Silveri. I am going to conclude, Mr President, and I would like to ask you for just one more minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u87	He's already used it an extra minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u88	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, italicum has caused a great mess. We need not to go back into the past, to a proportional system that would make the ills of the palace prevail over the will of the vote and of the voters. On this basis and with these considerations, President Gentiloni Silveri, the Conservative and Reformist Group cannot give trust to its Government. But we guarantee respect, loyalty, consistency and purposefulness. Our position will be rigorous but constructive, respectful of the country but also of the courage shown by you. Mr President, the hope is that your Government will return to dealing with the problems and emergencies of the country and the Italian people after the drink of the unsustainable lightness of pseudo-reformist propaganda. Thank you, and good work. [[Applause from the CoR and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u91	Bisinella (Misto-Fare!). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we in the Fare Group! with Flavio Tosi we appreciate his words, aimed at calling to the sense of responsibility all political forces, including opposition, and not only the majority forces that support his Government. Preliminarily, we express the esteem for the consistency of his predecessor who, while having clear numbers to continue to govern, with an ethically noble gesture, rare in the rampant politics of insult and the much worse so much better, gave lesson of respect for the institutions, political ethics to which we want to continue to believe and inspire ourselves. The commitment, at this delicate stage, must be to lead citizens to vote as soon as possible, through a shared and broad path of writing the new electoral laws. And it is right that this path should also be addressed to the political opposition forces. We, who are not part of the majority, but are and remain a force of opposition, consistent with our liberal and reformist principles of a centre-right area, believe that we must cooperate in writing and in approving electoral reform, as well as, for the same reasons, we have supported constitutional reform. Only by writing together the rules of the game can we achieve the necessary stability in the country and ensure full governance with the next elections. Those who, from the opposition's benches, now claim that they want to vote immediately show that they do not really care about the interests of the citizens, because with the current system it would not win anyone and it would be necessary yet another iniqucio to form the future government. Maybe that's what they want, but they also have the shame of accusing you of being another Premier not voted by the people, when they are the ones who, by rejecting constitutional reform, prevented the future President from doing so. Contributing to writing a new electoral system that guarantees a certain winner in the next elections, and therefore governability, is a duty of all political forces, and of the center-right first and foremost. And we will try to make our contribution to this. We will not vote against trusting your government, which is born with the fundamental aim of tackling electoral reform. We will not make uncritical opposition, but with a proactive and collaborative spirit we are ready to take on the commitment to help unleash the climate of irresponsible hostility and to give our contribution to the measures that will be useful in the interest of the country. [[Applause from the Mixed-Doing Groups! and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u94	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, President Gentiloni Silveri, welcome to the Senate. Welcome among those whom his predecessor, on more than one occasion, called the capons, those who would end badly before Christmas, those who were sitting here in the Chamber during the period of the reforms and he called the "poltronari" [[Brusio]] Partner, I was silent when you intervened. You are right, Mr President, and the parliamentary observers are also right when they say that ours is a parliamentary democracy and, consequently, a government is in office if it has the confidence of both chambers. It is true, but it is equally true that, since we are not automatons, a government must understand when it is time to step aside. True, but a government must understand when the nation and Italian citizens do not like its work and do not like its presence. So, President, this government wasn't even supposed to be born. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] A government like that didn't even have to see the light. It is a government whose members swear on the Constitution, after for two years, since 2014, you have done everything you can to trample on it, massacre it and humiliate it. For two long years we have heard some of the members of this Government and members of this Parliament continually say plague and horns of the present Constitution. And today you swear on the Constitution. We have listened, Mr President, to your speech and the first question that we ask ourselves is as follows: should this not have been a government to do electoral reform and then go to the vote? His government programme seems to me more like what we feared and what the citizens feared: a medium- to long-term government; a government that, if it can, lasts until the end of the legislature. On the other hand, listening to the praises that came from some colleagues who spoke before me - if they had to go home, alas, they would disappear from the Italian political life - we understand that they would do anything to support it not until 2018, but until 2029. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] But it seems to us, Mr President, that the task of this Government is also to arrive at least in the spring, when there will be appointments in state companies. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli]] , the ones that serve to give places to friends of Leopolda's friends. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] So, who is this government made up of? It is made up of those who, on 22 May 2016, said that, if the referendum had gone wrong, they would not have continued their political project and would have left politics: that was what Mrs Boschi said. She is not here today, but she is sitting in the government with her: zero consistency. On 28 November last, I didn't think of the chair, it was the current Minister Faithful, very good and esteemed Senator colleague. In the emphasis and desire to go after the delusions of the former President of the Council, he said the same thing, namely that it was necessary to go home if he had won the no. She was rewarded for her consistency as senator and vice president of the Senate as minister. Good stuff! This Government is also composed of those who - and I am thinking of the current Minister of the Interior - told Reggio Calabria on 16 October that immigration accelerates development. Think of the Italians who are currently on the gas rod, those millions of Italians who do not arrive at the end of the month and are told by the current Minister of the Interior that immigration will accelerate development. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] We are not talking about the current Minister for Foreign Affairs. During the experience of the Renzi Government it is as if he had already done the Minister of Foreign Affairs, bringing hundreds of thousands of people from abroad to Italy: he seemed almost a tour operator more than a Minister of the Interior. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] You said that yourself, Mr President, and we repeat it with calmness and almost resignation: you are continuity; you continue your work, what you have done so far; what you have done in the thousand days you were at the side of former President Renzi. A thousand days of disaster. And in the emphasis that colleagues have even stood up after his speech, I recall that you have had zero influence in foreign policy. We did not count anything in foreign policy - alas, President - and perhaps that is why they put it there: at least it did no harm. After 148 votes in favour and zero against in the decisions of the Council of the European Union, I hope that at least you can do what Renzi has not done and that he promised the Italians to do: a little dignity at European level. We have had 500,000 new immigrants in a thousand days, as we said before, thanks to the tour operator "Alfano&Co"; they brought them to us and - alas - they will bring more. There are 208,000 Italian immigrants thanks to your economic policies. We have 49 percent tax burden. 11 million Italians who don't care, because they can't afford it [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] Yet, we have reconfirmed the Minister of Health. We have 106 billion new public debt: it is the money of the Italians, it is the debts that our children will pay because you have done the phenomena for 1,000 days. Again, 130,000 savers have been cheated by the banks of friends, relatives, dads and who knows who, and that you will continue to protect; not to mention 28 percent of Italians at risk of poverty and the fact that last year they closed 19,000 stores: 19,000 families reduced on the pavement. But you see the light, President. You see the light. One reform a month promised his predecessor. I hope you have at least the decency not to come and make puffin vows like they have been made in the past few years. I remind you of the good school: a devastating reform that has created precarious, which has not created new jobs. I think of precarious teachers, people with more degrees that will have to be compared with the Minister of Education. Mr Albano (PD). Stop it! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I'm thinking jobs act. Go look at how many more layoffs there have been for the so-called just cause provided by the jobs act: there is the sign more in front, thanks to your jobs act. I think of the lesser security of the national territory; I think of the destruction of the family with the law Cirinna, where it even put the trust [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] a government that deals with issues such as family issues. It was good for the Italians in December to send you home. I am thinking of the humiliation of the law enforcement forces and the State Forestry Corps. I'm thinking about the precarious fire department. You call them all heroes, but when the insecure fire department asked your government for help, you turned the other way. You are all this and you are also many of those things that for reasons of time I could not say. Some say that this government serves - as I said before - to make electoral law and go to the vote. The electoral law makes it Parliament, not the government. You didn't need this government to make the electoral law. Parliamentary will is needed to make electoral law as quickly as possible and to go to the vote even faster. Therefore, we challenge you: we challenge the party of the cadrega; we challenge all those who say to go to the vote, but then they are attached to what each of us has behind them. Let's go to the vote as quickly as possible and confront the voters. We want to vote, Mr President. We do not want another President of the Council to be Renzi-a. We are not interested in Renzi-a; the Renziloni Government is not interested in us. We want to vote. So, Mr President, because you are what you were before and nothing has changed, and because - alas - you will do what you did before, you do not deserve our vote, you do not deserve our trust, you do not even deserve the confidence of the Italians. You have to go home as fast as you can. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Mr President, we will not participate in the vote precisely because we do not want to mix with those who will give you confidence. [[Comments of Senator Albano]] We're different, we're the North League. We are on the side of the citizens and, therefore, we are going to get out of this Chamber. Dear fellow journalists, we thought that we would do something striking on the way out of the Chamber, but we were anticipated by the Democratic Party. There is no one from the Democratic Party in this House! Mr Albano (PD). We left for your surgery! MIRABELLI (PD). Stop it! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). There is no one from the Democratic Party in this House. CARDINAL (PD). To listen to you? Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). President, this is your majority, nothing! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Can I go out, ma'am? [[Comments from the PD Group]] VOLPI (LN-Aut). Or is it like last year with the reform, when it took the time off from the parliamentary groups? [[The Senators of the LN-Aut Group leave the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u97	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I wish you, in your personal form and in your capacity as a conscious opponent of the issues of this House, to gain confidence and the full mandate shortly. Have a nice day. We senators don't need to do the best we can, because the beautiful day is not an event to come, but it is the reality of the facts, the first substance of this day. Today is a good day for us because we regain confidence, as laid down in the Constitution. We take back, that is, the way in which, in a parliamentary democracy, Parliament acts: in order to create a government and not already to convert decree-laws and approve draft laws of the Executive, because the laws are and must be the responsibility of Parliament, except for exceptional cases. However, with the former President-in-Office of the Council, who was somewhat of an exception, everything had become exceptional. Finally, this has passed. Today is a good day, because we are voting yes or no for a President-in-Office of the Council who has not asked us to protect him, protrude to the House and provocatively, as if he were the head of an ultra faction. Renzi asked for it with his hand in his pocket, almost to provoke the House, and he received the DASPO - in this case by the Italian people, which is the prohibition to participate not in sporting events, but in parliamentary sessions - since, at last, we have neither here nor in the other branch of Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] And then you, President Gentiloni Silveri, didn't ask us how Renzi did it, promising us and almost threatening us that that would be the last time, with an exaltation of sycumera that would screw - I told you then and I repeat now - with a certain particular presumptuous ambition. Honestly, I didn't understand what that had to do with the Scout culture. I think that a President is referring - as you did - to cultures such as liberal, socialist, democratic or Catholic, and not that a President-in-Office of the Council calls for the culture of scouts. President Gentiloni Silveri, his tones were respectful in form. In these cases, the form is in fact substance and is not only a matter of education, because behavior contributes to the safeguarding of institutions and respect for the people and, therefore, for our voters. President Gentiloni Silveri, I will not vote for you, as most of my group will, while some will. However, I am sure that she will do anything to ensure that - as I said in the consultations - hers is a Government of calming down. After a government of broad understanding we had a government of small agreements and the consequence was to divide the country very much, to feed - you said - a verbal excalation that tore us apart. The consequence was to block the decision-making processes, not to reform or do so badly as to be immediately largely rejected by the public and criticism: a law on illegible procurement, those on public administration and banks fallen by the Constitutional Court and the Council of State. And it was - the President-in-Office of the Council said at the time - about bureaucracy, wigs, owls, or it would be better to talk about a former President who was a fair mix between a witch apprentice and an amateur on the brink. I will not vote for your confidence, because I do not share your views on the state and market, on the perimeter of civil rights, on the balance between political power and the judiciary. But I share your views on how the government should affect constitutional reforms and electoral law. The electoral law is the law - we have said this in this Assembly on our side, when we did not vote on it with that confidence that the Renzi Government has protected - without which the Constitution is not perfected, but only a list of good intentions remains; it is the law that gives life to the constitutional dictation. Here, in the recent past, we have seen and immediately saw a Government wielding the dissolution of the Chambers to induce Parliament to slow death rather than immediate suicide. An electoral law has been made with the vote of confidence: horror and still horror. We have bent, or rather the majority has bent its duty to the will of the government. The law that was to implement the Constitution was voted in a closed box just because the government wanted it; this means trusting the laws. Not only that, the electoral law was made before there was the new Constitution, so now, without that new Constitution, rejected and overwhelmed by the electoral body, we are without electoral law. We had said that, we had shouted it in this House, but we had the best proof of arrogance and presumptuousness. And that law, which we said was unconstitutional, as everyone now says, that law that Renzi said was the most beautiful in the world, that everyone would copy us, today is tamquam non esset. And how can we fail to remember a budget law which is very much in line with the electoral events, a law which has already been rejected in Europe, whose heavy legacy its government is charged with. I've already said about form and substance. I would add that between form and substance there is responsibility, which is one of the founding principles of the best democracies. Responsibility, especially when you lead the government and the administrative machinery, lies between the form you have in mind of yourself and the substance of the action of the President of the Council. The former President of the Council was irresponsible in dragging and bending the good of the Italians to his political game. I hope - and I am partly convinced - that you, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, will not do so. I will conclude, President of the Senate. The British conservatives say, observing the historical sequence of their governments and their duration, comparing it to that of Labour governments, that it is logical that there has been twice as many conservative governments in British history as Labour governments, because it takes time to remedy the mistakes of Labour governments. So I ask myself: how long will it take to make up for the mistakes of the previous government? Certainly longer than the remaining term of the legislature allows you, President Gentiloni Silveri. So this legacy will come to us, which will be hard to receive. Unfortunately it will touch us, but we will assume the burden for the good of the country, thinking that governments like the one before Italy should not suffer for a long time. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u100	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all, good work for the heavy task that awaits you. I believe that, in dealing with this debate on trust in the new Government, we can only start from a statement: in ten years, twice in a row, the Italian people rejected the constitutional reforms that abolished bicameralism and led to a simplification of the legislative process, putting us in step with the other major democracies. On 4 December last, the referendum turned into a tsunami that overwhelmed the previous government, because the gap between no and yes was evident and because the very high participation in the vote gave the consultation a formidable political value. The consequences were inevitable and President Renzi took note of them correctly, with a speech as a leader who knows how to take responsibility. It is precisely the concept of leadership that needs to be deepened: Renzi, with his temporary exit from the scene, closed a long political season centered precisely on the leadership of the parties and on parties forged in the image and likeness of the leaders. Now everything changes, and not catpathically because nothing changes, but because the sovereign people wanted it, which by paradox, just at the time when anti-politics and anti-system drives prevail, has chosen to push the course of things towards the restoration of the old politics. And so the years in which we voted for the parties or for the coalitions - but in reality on the evening of the elections we already knew who would be the head of the government - will be supplanted by the full return, in substance as well as in form, to the rites of parliamentary democracy. The modernity of politics requires more, but today the President-in-Office of the Council is no longer the absolute leader of the Government, but only the first peers in the Council of Ministers, and that is the place that is the most collegiately elected to determine political decisions before. That is why we asked you to sit down. This Parliament, born without a majority, had given itself a constituent function and failed, because constitutional reform was rejected by the people and because also the majority electoral law, the Italicum, whose combined arrangement would guarantee governance and instead was dismissed as an authoritarian drift, ended up in the basket. Our Group has consistently supported the entire reform process, committed itself in the country, during the very long referendum campaign, to support the reasons for the yes and was therefore associated with a defeat. Moreover, the Government, Mr President, is also in this sense a Government of defeat, born of a defeat. But we cannot and do not want to deny our parliamentary contribution to a great bet on the future of the country, which unfortunately has been a loser, partly because, thanks to our votes, important reforms have been approved in this House in recent years. I quote only the most significant, namely the law on civil unions, which without us would never have passed. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]] We have done this out of political conviction, being outside the Renzi Government, in seventeen long months, protecting it from the insidious divisions in the majority and guaranteeing not only the approval of dozens of measures, but the same functionality of the Senate, with the holding of the quorum in the Chamber and in the Commissions. That without ever asking. But, despite everything, our generosity has been directly proportional to the insults we have received. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I apologise if I summarized the previous episodes, but in front of you, who defined your Government as the responsibility, I have a duty to remind you, in order not to wrong the truth, that we were the first ones responsible for this parliamentary term and that, when the crisis opened, we offered the willingness to participate fully in government action. It would have been the crowning of a hard, tormented and difficult path, but also the achievement of that full political legitimacy of those who contributed to the governability of the country, at a time when the populist advance determined by the economic crisis requires strong answers and a better quality of politics. Concerns expressed several times by President Mattarella, whom we thank for the impeccable role of impartial referee who has also played in this circumstance. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]] Concerns that you may not have been able to fully grasp. But to you, President Gentiloni Silveri, goes equally our respect as Head of the Government of the Republic, even if you have kindly closed the door in our face for reasons I presume internal to the balances of your majority, with the retrothink of getting us perhaps at a later moment from some secondary door. But you see, this is a Government that should have marked a discontinuity with respect to the previous one, precisely because of the circumstances in which it was born; instead it is the almost exact photocopy of the Renzi Government without Renzi. This is a government that should have expanded its parliamentary base and reduced the seats. You have done the opposite, increasing the number of ministers. But we are adults and vaccinated and not prone to resentment and, therefore, we will not cling to the choir of the stadium screamers, nor to the supporters of the "so much worse," so much better, unfortunately today masters of the vast and insidious web square, where they convey daily their hatred, strong of an unprecedented popular consensus. It's not in our DNA, and it never will be. We will simply oppose your Government, a serious, rigorous opposition and never above the lines, but without any indulgence, whether these are measures that do not convince us, or whether they are daily parliamentary procedures. "It's politics," said Don Camillo, and you know politics well. In physics, each action corresponds to an equal and opposite reaction. In our political vision, this automatism does not exist. On the other hand, there is a much greater principle than physics, which is that of political dignity, which you, Mr President, did not want to recognise, on the basis of a convention to exclude us from understanding. We are waiting for you at the entrance, President Gentiloni Silveri. We are convinced that the birth of the new government is necessary, because going to vote in February with two different electoral laws for the House and Senate would have been irresponsible and because the emergencies of the country must be faced by an Executive in the fullness of its powers. There is the after-earthquake; there are bank accounts of savers to be secured; there is the immigration emergency to govern, and I hope that finally Italy can make its voice heard in Europe to modify that Dublin Regulation that forces us to face alone migratory waves as a first port country. There is the secular issue of the South, which has been made promises that have never been kept. Finally, there is the need for Parliament and the Government to adopt harmonious electoral laws for the House and Senate, because the First Republic has returned, but we can no longer afford the swamp of unstable governments. Everything pushes towards a return to proportionality, but the new law will have to be carefully considered, so without Blitz and without escapes on the part of anyone. You, Mr President, said that your government will last as long as you have the confidence of Parliament: a LaPalissian phrase, but full of political meanings for a government that should have been born only to make electoral law. However, the heavy commitments that await you would have required - this opinion - especially here in the Senate, certain numbers not to run the risk of a sailing from a seaside government. This will not be the case, since we cannot give it to him and we will not give it to him by a firm and autonomous decision of the Group. To put it bluntly, anyone who thinks that there is an authoritative stone party outside of the Parliament that hetero-directs us is completely out of the way. I conclude, President, by saying that this is a government that is not up to the challenges facing the country, because it has a political and parliamentary base that is too weak and precarious. For this announcement that our Group will not participate in the vote of confidence. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u103	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Senators of the Per le Autonomie Group have shared and supported the formation of the Government Gentiloni Silveri, a Government with full powers, which is able not to circumvent the economic and social priorities and commitments in the European and international; a Government that at the parliamentary level accompanies the approval of the electoral law and leads to the adoption of those reform measures - from the criminal process to the competition law - whose process has already begun and which for some time have been under examination of the Chambers. With regard to the government's initiative, it is clear that its Executive, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has programmatic priorities that recall in the first place the role of Italy in Europe, from the budget law to the banking system, but also to the earthquake and that she rightly defined with an explicit reference to the social and economic emergencies of the country; priorities that are not only in continuity with the Renzi Government, but outline - and could not be otherwise - the need for a renewed commitment of government. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have also used words of great balance on the issue of electoral law, particularly when you said that there is a need for discontinuity in public debate. The parliamentary groups, which are now making too much noise here, must be given a decisive responsibility in our view: it is up to us MEPs to take the initiative on electoral law, because it is our prerogative that we cannot and must not abdicate. It would be devastating for Parliament's image to ask the question of electoral law to be resolved, because it would be a confirmation of the inability of the policy to decide. It is unthinkable to go to the vote with two electoral laws overturned by the Court, with a Porcellum and an Italicum transformed into Consultellum, both difficult to implement due to the lack of implementation of the legislator. We all know that the judgment of the Court, even if it cancels the ballot and the majority prize, may not be enough to go to the vote with certain rules. As well as the so-called Consultellum is not in itself applicable, because essential points remain open starting with the choice of Parliament on the system of preferences. Those who call today, as well as in the past, would be the first to blame this majority for causing a regulatory mess. It is therefore not, in our view, credible, neither desirable nor sustainable to suppose a Parliament that is deposing itself pending the judgment of the Constitutional Court, demonstrating that it does not have the will or the ability to identify a shared electoral system. The Group of Special Autonomous Communities, with regard to electoral laws, has indicated to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the fundamental need for the confirmation of the electoral reform of the single colleges for Trentino-Alto Adige Südtirol and for Valle D'Aosta, already provided for in the current electoral law, because we have always preferred, and opted, for an electoral system applicable both in the event of the transition of the reform, and if not. In this sense, we're good. We are sure that its Government will also guarantee a continuity of the action of the previous Renzi Government with which we have worked and collaborated very well also in relations with the autonomy; action that has led to extremely positive results reducing considerably the litigation before the Constitutional Court, exploded instead during the Government Monti. We are confident that, with this Government, we can carry out the work already begun in recent years, in particular with the launch of the rule of implementation on the administration of justice for the Trentino-Alto Adige Region but also for the Valle D'Aosta. Finally, the termination of the provisions that were illegitimately laid down in 2012 will have to be regulated, also in order to take account of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. We, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are confident and confident that we can work with you in a very positive way and, for these reasons, the Autonomy Group will vote for your government. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u106	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Italian Left will not vote for trust in your Government. After the referendum we had asked for discontinuity, clearly and unequivocally. We certainly note a change in the tone that you, Mr President, used earlier in this House, and an institutional politeness of which we did not doubt, knowing it, and to which we were unaccustomed after three years of veritable bullying by your predecessor vis-à-vis Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Morra]] We can only appreciate this, but this cannot be enough for us and especially for the almost 20 million Italians who rejected your constitutional reform without appeal on 4 December. In fact, he responded with a sort of clone government of the previous Government and with the claim of all the work of the Renzi Government which, moreover, is the same that today demands confidence. But you all know perfectly well that the no in the referendum was very much a no in your economic, social and environmental policies, it was the rejection of all the reforms with which the Renzi Government, in three years, has increased social inequalities and has shattered the rights of workers and citizens. It is this continuity that we cannot accept in any way and that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today, even in your replies, have stubbornly claimed, with the usual mantra of innovation. Of course, the President-in-Office of the Council has changed. Matteo Renzi has resigned that they were actually a due act, if dignity in politics still makes sense, but he made everyone understand, even crossing the border of institutional courtesy, that to command and decide always wants to be him, so much so that he wanted to put his pretorians on guard of the new Executive. The Minister who gave her name to the reform, after having assured that if the reform had failed she would leave politics, occupies in this government a very important and, dare I say, strategic position. After demagogic announcements, he had no political decency to take a step back. The former undersecretary Lotti, right-hand man of the outgoing Premier, is promoted to minister and maintains, precisely with Boschi, the power to decide in the coming months a number of very important appointments. Leaving for fake and writing letters on Facebook is easy, but to give up the real power Matteo Renzi, evidently, does not think about it. The vast majority of young people voted no, not only because they have fully rediscovered the great value and pride of our Constitution, but also to reject the jobs act, which condemns them to a life of precarious and underpaid work and humiliation of vouchers. Yet today, we are called to restore confidence to the Minister of Labour himself - yes, the Minister of Voucher - as the Minister of Public Administration herself once again calls for confidence, who has faced one of the most complex reforms, with the sole aim of privatising the local public services, overturning the decision made by the voters in the referendum on water and subverting the constitutional dictation of the impartiality of public administration, so much so as to arrive at a resounding rejection by the Constitutional Court. Only the Minister of Education has changed: we hope that he will reverse the disastrous course taken by the reform called, with irony left, good school, but we hope little. The truth is that in those millions of nos in the referendum there is a cry for profound social suffering, made more extreme by the wrong reforms of the Renzi Government. It is a suffering due to the absence of work, to the humiliation of work and workers, to the insufficiency of public health, which every year gives us millions of people who renounce to cure themselves, to growing poverty, but neither the Government nor the majority of the PD, which of this Government was the author, intend to listen to that cry. You don't understand anything about the real country. For three years you have been drunk with your own narrative and still now, despite the heavy denials of reality, you still do not want to see and not want to understand. We are also calling for confidence to be given to a Minister for Foreign Affairs, whose inadequacy is so resounding that not even the best commentators were able to avoid reporting it. It is an incomprehensible choice and I would say irresponsible, all the more so in view of the important international commitments that await us, such as the entry into the UN Security Council, the G7 Presidency in turn and the confrontation in the European Union on urgent issues such as immigration. Finally, I recall the issue of electoral law. We hope that the illusion of being able to write the rules of the game at its own use and consumption is finally set. We need an electoral law that is as shared as possible, in line with the Constitution and that gives voters the right to choose their representatives and without the distortion of political representation through the fraud prizes. After that, we will have to go to the elections immediately. We very much hope that you, President-in-Office of the Council, will do what you promised in your speech and leave Parliament with all the freedom and rest necessary to finalise an electoral law as much as possible, without the incredible forces with which it was imposed by votes of confidence. At least this signal of discontinuity, President, we expect it. For the rest, however, this Government is an offense to voters who made their voices heard loud and clear on 4 December. His sign is the arrogance with which a power group decides to ignore the popular will. It may seem like a test of strength to you. Instead, it is a proof of weakness: this government is a besieged fort that desperately tries to rally in the hope of resisting and spending the night. In this desperate attempt, once again give evidence of your total irresponsibility. Before you split the country, trying to impose the overturning of the Constitution. Now, after the Italian people with the referendum have shown that they still have confidence in democracy and hope in politics, you can only give the most brutal and contemptuous answer. You're saying to those millions of voters: So much so that you don't count anything. In homage to the unbridled ambition and the thirst for power of a small group of ambitious politicians, you risk destroying the remaining confidence of citizens in the possibility of changing things by voting. Sow detachment and anger. What you call populism is the result of your irresponsibility. I just want to remind you that just two days ago you solemnly swore to serve the interests of the Italian people, not those of a power group or a party secretary. You, President Gentiloni Silveri, have called for respect for the institutions, but, unfortunately, it is you who once again show that you do not have this respect, first of all with regard to the will of the sovereign people. As for us of the Italian Left, the avalanche of no that defended the Constitution and defeated you, who wanted to upset it, commits us today to say no to its Government and to continue in the battle to cancel the reforms that Renzi has inflicted on the Italians, starting from the referendum that will take away from the middle, in rage of the people, the shameful jobs act, to build together with the many citizens who have animated the battle to defend our Constitution that real change that Italy expects and in which it hopes. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u109	Bianconi (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, the presence in this House of this Government is the most eloquent response to the fans of the worst so much the better, that there are always so many in our country, to those prophets of misfortune who, led by myopia politics, would have wanted to push Italy and the Italians into the abyss of early elections, where the absence of a homogeneous electoral law for the House and Senate would have delivered the country to ungovernability, while there are so many families affected by the devastating disaster of the earthquake that await a commitment from this Parliament and there are thousands of families who see their savings in the balance. Fortunately, today we can tell all these families that a strong and firm political government will be there. For this result I would first like to thank the President of the Republic of Mattarella, who wisely managed to guide the country in this difficult passage, calling everyone to work so that the political climate can be articulated and developed with a dialectical relationship, as is necessary for our democracy, but serene and constructive. Wrong are those who think that this government is simply a way to avoid ballot boxes or that it is the waiting room for elections. Who today will express their vote of confidence has understood well the message arrived from the Italians on 4 December. The resignation of President Renzi represents a plastic gesture: a courageous gesture consistent with what he had declared during the election campaign and which must be recognized with respect. But, after a vote that has divided and deeply torn the social and political fabric of our country, taking refuge in the race for the vote would have been for this political class, for this Parliament a bad signal, almost an admission of incapacity, a surrender. I would like to remind all of us that the second paragraph of the first article of our Constitution states that sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits indicated by the Constitution. Well, those forms and limits are us, all of us parliamentarians who are responsible for ensuring governance. The Italians and all of us will vote again, but in a scenario in which the threads of our social fabric will finally be renowned, finding that necessary serenity after a divisive and tearing referendum campaign. We must not forget that there is a need to harmonise the two electoral laws of the House and the Senate and that this passage is indispensable to go and vote. In this context, going to the vote would have risked leaving the country at the mercy of confusion and with only one certainty: the absence of a political framework, out of the ballot box, clear, that could represent a serious and credible proposal of government. In front of all this we felt that it was our task to assume the weight of this responsibility, with conviction, with commitment and above all with hope; I repeat it: with conviction and hope. The conviction that the new government will be able to get in the wake of that good government that has allowed to reverse the negative trend of our economy. I would like to remind you that our country is a safe country, with infrastructures in motion, with government and enhancement of our cultural and landscape heritage, a health care ready to govern innovation, the valorization of Italian research, a great attention to the fragility of our territory and important results in the field of defence. There is hope, Mr President, that in the end we will be able to hand over to the Italians a country system more capable of responding to the demand for innovation, social inclusion and governance. For us in the Ncd-Centrist People's Area for Italy, the Government that is born today has a clear political imprint: it is a political and coalition government, in which we participate not only in the logic of national responsibility, but in a vision of political perspective. It is an important and nodal step for us, not a random one, because once again to bear the weight of this moment is the majority that so far has ensured, responsibly, the governability of this country. It is regrettable that the appeal we have made to the parties for a government of national responsibility has been buried by particular interests, confirming that the search for consensus through populism is increasingly widespread among political and parliamentary forces. Today's vote of confidence makes further clarity and draws a majority, a positive pole that works for a better Italy and wants to look with confidence to the future, but seriously facing the emergencies present in our country. In turn, we do not consider this to be a long-term government or even a dead one, as some have rushed to declare. We are not in the imminence of elections; rather we are in the imminence of the birth of a government in which we believe and on which we aim to continue the good work carried out so far. Today the Gentiloni Silveri government is born, and I want to make it clear, Mr President, because no one thinks that there is a plug that can be removed whenever they want, or that they have the golden share on the life of the Executive. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI)]] There are no expiry dates: this Government will continue until it has the votes in Parliament and when it has dealt with what President Mattarella has indicated as fulfillments, commitments and deadlines, both internal, European and international. This is the course that we will have to follow and it will be in Parliament and not elsewhere that this Commission's path will be decided. I would remind everyone that ours is a parliamentary and not a plebiscite republic and I am pleased that in your speech, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, you wanted to confirm the centrality of Parliament in the life of the Government. We therefore leave this Government to work, because the files that the previous Executive had before them are various and very important, starting with the issues that remained open in the last budget law that only the crisis of government did not allow to face on that occasion. In this respect, I urge the Commission to act quickly, just as we must quickly bring support to our citizens affected by the earthquake, starting the reconstruction and continuing the long road traced with the Casa Italia plan. It will always be up to this Government to become aware and speak to that 60% who voted no and expressed an uneasiness, to the South, to that middle class that has most of all suffered the burden of the crisis and the wave of migration. I welcome the choice of President Gentiloni Silveri to have foreseen a Minister who will deal with the politics of the Mezzogiorno in the person of Professor De Vincenti. It's an important warning signal. Equally positive is the declared will of the Government to facilitate, but discreetly, the path of reform of the electoral law. It is important that the new law arises from the confrontation between the parliamentary forces, free to identify the system that best suits the season we are experiencing. For this reason I believe that the review process can begin immediately, without waiting for the decision of the Consulta, in the awareness that with the vote of 4 December the majority season of our country has ended. It is becoming increasingly clear that bipolarism, which has characterized the last twenty years of our history, has given way to a tripolarism, and of this the new electoral law cannot fail to take note. There is no need for a law "against" someone or something, but for a law "per": to govern, to give stability to the country, to guarantee full representation to Italians in parliamentary classrooms. The experience of the recent past guides our action. For this reason I appeal to those who today will give their vote to this Government and to those who will not give it, so that we work together to give the Italians as soon as possible a good electoral law. President of the Council, I wish you and all the Ministers of the Government good work. The important task of governing this country rests on us. It will not be easy, in such a delicate historical moment: we will have to resist the sirens of populism and those who will do everything to bring the government's course to the rocks. But be assured, in this majority, in the faces and in the eyes of every single senator, you will find that support and, above all, those motivations to move forward, those that today are the basis of our convinced vow of trust. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u110	Since I see a special attention of the press to the benches of the 5 Star Movement Group, I think that the Senators of the Group have yellow signs on the tables, which are not allowed. Please pick up those signs. They've already photographed them anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u111	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, we have nothing to say about this: there is no violation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u114	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are experiencing a dramatic moment in the life of our country and honestly in this House I am hallucinating, because I see the usual faces in front of me. There are few, because everyone has already disappeared, not even the time to listen to explanations of vote: this is the respect they have for Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is the respect Parliament has.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u115	Senator, please speak with the same respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u116	Montevecchi (M5S). I'm talking with respect. I see the usual faces: they exchanged places and, with a waltz, they forgot of a vote, that of December 4, a referendum vote that said no not only to a disastrous reform, but also to that Government and that majority, that have brought it forward paralyzing Parliament for two years and leaving on the benches of the Government all the emergencies of this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We didn't tell you, our former Premier told us that the government's political fortunes would depend on that reform! But today we find most of the same ministers here. And don't tell us Renzi's gone, because Renzi hasn't left. Renzi is inside this government and is the director of this government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And there are two trusty guard dogs: Maria Elena Boschi and Luca Lotti. Do we want to remember who Maria Elena Boschi is? Maria Elena Boschi is the person of whom they will remember forever for the Banca Etruria affair and for having proposed to this Parliament a shameful constitutional reform, which wanted to remove the right to vote for Italian citizens! [[Comments of Senator Cardinali and Senator Cucca. Applause from the M5S Group]] In a normal country, in a civil and democratic country, a person who takes advantage of these failures - and she said it herself, a few months ago, on television, but then evidently forgot that regurgitation of dignity and forgot to go home - she would resign and go home, asking the Italians to excuse her on a unified network. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). But I'm sorry for what? Montevecchi (M5S). I'm sorry for distracting Parliament for two years from the central and emerging issues for this country! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then we have Luca Lotti, to whom are given the delegations for sport and who maintains the delegation to publishing. Publishing and information, citizens! And the delegation to CIPE. Mr Tomaselli (PD). Enough? AIROLA (M5S). Mr. President, a little respect! [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] Montevecchi (M5S). Leave them alone, Alberto, they don't have any more weapons. You, President Gentiloni Silveri, have proudly claimed the work done by the Renzi Government. Then I ask you what is there to be proud of, for a government that in a thousand days has left us 105 billion euros of additional public debt; for a government that has left us 55 billion euros of extra taxes? What is there to be proud if 28.7% of Italians are at risk of poverty or social exclusion? We have 8.3 million actual poor and 3.5 million children at risk of poverty! [[Ironic comments from the PD Group.]] And you must be proud of all this? With a law on citizenship income that has been rotting in the Commission for two years? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Is there to be proud if in 2014 104,000 companies ran out of steam and, in 2015, 96,000? In practice, we are losing a whole productive fabric that was made of recognized excellences all over the world. And is there to be proud of the reform of the "good school," which has thrown into chaos the world of school, which has upset the lives of teachers, which has given rise to disputes that will cost the State money, because it is losing them, and whose harmful effects are falling on the shoulders of our students? Do you need to be proud of this? I don't find anything to be proud of. Nor am I proud to see the eternal minister Alfano sitting at the government counter, who certainly has not distinguished himself in the management of his Dicastery: if we think about the case of Shalabayeva or how he managed the migratory phenomena. And I'm sorry he's not here, because I would have reminded him that the cat is on the table. The kids know, too. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And we put it in foreign affairs. Then there is Pier Carlo Padoan, the man who saved the banks without thinking about savers, left in the middle of a street, the author of maneuvers tears and blood and the last budget law, wedged with electoral tips without covers. And Europe will ask us to take this into account! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then we have Giuliano Poletti, who had the merit of doing the jobs act, which is already a grammatical horror, in English. He deleted Article 18, our left-wing minister, cancelled the rights of workers, increased the precariousness and hung the lives of young people on a voucher, just to give them the enthusiasm to study and not leave this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Then we have Marianna Madia, who did a reform rejected by the Constitutional Court. We have Andrea Orlando, a Guardasigilli who has failed to make a serious law to fight corruption! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have Gianluca Galletti, who has passed, smooth as oil, the measure unlocks Italy, which endangers the protection of our environment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's talk about the Minister of the Environment, a lover of incinerators and nuclearists! Then we have Dario Franceschini. Dario Franceschini we must thank him, because he dismantled the superintendences, he put in serious danger the protection of our artistic and landscape heritage and in the budget law, thanks to an amendment presented by a colleague of good mind, he snatched the money of the ticketing of the Colosseum and Pompeii arrogant to the Ministry the proceeds of the ticketing and leaving the special superintendence to the air. And we wonder how they will protect the archaeological park of Rome, Pompeii and the surrounding areas. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And, dulcis in the end, we have our colleague Anna Finocchiaro, shadow godmother of constitutional reform, who today can proudly pin the medal on the merit of a Ministry without portfolio. None of these people, however, paid for his mistakes; no one who took responsibility for his actions, because you seem shortsighted, but the truth is that you do not want to see. You sound deaf, but the truth is you don't want to hear it. You have silenced a country with a photocopying government that is a disgrace and an insult to all Italians who went to vote on December 4th. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, said yesterday that Parliament is not a social network and that we must have respect for this institution. We have demonstrated this, fighting together with so many others to save our Constitution. [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]] [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have done so every time we have performed our function as a parliamentarians, trying to always be loyal and always observe the principles guaranteed by our Constitutional Charter, something of which you cannot be proud with the jobs act, with the unblocking Italy and with the policies that you have carried out in this country. I will conclude by reminding you, President Gentiloni Silveri, that the institutions are of all, are at the service of the citizens and 20 million citizens have clearly expressed their will: to return as soon as possible to decide who and with what program Italy must govern. I say this because you still have to explain to us where you derive the legitimacy to carry out a program of bankruptcy like that of the former Renzi Government and who never legitimized the former Government, of which you now want to collect the witness in full, to propose the solutions that you proposed in your parliamentary years. For this reason, precisely because the institutions are of all and because the citizens had expressed a clear will with that vote, a will that you had asked to express beyond the referendum, the 5 Star Movement does not give the confidence to this Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. The Senators of the M5S Group display yellow signs bearing the inscription "Millions No".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u117	Delete those signs, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u120	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, after a long wandering around the goose we have returned to the starting point: a new government, a new confidence, the same majority, the same problems, as if the world had stopped. A complex picture formed by the crisis of the MPS and part of the banking system, by the unemployment that holds us to the taillights of Europe, by the earthquake emergency of Central Italy, which had to wait for almost the entire referendum campaign before Parliament could decide on a first package of actions, a package certainly not exhaustive, from a South abandoned to itself, from the unknown of a budget law mostly electoral, approved without the possibility of being discussed with a confidence of this Assembly, while the Renzi Government already resigned and on which weigh the judgment and the requests for correction of Europe, but also and above all formed by the failure of constitutional reform. A serious failure, because one thing was clear at the beginning of this law and it is also clear today: the need for a revision of the constitutional structure that can simplify and make the state machine efficient and at the same time maintain all the guarantees of a proper check and balance system. When Renzi wanted to invoke the government's initiative for reform, he made the first of a series of serious mistakes: reforms must be made by Parliament, not by the executive power. Not having considered fundamental the widest possible sharing or having only fakely sought it at an early stage to sound of continuous forcing and blackmail was his second, big and grave mistake. To tear to the centerright pieces and small pieces, imagining that they were politically representative, while the center of gravity remained firmly anchored to the figure of Silvio Berlusconi, was an additional gamble paid very dear. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Imposing the referendum as a vote of confidence of the Italians on himself and on the entire Government, cast the country in a long, ferocious and divisive electoral campaign was the final bet, lost too, because the country no longer believed in the promises always missed and based its judgment on the facts, on the reality of a society on its knees for economic difficulties, an industrial fabric on which the weight of the crisis weighs and that of the inability to face it of the last three - for the sake of the news today we must say that the fourth is about to be born - unelected governments, of young people without prospects, of a forgotten South, increasingly detached from the rest from the Italian territory in terms of security, infrastructure and prospects. And with respect to all this I am not convinced it is a sufficient answer to give the title to a new Ministry. This is the judgment we derive from the vote in the referendum on 4 December, and I believe that it can only be shared by the many decent and intellectually honest people who are militating in this House. So we must be consistent and draw the necessary conclusions. This majority, which is now a majority only in parliamentary classrooms and not in the country, and this Government has the duty to deal with the emergencies that the circumstances assign to it: the economic crisis and the rescue of the banks in difficulty; reconstruction in the areas of the earthquake; security and migratory flows; international terrorism and wars in the Middle East. This is for the time necessary for Parliament to adopt an electoral law capable of countering the need for governability to that of representativeness, which takes into account the decisions of the Council and which, as requested by the President of the Republic of Mattarella, is homogeneous for both branches of Parliament, Chamber and Senate. I have given notice to President Gentiloni of the sign of discontinuity, that as Forza Italia we have recorded with favor, represented by the will to leave to Parliament the initiative on the rule queen of the rules of the game: the electoral reform. A discontinuity that we have not had the chance to find, however, in the formation of this new - it is to say - Executive. A discontinuity that we would also like to see in all the relations between the Commission and Parliament, in particular not only with the oppositions: enough impositions, enough confidence at all levels pushed and enough excessive recourse to the decree-laws. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Now, perhaps ironically, this House, which has been the protagonist and the subject of a wrong reform, has an extraordinary opportunity. What I do to you is a proposal, on behalf of Forza Italia, or, if you prefer, a challenge that I will present to you: if we do not lack the will, we have the possibility to restore legitimacy to politics. Alongside the electoral law, the Senate can address the issues of party reform and primary regulation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senators Compañera and Fucksia]] In a short time we have the opportunity to write together rules to ensure that the internal democracy of the parties is guaranteed and the parties return to represent the recognized structures of politics, understood in the highest sense. We also have the opportunity to make sure that the primary ones, surpassing the ranks of unwitting Chinese of the recent past, can be a valid system of selection of representatives in the institutions, taking for example the French experience of the Republicans of Fillon, Juppé and Sarkozy a few days ago. We need certain rules and recognized by all the contenders, with the support of the state apparatus and a result accepted without hesitation by all the parties involved. Laws go to completion of the democratic rule par excellence that we are called to write, represented obviously by the electoral law. If it is true, as I believe, that the next legislature will have to be a constituent, this obliges us to draw up a new electoral law that is able to interpret as faithfully as possible the will of the electorate, while guaranteeing governance. Only in this way, with a fully legitimate representation, due to a strong proportional basis of the electoral law, will the next Parliament be entitled to amend our Constitution in the name of the Italian people. Forza Italia cannot and does not want to renounce its reformative vocation, which is in its DNA, of which never as today feels its necessity and urgency. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, our opposition will be hard, loyal and without discounts. The best possible electoral law must finally be passed on to the voters to put an end to this long series of governments without any popular investiture. I would like to conclude the speech with a brief but inevitable mention, since the timing will not allow the usual communications of the President-in-Office of the Council with a view to the European Council on 15 and 16 December. I hope that our Prime Minister will have a different approach than Matteo Renzi had in the last three years: less extemporaneous provocations and more preparation, less muscle politics and more continuity and vigour in the defence of national roles and needs. That is the only way to achieve real results in Europe. The topics of the next European Council seem to me to be very important and strategic for our country: immigration, security, economy, young people (including the issue of combating youth unemployment) and international relations. On these issues we expect an effective action that the previous Government has not been able to carry out: a strong fight against human traffickers in the Mediterranean to interrupt what has now remained the only and most dangerous major migratory route; a true defence of the European borders; an economic policy that finally marks discontinuity, abandoning austerity in favour of a new model of development; a European plan to facilitate access to youth work, the definition of a common defence policy and, finally, a united European policy that addresses first of all the Turkish issue, the Ukrainian crisis and the issue of sanctions to Russia, but that above all restores to the old Continent the importance and role that competes with it. I appreciate the reference made by you, President, in yesterday's speeches in the House and today in the Senate to the framework of relations between the great powers (the United States, Russia, Europe) that is being defined around the Syrian crisis. It is precisely in reference to scenarios like this, changing and in the making, that Europe and Italy have the duty to return among the main actors, in an international chessboard increasingly characterized by the tension between the United States and Russia and by the fragmentation in several fronts of the internal conflict in the Islamic world between Sunnis and Shiites, from Syria to Iraq (forgotten Yemen), up to the Kurdish theme, the largest people without a State. Two reports have marked these last hours: the liberation of Aleppo and the reemployment of Palmira by the Daesh. Palmira, as you know, is the example of the best preserved Roman city in the world and I hope that in a few hours we will not have to say "was." Aleppo is one of the oldest cities in history, it represents a great example of coexistence between peoples (Arabs, Armenians, Kurds, Circassians, Turks) and religions, with one of the largest Christian communities in the Arab world (about 300,000 of different religious confessions), which have made it a cultural and economic capital, reference of the entire area, with an uninterrupted history of five thousand years, put in danger by armed groups of jihadist militias to whom the international community wanted to give the status of rebels. It is our history, our culture and Europe that cannot continue to stand on the sidelines. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Forza Italia cannot give confidence to the fourth government not elected by the Italian people, but we hope that in Parliament, in this House, certain rules will be adopted quickly, which will ensure that the people's will is respected again. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u123	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party will vote for the government of Mr Gentiloni Silveri, not only for their esteem and consideration of him, but also for precise and decisive political reasons. All the senators know that the Renzi Government, a few hours before the resignation, in this very Chamber, had received a broad vote of confidence, which should have been interpreted as a factor of continuity until the end of the legislature. Conversely, as he had announced with a good speech after the referendum and precisely because of that result, President Renzi resigned: an impeccable decision, in my opinion, for the respect due to a result that saw the people reject the key measure of the legislature. I have read the resignation of Matteo Renzi as an assumption of his personal responsibility for the referendum result: it is a point that particularly honors him [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] This is not the time to draw up the Renzi Government's budget, but it will be necessary to do so, not least in order to respond to so much forgetfulness that is marking the political debate and that has also unpleasingly emerged in this House today. Allow me only to express to Matteo Renzi my most sincere wishes for his personal and political future in a new season of reforms useful to Italy. I note that without its policies and the innumerable measures on the economy, work, school, justice and culture we would not have the many data that show unequivocally a stable reversal of trend, the exit from recession and the recovery of employment. We came from a very negative situation and the results are still insufficient, but today, without those measures, we would be commenting on very different data, if not opposed. As we know, we have only begun the process of exiting from an economic and political, social and institutional crisis, which will still be long and which concerns not only Italy, but the whole of Europe, from France to Great Britain, from Spain to Greece, which invests both the North and the South, both the East and the West of our continent. The rehabilitation work of our country must, therefore, continue and the foundations are there. President Gentiloni Silveri has all the balance and experience needed to lead the government until the elections that Parliament and the political forces demand are held shortly, with a uniform electoral law for the House and the Senate. On the electoral law, all I'm saying is that, to write it, it will serve the contribution of the majority and the opposition and it will serve that it is not thought against anyone, nor in favour of anyone. Mr Gentiloni, you are chairing a government that has been defined in various ways; for the conditions in which the government is born, I too prefer to call it a government of national responsibility. The limited horizon and the next electoral deadline increase and make its responsibilities more demanding. In his speeches, yesterday in the House and today in the Senate, there is one point on which I would like to draw the House's attention: I am referring to his announcement of the Government's commitment to social matters and to the field of rights. There is today in Europe, and unfortunately also in Italy, a serious and serious social issue that weighs on young people, on older people, on the Mezzogiorno, on urban outskirts, on the most difficult citizens, on ever greater poverty. Senator Tronti spoke about it very effectively just now. It is not in the possibilities of a government that is given a definite time to resolve issues of gigantic size, that originated many decades ago and that have gone seriously worsening, not only for an increasingly difficult context, but also for our inability. The Silveri Gentiloni Government can, however, initiate solutions, focus them, urge initiatives, can show with its policy that the country is sensitive to realities in crisis that deserve special attention from Parliament and the Government and measures to meet the needs. President Gentiloni Silveri, very soon you will represent Italy in important international events, you will have to take care of the urgencies of the after earthquake and cope with the emergency of the banking crisis. In these commitments and in many others, you will be supported by the majority that has also emerged in this debate and in which the Senators of the Democratic Party are and will be a convinced and decisive part. I therefore come to some more political considerations about the difficult phase in which the Government begins its journey. The political context in which we find ourselves today presents a profound and showy crisis of democracy in most of the nations of the West. Let us be careful not to underestimate this very delicate aspect of our coexistence: democracy is the main figure of our civilization, the root of our freedoms. Everywhere, even in Italy, democracy has been conquered with effort, with work and even with blood; let us avoid defending it only with words. Losing democracy or even weakening it because of selfishness, the crushing of interests and blindness that makes us ignore the world context in which we move would be an unforgivable crime. Within this general framework, Italy's interests and prospects should be assessed. The clear and explicit result of a referendum, which everyone must accept with loyalty (starting with those in Parliament who voted in favour of reform), has left the great problem of adapting our institutional system to the needs of the radical changes of our time and the need to put our country in a position to withstand the harsh international competition with which we have to deal on a daily basis. All this coincides with the very serious institutional, political and social crisis in the European Union, which, going in the opposite direction to the federal crisis indicated by Altiero Spinelli, is now at risk of disintegration. It is these overall conditions and the awareness of the general state of the problems that prompted the Democratic Party to urge the formation of a government supported by the largest part of the political forces present in Parliament, a government that accompanied the work of harmonizing the electoral laws of the House and Senate and led, immediately after, the country to vote. The proposal of a Government with a large parliamentary base was born from the conviction that, despite the diversity, even deep, that they mark the political forces of majority and opposition, the conditions of Italy and the limited duration of the Government made very useful a but short institutional form of national cohesion. Unfortunately, an electoral campaign that on several occasions has largely exceeded the limits of an orderly confrontation has deteriorated political relations and prevented that initiative from being understood in its proper meaning and had a positive follow-up. It remains the same - and we must all bear in mind - the need to lower the tone of the political debate and show the Italians a less revolted and less instrumentally divided Parliament. There is too much vulgarity around, disguised as a certain politics, disguised as a certain journalism, disguised as a certain satire. It is our duty to show the country a Parliament where the political struggle can recognize the boundaries of civil confrontation. I say this with great courtesy, first of all to you, Senator Montevecchi, who today, with his words outspoken and in many unfounded points, with his signs has certainly not given a beautiful spectacle of political seriousness. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups and Senator Bencini.]] These are the prerequisites that led to Mr Gentiloni Silveri's statement by the Head of State and the subsequent formation of his Government. A wise choice, that of our President, who guarantees the continuity of a foreign policy, which is decisive for the stability of the country, and ensures a loyal presence towards the European Union, but which, in the wake of the Renzi Government, is also very demanding in terms of development and employment policies, the management of migration, an increasingly vigorous maturation of Europe's political integration process. To Mr Gentiloni Silveri, whom we thank for the service he is preparing to carry out for our country, we want to make our best wishes for good work, knowing well that the success of his Government serves Italy and not the majority who support it, but also that its difficulties would be of very little use to the opposition and would do very badly to Italy. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and Senators Bencini, Buemi and D'Ascola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u125	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u126	SACCONI (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I recognise that your government is a necessary one. In fact, political forces have a duty to correspond, already in this legislature, to the reasons for a referendum so indicative of the will of the nation, seeking with good will a common denominator on the rules and criteria of representation in a democracy that we must want more inclusive. Societies understandably do not want to be governed by organized minorities. The same stability that these can guarantee on the basis of massive electoral prizes is then called into question directly by the people. At the same time, however, you are in continuity with the previous experience of Government between different, which has long exhausted the emerging reasons on which it was born and which, as far as I am concerned, cannot have any prospect. I think that, at the basis of all public action, those principles of national tradition that the old and new left daily question: life, the natural family, educational freedom should be re-proposed. I will give an opinion on the individual measures which are free and responsible, as well as I will participate in the reconstruction of a conservative, liberal and popular culture and political offering, as such a strictly alternative to the left. For these reasons I will not participate in the expression of the vote of confidence. [[Ironic applause from Senator Lo Giudice.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u128	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u129	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I have lived a dream: that of helping to change our country, as it was in 2006. The people have decided and we must take note of this. Any reform hypothesis is now closed on the political agenda. They wanted less parliamentarians and today we have more ministers. This government is born on bases that I cannot and do not want to share: an adjustment of the balance within the majority party in a congressional perspective and a conservation of armchairs useful to manage a self-referential power. The result will be that citizens will increasingly turn to a populist and willful drift. I am sorry, Mr Gentiloni, because I have great respect for you and I have had the opportunity to appreciate you as an excellent Minister for Foreign Affairs. In my personal capacity I therefore announce my vote of no confidence to this Government, a vote that for many does not matter but that for my conscience as a free man has so much.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u130	Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, first paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote with appeal to Government no. 703, tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller. I would remind you that every senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote under the Presidency. The senators in favour of the trusted motion will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will respond accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Fazzone is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Fazzone. BERGER, secretary, makes the appeal. [[Ironic applause from Senators Bignami and Casaletto at the time of the expression of Senator Molinari's vote. Senator Girotto expresses his vote with a sticker on his chest, bearing the words: "20 Millions No". Applause from Senators Buccarella and Tavern]] CARDINALI (PD). Take that sticker off! [[Other Senators of the 5 Star Movement Group express their vote by parading under the bench of the Presidency with a sticker on the chest bearing the same inscription]] . The senators: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Battista, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cattaneo, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippi, Di Giorgi, Findin, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Favero, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippini, Filippini, Finpinchi, Fincchiar, Fincino, Fincino, Fincino, Finciano, Fisoro, Fisoro, Fisoro, Fingori, Fingori, Forni, Forni The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Amorus, Aracri, Aracri, Augello, Azollini Barozzino, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertacco, Bignami, Bignami, Blund, Boccardi, Boccardi, Bottici, Bruni, Bottici, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Caliendo, Bell, Cappellett, Cardiello, Carraro, Casale, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolilli, Cioffi, Compagna, Crimi D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petrino, De Petris, De Siano, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolino, Cioffi, Cioffi, Compaffi, Compagna, Crimi D's Crimi D'Alì, Crimi Gaetti, Comp, Comp, Comp, Compa, Compaffi, Compa, Compa, Crimi Gazzi, Crimi Gazzi, Gal, Gal, Gal, Crimi, Galam, Crimi, Galam, Crimi, Crimi Ga, Gal, Gal, Chrs, Galam, Galelli, Chrs, Gal, Ga, Gigol, Gamelli, Gamellielli, Ga, Gigol, Martelli, Martelli, Gastri, Gasparti, Gasparti, Gasparti, Gaspar, Gaspar, G Gasparri, G Gaspars, Giapar, Gia, Gia, Gia, Gia, Gia, Geats, Ghe, Ghe, Ghe, Ghe, Ghe, Geatio, Georgi, Georgi, Georgi, Georgi, Georgi, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Mavol, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario, PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote with an appeal on the vote of confidence No. 703, tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller: [[Senators present 269 Senators voting 268 Majority 135 Favorable 169 Contrars 99]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u133	GIROTTO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. Aleppo, Aleppo, Aleppo. The coup de grace on the city is being consumed with episodes of revenge, summary executions, massacres of civilians and children are not being spared. [[Brusio.]] I ask you to pay attention because it is a massacre that has been taking place for many months. In the last two days, however, there has been a revival and humanitarian organisations have seen an increase in bombings. There are heartbreaking images showing that chemical weapons, such as white phosphorus and chlorine, may have been used. We have news of about a hundred children, besieged in a building in the east of the city, in which very heavy clashes are taking place. They are verified sources, we are not talking about hypotheses: there are - I repeat - many verified sources and there is no misunderstanding. It is a dramatic situation in which civilians, children, know that the next bomb or bullet to the head could be for them; they are much worse off than the rats in the cage, they are waiting for an atrocious end and they are not doing as much as they should to stop this massacre. Here human rights are trampled on and erased in the name of military and political reasons that, we know, are screens because behind, as always, there are the economic reasons for an international geopolitical chessboard where there is need for gas, oil, raw materials. On the basis of this, the massacres continue. We are already talking about 300,000 human lives: an average city. 300,000 human lives have already disappeared, an exodus of millions of people. The international community is watching with guilty silence, unable to intervene. Yesterday there was a ceasefire, but this morning it has already violated. Here, Aleppo is the tip of the iceberg of hundreds of situations of massacres and very deep lawlessness. Mine wants to be an appeal to all institutions, national and international, to stop these massacres, because they are responsibilities that also belong to each of us. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u134	The Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups shall be convened on Tuesday 20 December at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u135	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-734.ana.u136	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 20 December, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.11 a.m.
