ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 12 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u10	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, the next item on the agenda for today's sitting is an amendment to the Special Statute of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. We oppose this choice made by the Conference of Leaders and the Presidency. Moreover, it seems to us that to modify the Statute of that Region when we are still waiting to examine a measure that concerns the passage of the Municipality of Sappada from Veneto to Friuli-Venezia Giulia is something that cannot be approved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, this can be said by intervening in the substance of the measure, the order of business is this. BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). We come to the point by saying that this solution... We'll get to the debate on the substance. BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). It leads us to say that the urgency is called... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u11	Thank you, senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u12	I communicate that on 16 May 2016 the following bill was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Home Affairs, the Law of Decree-Law No 67 of 16 May 2016 extending the international missions of the Armed Forces and Police, development cooperation initiatives and support for reconstruction processes and participation in the initiatives of international organisations for the consolidation of peace and stabilisation processes, as well as urgent security measures (2389).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u15	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to ask you a few seconds to recall a great European, Italian and Sardinian artist, Pinuccio Sciola. Beppe Severgnini says of him: "Pinuccio Sciola was a rocky man. Or an anthropomorphic rock, do it yourself. He had solid legs, muscled arms, strong hands, strong hair, firm look. It wasn't small: it was concise. The summary of Sardinia. There are artists who resemble their own land, others who could be born and raised anywhere. Pinuccio Sciola was Sardinian until the last molecule. The Sardinian sculptor disappeared on May 13 at the age of seventy-four. Of him, who gave lustre, like others born in Sardinia, to Italy, one must remember above all the deep sensitivity towards the roots of humanity, which sink into the earth and become blackened in the rock. The stone, through its imposing work, not only animates itself in the figure, but speaks with the most natural of the music, each with different sounds. The stones of Sciola, carved with deep cracks, are implanted throughout the world, from its San Sperate, the village of the murals, to Argentina, to Tokyo, to the Garden of Peace of Assisi, to Rome. A great Sardinian, European artist, as Arturo Quintavalle says, whose works cross the world even though he chose not to be an artist on the market. To him goes our memory, our gratitude, our homage: ariosu, Pinuccio. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u16	The Presidency supports Senator Uras' words of condolence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u17	The next item is the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1289-B, which was first approved by the Senate and the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, in the second resolution, the draft constitutional law, after the general discussion, will be submitted only to the final vote for approval as a whole, subject to explanations of vote. I also warn that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, in second resolution, the constitutional bill will be approved if in the final vote it obtains the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the Senate. The rapporteur, Senator Russo, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text before this House, which was adopted at first reading in the two branches of Parliament, was defined by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs after a broad examination, starting with two proposals, of the first initiative of Senator Pegorer, the second initiative of the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. We are therefore called upon in the second resolution to make a final decision on the measure, without any possibility, as is known, of making amendments or making proposals for deletions. The object of the bill - I would like to stress this and remind the Assembly - is the amendment of the Statute of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, adopted by constitutional law, with the aim of abolishing the Provinces, adapting the regional order to the process of institutional reform, aiming, among other things, to simplify the system of local authorities. Secondly, the draft law aims to allow the establishment of metropolitan cities, also in this case in clear consonance with what is planned at national level. The text also contains other provisions which I shall briefly try to summarize. First of all, the first article, added during the first reading examination to the Senate, amends the first paragraph of Article 2 of the Statute, which defines the regional territory, in order to adapt it to the administrative changes that have occurred over time. In the new text, in fact, it is specified that the Region includes the territory of the current provinces of Gorizia, Udine, Pordenone and Trieste. Article 2 instead amends Article 7 of the Statute on the legislative authority of the Region, establishing that the Region can establish, with new laws, Municipalities also in the form of Metropolitan City. The new Article 10 of the Statute, as amended by Article 3 of the draft law, also provides that the State may delegate by law the exercise of its administrative functions also to the metropolitan cities. Article 4 replaces Article 11 of the Statute concerning the exercise of administrative functions by the Region. The provision deletes the term "Province", inserts the reference to the metropolitan city body and adapts the text to the principles of Article 118 of the Constitution in the matter of subsidiarity. Article 5 amends the second paragraph of Article 15 of the Statute, concerning the passive electorate for the elections to the Regional Council, in order to reduce the age for the exercise of the right of passive electorate for 25 years, as in the current text, to the age of majority. Article 6, in amending Article 27 of the Statute, concerning the legislative initiative, decreases the number of signatures required for the submission of a regional draft law from 15,000 to 5,000. Articles 7, 8 and 10 amend Articles 51, 54 and 62 respectively of the Statute in order to include, in the new definition of the local authorities of the Region, the municipalities in the form of metropolitan cities. The areas of intervention are as follows: Article 51 of the Statute concerns the revenue of the Region and the possibility of establishing own taxes, Article 54 provides for the possibility for the Region to allocate to local authorities a share of regional revenue, while Article 62 concerns the functions of the Commissioner of Government in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. Article 9 replaces Article 59 of the Statute, establishing that the municipalities, also in the form of metropolitan cities, are the basis of the local authorities of the Region. They are compulsory automaton bodies with their own statutes, powers and functions, in accordance with the principles laid down by the Constitution and the Statute. Article 11, which announces Article 66 of the Statute, allows the Region to decentralise its offices in the district corresponding to the jurisdiction of the Pordenone court for administrative functions. Finally, Article 12 laying down transitional provisions provides for the abolition of existing Provinces of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, starting from the date established by regional law and in any case not before the natural expiry of the mandate of the respective elected bodies already in office. With the same regional law will be governed the transfer of the functions of the Provinces to the Municipalities, also in the form of metropolitan Cities or to the Region, as well as the consequent allocation of human resources, financial and instrumental for the exercise of the transferred functions and the succession in the legal relations. In paragraph 3 it is expected that until their abolition, the Provinces will be governed by the pre-existing legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few days ago, in the presence of the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella, in Udine, was celebrated the 40th anniversary of the terrible earthquake that shocked Friuli, which was remembered by our President of the Republic not only as an example of the extraordinary ability of the Friulian people to react to a terrible calamity, but also for the extraordinary administrative experience that allowed the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region and the municipalities concerned by the earthquake to give an extraordinary response, which led to reconstruction in terms that all Italy recognizes. I really hope that on the occasion of this forty years, this reform, wanted by the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, will be the testimony that, where implemented and valued, the speciality becomes an enrichment and a possible model for the improvement of the policies of proximity, representing also in this situation a model for the rest of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u19	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Battista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the draft law of initiative of the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia in our examination, of particular importance and complexity, aims at ambitious objectives: to ensure a timely implementation of the Delrio law and, at the same time, to redefine in an orderly and systematic way the rationalization of the levels of territorial government, bearing in mind the local specificities, as precisely the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. The political debate that took place in Friuli-Venezia Giulia during the course of the iter has raised several issues that can no longer be delegated: the role of the metropolitan cities and of all other levels of territorial government, as well as the value of the autonomy, as regards the management of the primary political authorities of the territory. It is no coincidence that Regional Law No. 1 of 9 January 2006 already constituted a first legislative provision to reorder the system to local self-governments, which intervened twelve years after the entry into force of Constitutional Law No. 2 of 1993, which assigned to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region an exclusive legislative power in the matter of local authorities. We are therefore called today to interact, as the Senate Assembly, with this legislative initiative. It is important that Parliament and the Region deal with the autonomous issues, with the result of integrating the local and parliamentary debate in a synergistic way. Without a doubt, the driving force of the aforementioned law was to configure the second level entities as closely linked by a relationship of political-functional interdependence with the municipalities and their respective territorial districts. I said this because today, with this debate, we not only contribute to a path already outlined, which redesigns the boundaries and competences of the local administration, but we also face the singularity of the territory with an autonomous attitude, which over the years has obtained the specificity in view of the diversity it represents within it. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the new institutional design, which is the principle of subsidiarity, as enshrined in Article 118 of the Constitution, and the same autonomous meaning as the 2001 reform, which has evolved in the light of constitutional jurisprudence, is the cornerstone of the new institutional design. And it is precisely its status, peculiar and close to the demands of the territory, to guarantee - from a future perspective, but now increasingly concrete - easy and punctual access, acquiring new skills and protecting typical territorial and linguistic minorities. My call, therefore, is to focus on the goodness and political far-sightedness of the objectives that the measure sets itself, within a complex framework, characterized by a plurality of regulatory interventions carried out in a narrow temporal context. It should be noted that good work has already been done in previous parliamentary passages, being aware that more could hardly be done, given the current constitutional framework for territorial autonomy. In this regard, I would like to point out that Article 4 (2) of this measure also provides for the compulsory exercise of municipal functions. Therefore it will be the same Region that will have to find a solution of agreement with the various municipalities belonging to the new ordinamental level like the UTI, object of several observations from various municipalities of the Region. In addition, I would like to point out that the amendments to Article 6 reduce the number of voters who sign initiatives for the formation of regional laws from 15,000 to 5,000. Specifically, the amendments proposed by the undersigned and the rapporteur and presented at first reading highlight the political will already manifested by the regional law of 2006; therefore, the metropolitan city is definitively inserted as an element able to enhance the economic, technological, cultural and social potentials of the territory concerned, intervening on the economic development and flows of goods and people, as well as on the territorial planning. It will therefore remain the right of the territory to adapt in this direction if necessary. The amendment of the Regional Statute was a moment of interesting comparison and analysis, which led all of us to better understand the legislative dynamics of the Region, also considering their respective functions with Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Laniece]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u21	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u22	Mr President, distinguished colleagues, today we are not just going to decide on the future of an entire territory, but we are going to write a new page in Italian institutional history. With the approval of the amendments to the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia we are operating an epochal change within the Italian institutional structure. The process of reform that is now investing my Region could, in a very short time, manifest itself also in the rest of the country, therefore I assert without any difficulty that, at this historical moment, Friuli-Venezia Giulia is a precursor of the times. With the removal of the Provinces from the Statute, the Region is putting itself at the vanguard in the Italian institutional reorganization, especially if it is considered that, with the definitive realization of the reform of Title V of the Constitution, the Provinces will no longer be previewed also in the rest of the Country. It must be pointed out that in Friuli-Venezia Giulia the Provinces have already begun to overcome, with a reform of the local authorities that respects the constitutional principles of subsidiarity, adequacy and efficiency. This reform will lead to a new organisation of the regional institutional structure and the improvement of services provided to citizens. It is therefore a complex process, which will lead to an integrated system based on two pillars: the Region and the Municipalities. The Intercommunal Territorial Unions, which are born from this reform, are the direct emanations of the Municipalities - this must be emphasized in particular - that are in the process of carrying out an overall reassignment of the administrative functions in the Region. These Unions will exercise in an associated form municipal and large-area functions, both provincial and regional, thus giving rise to a new form of government of the territory, able to work more efficiently in favor of the citizen. The municipalities will thus be required to work together, generating a whole range of positive processes, including the exchange of good practices and the specialization of services. What the Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia has done with the remodelling of its institutional architecture and the consequent rationalization of the local autonomy is in fact one of the maximum expressions of use of its specialty. Friuli-Venezia Giulia is therefore demonstrating a serious, determined and coherent autonomy, exercising its skills to lead to an efficiency of services and better management of public money. Friuli-Venezia Giulia is therefore an important vanguard of a change capable of improving the quality of life of the resident population. The text that we are going to vote also provides for the possibility of establishing, as has been said, metropolitan cities in the territory of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. It should be remembered that this amending intervention has been much debated and also criticized by the political forces in the Council of the aforementioned Region and I myself find it rather forced, also because the Region has already begun a process of profound change that will lead the Municipalities to work together. The Metropolitan City would therefore run the risk of overlapping with the already established Intercommunal Territorial Unions. It should be stressed, however, that there is no obligation to establish the Metropolitan City and that, under the legislative power in the area of local authorities, the discipline in this area is entrusted to the Region. Well, then, but we can't afford the luxury of wasting more time. Friuli-Venezia Giulia must be able to reason with serenity on its own future and carry out a reform, which will make the organization of its local services more modern and efficient. It is time for courageous choices, such as those made by us. What we are prepared to approve is a good law and it is the autonomous region itself that has asked to approve it as soon as possible. I therefore call on my colleagues to get rid of the delay and I am in favour of this bill, which will enable an entire territory to grow, progress and develop. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u23	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u24	Mr President, first of all, perhaps I would have had the opportunity and the time to close my speech earlier, if you had politely allowed me to make my demands, which were going to reverse the agenda. This has not happened. I think it is right that the Presidency should allow the senators to close their speeches and I address you, Mr Gasparri, who is currently chairing this House. To enter into the merit of the bill, we are absolutely convinced that it is an antithetical operation to the reasons put forward, if not at the limit of hypocrisy, to make today this modification of the Statute of Friuli-Venezia Giulia that leads to the suppression of the Provinces and therefore to redefine the local authorities and their structure. It is certainly a precursor of what has already been defined by national law, but that defines borders without taking into account the request, reiterated in a more than democratic and referendarian way, by the Municipality of Sappada, to pass from Veneto to Friuli-Venezia Giulia. We have seen in this House that the measure relating to this request has been framed and put on the agenda and suddenly, just before the general debate, we have seen it disappear. We believe it is really absurd and almost provocative towards these citizens to make a change to the Statute of Friuli-Venezia Giulia without considering that there is a local community that has strongly required, in the most correct ways possible, and therefore through a constitutional process, the transition to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. If Friuli-Venezia Giulia is reorganizing the vision of its territory, its borders, but also the activity of the local authorities and therefore is preparing the possibility to organize the form of the metropolitan cities, in our opinion, this is an obvious lack of consideration of a reality called Sappada - I stress again - that for too many years awaits its own redefinition. For our part, we strongly call for this matter to be taken up again. In our opinion it is necessary to treat - we are convinced of this even now - before these changes to the Statute of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. We are aware that the political forces, in particular those present in this House, have expressed with their vote in the Conference of the Leaders a strong opposition, of course only and exclusively of a political nature and we do not share this attitude. There have been opportunities for voting, both in this House and in the Conference of the Leaders, in order to be able to listen to these voices, so we strongly ask that, starting from the next meeting of the Leaders, the measure on the Municipality of Sappada should return to being considered and brought back to the Chamber. This passage is a hypocrisy, I repeat; indeed, it is an insult to what has been the process of a community, for which we will fight, beyond any choice that will be made. We will fight for the measure to be examined again in this House and for the courage of all political forces to vote and, in opposition, also to vote no, because in any case there must be courage. Unfortunately, we saw absolutely incorrect behaviour on 16 March, on which we want to return. Returning means confronting us in this House, voting and ensuring that this redefinition of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, at the level of the Statute, is also part of the community of Sappada, which has full right and you should, politically, take note of a choice that must be respected. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in his reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u25	Mr President, I would like to stress the significance of this evening's vote in the Senate Assembly. We are faced with one of the rare occasions when a Statute of special autonomy is submitted to the Senate Assembly and the Assembly of the House for its amendment. In this case the modification takes place because the Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia and the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia have intended to adapt their Statute to a reform wanted by the Government Letta with Minister Delrio, Law No. 56 of 2014, concerning the reorganization of the Provinces with the transformation of the same in agencies of wide area. It is significant that the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia has assumed this determination, because it means being consistent with the process of redefinition of the institutional architecture that has been initiated with that reform and that, with the reform of the Constitution, will see a further significant step. The Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia must be acknowledged and deserved to have courageously assumed the theme of institutional reorganization within its borders, to have imagined, in a reality of 1.2 million inhabitants, that the important levels politically representative - all levels of local autonomy are important, but I mean those politically representative - are the municipalities and the region itself. The intermediate body, which has been changed - it is no longer the Province but will be the Intercommunal Territorial Unions - has supported the state plan of simplification of the picture, without this making those that are the foundations of the Republic of the autonomous; indeed, producing a valorization of the municipal autonomy and, through their unions, giving a form of government that is more directly in contact with the citizens and with the needs that the citizens represent. This has been and is an extremely significant passage and it is important that the House and the Senate have welcomed this reformatory effort of a Special Statute Region. It is important that this has happened; it is for Friuli-Venezia Giulia and for the institutional architecture of the local autonomy of our Republic. That is why I hope and hope that this evening the Senate will be able to give its final vote in favour of this reform proposal. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u26	I address the greeting of the entire Assembly to students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Cardinale Giuseppe Prisco" in Boscotrecase, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. Welcome! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u27	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u30	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to reiterate what I said at first reading, namely that our Group is completely opposed to these rules which will be approved by the Senate Assembly this evening, as is the wish of the Undersecretary Bressa. We do not agree because it is another piece that goes in addition to that political-administrative disaster, which from Delrio law onward you have caused and are causing to this country. Specifically, as far as Friuli is concerned, it is very simple: you want to cancel the four Provinces to create 17 Unions of Municipalities that will in fact become mini Provinces. However, the substantial figure is another. Regardless of our opposition as a North League, I want to subtlely remember that in an account, which I might even call a pannometric, of the CGIA of Mestre, it is said that the costs will go from the current 45 million euros to about 65 million. And that's not what I'm saying, it's not what the League says, it's the CGIA of Mestre. Well, I would have liked to have heard, this evening, from the Undersecretary or the rapporteur, a judgment, an opinion, also a justification for these figures which I consider to be important. Maybe they were wrong, or maybe we misunderstood, but I think this passage is significant, because at the basis of the choice, from our reckless point of view, of the Delrio law, to arrive today at the Statute of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, there is the will of the Democratic Party and President Renzi to say that you have to cut costs and armchairs. But the plastic representation of what we will have in the future is exactly the opposite: the increase in costs. Let me give an example: we have seen and know for sure that the management of the roads will pass to the Region in this case, and here too we will have an increase of expenditure - they say - of 95 million euros. These are data we have found and no one has ever denied them; we would have expected at least a denial from this point of view. It is clear one thing, which is very clear to us: at the basis of everything there is absolutely no calculation, a serene and clean plan to have what you have declared, namely an improved political-administrative system and excellence in the future, but a clear plan, that of depotentializing and sterilizing the local body to centralize everything in Rome and in the central state. This is the clear plan that we read and that we have read in all the actions made by the government. I am shocked when I see in this case an inappropriate similarity with what unfortunately happened forty years ago in that land and that in the following years has given us an example of the politics of the territory that will always remain in history. In my opinion, dear rapporteur, if you come from that land, you must have the modesty to understand well what you are doing. God forbid, but if for any reason such an emergency should ever arise, with what you are creating it will be very difficult, regardless of the DNA that distinguishes the people of that land, to be able to replicate what has been done in the past. Because the administrative system that you are compromising puts in strong question every action on the territory, and at the base there is a very clear design; you are handing it over to the country and we are seeing it with all the Provinces. Unfortunately, we have half-service presidents, dear Bressa. I can see that in my mountainous province and so much flagship, in which there are already problems, unfortunately. They're Provinces that worked. We've been administrators, and I can afford to say, dear Bressa, that I've been an administrator in that province. But today I can see, given the hand, that it no longer works, it works much less well. What will the future reserve for us? I don't know. I am sure of one thing: there is a future written for you and we will read it together next autumn, in October. Don't worry about it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u33	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, this proposal for a law aims primarily to abolish the Provinces and to establish an institutional framework covering two levels of government: the Region and the Municipalities. The Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia had approved the proposal for a constitutional law in order to reorganize the system of local autonomy according to the principle of vertical subsidiarity, but also of adequacy. In fact, the municipalities, which are the institutional levels closest to the citizens and who know more about the problems and needs of the territory, should be invested with greater responsibility. For the Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, therefore, it is necessary to outline a more rational system that contemplates only two levels of political government, expression of popular sovereignty, that is, the Region and the Municipalities. The proposal to amend the Statute is, in fact, necessarily to be read together with the reform of the local government system, carried out by the Regional Council of Friuli, that is, the so-called reform of the territorial units intercommunal. With the constitutional reform that we are about to vote on, Parliament is discussing the repeal of the four provinces, while in the meantime the region is setting up 18 new bodies. The draft law, initially presented by the Regional Council, provided for the modification of the Statute of the Region in the matter of local authorities through the abolition of the Provinces alone. During the first examination in the Senate, with reference to the establishment of new municipalities, it was envisaged that these could also be established in the form of metropolitan cities, with an extensive interpretation, let's say, of the will of the Region itself, expressed unanimously, and moving away from the model of simplification, savings and deburocratization. This leads me to a more general reflection on the exorbitant number of metropolitan cities born from the Delrio reform, which seems chaotic and unsatisfactory for at least three reasons. First, it has foreseen the automatic transformation of entire provincial territories into metropolitan cities without any consideration for more objective criteria, such as the levels of population and urbanization, attraction of commuting flows and mobility in general, presence of productive functions of value. Secondly, it has introduced the possibility of increasing the number of metropolitan cities to a great extent. Finally, it de facto assigns the new entity the same functions as the Provinces, with few additional powers and provides for a weak governance mechanism entrusted to a metropolitan Council consisting of a subgroup of mayors and advisers from all the entities involved. The same original concept, which has been discussed since 1990, is thus distorted as a metropolitan city, which becomes a mere place of consultation between the municipalities, each of which has its own functions in its own territory. For a reform whose aim is to re-launch the country's competitiveness through the improvement of institutional efficiency the result is decidedly modest. More generally, it is all the reform of the Provinces that is making water, because the Provinces have not been abolished pending constitutional reform: in fact the number of local administrators has been multiplied and there have been certain increases in costs, administrative paralysis and decision-making complications. Not all reforms, therefore, have positive implications in themselves. The constitutional bill abolishing the Provinces in Friuli-Venezia Giulia has at least the merit of abolishing them really, even if it is foreseeable a phase of passage of deliveries between agencies of complicated implementation, that we hope will be managed better than what happened at national level. The abolition of the Provinces, however, goes in the direction advocated by almost all political forces and, therefore, especially taking into account the fact that the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia expressed itself unanimously on this point, I announce the ALA Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u36	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I will make a brief speech. We consider the proposal to amend the Statute of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, which in fact reduced to two levels of government (Comuni and Regions), frankly very little inspired by the view of respect for the principle of subsidiarity. We also note some confusion from the point of view of the institutional arrangements and of the government of the territory which, I believe, will, in our opinion, cause many difficulties in the future. For all these reasons, we shall abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u39	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the merit is not particularly interesting and that is also a reason to be quick. It is simply the adaptation of the autonomous regime of Friuli-Venezia Giulia to the principles of the so-called Delrio law. What is very interesting, in fact, about this matter is the procedure and all that lies behind a change that, in substance, is not contested at all. In this regard, it may perhaps be simply said, very briefly, how interesting and useful it would be that a competence such as that which the Special Statute Regions have for the organization of their local authorities should also be extended to the Regions with ordinary statutes. We believe that the abolition of the provinces is not exactly the same in Lombardy or Molise. It would therefore be all the more important for ordinary regions to have this competence. Fortunately, at least the regions with special status have it and it is not particularly disputed that we are adapting to a principle on which there is a broad consensus. The basic question concerns the procedure for revising the Special Statutes. Does the Regional Council simply have the power of initiative? Is there sufficient guarantee for the principle of specialty given by the need to have a constitutional majority in Parliament? Or can this majority also go beyond the limits of the pact principle, which is also the basis of special autonomy, invoking the principle of Parliament's sovereignty? Perhaps some will remember what happened precisely with the proposal to amend, structural in this case, the Special Statute for Friuli-Venezia Giulia, drawn up also with a regional convention, then taken over by the Regional Council and finally presented to Parliament and then absolutely massacred in Parliament and completely stranded. This was, among other things, the only attempt so far to adapt the Special Statutes after the 2001 Constitutional Reform. No other special Statute has been amended, not even this, thanks to these procedural rigidities. This has obviously led to the creation of a problem with special self-governments in this country. All ordinary statutes were amended after the revision of Title V in 2001. No special statute has been amended. That should give us some thought. The problem will mainly arise with constitutional reform if it comes into force. While providing for an even more favourable clause for special self-governments, because the revision of the statutes will take place prior to agreement, the question arises whether the latter can constitute an absolute veto on the part of the special self-governments, or whether Parliament should, in any case, keep its last word on the matter. Do we need a uniform procedure for the revision of the statutes or not? How can the balance be ensured between the pact principle, on the one hand, which, even by constitutional jurisprudence and by unanimous doctrine, is the basis of the specialty, with the principle of Parliament's sovereignty on the other hand? It is difficult to impose absolute veto powers on a Regional Council when it comes to changes voted by a qualified majority by Parliament itself. Obviously there is a gap within our order that will have to be addressed sooner or later. In this case, the problem does not arise. This text is widely shared in substance, it is also a compromise in the procedure, because it results from the merging of an own-initiative text of the Regional Council and a text of parliamentary initiative. However, the problem remains, and in the debate on constitutional reform we have seen it in a very serious way, a systemic conception of the specialty which also affects 20% of the regions, 15% of the population and almost 25% of the area of the national territory. This issue is extremely important. This is not the place to deepen it, but at least it can be a useful opportunity to recall a gap, even conceptual, that we have been carrying around for too long and that would be the time to face in a complete way. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u42	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, in the 1990s the laws of the Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia and the State attributed to the Provinces increasing and important functions (active labour policies, protection and promotion of linguistic minorities, civil motorization, etc.), which were followed by an increase in the resources available to them. The so-called Delrio law has completely redefined the role of the Provinces, identifying them as large-area entities with fundamental functions related to planning and planning in the fields of environment, transport, school network, etc. Therefore, they are essentially agencies with a role of service to local communities and their citizens, on the one hand, and to municipalities and other local authorities, on the other. The draft constitutional law under consideration is aimed at modifying the Special Statute of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region in order to eliminate any reference to the term Province and to create a system of local public authorities based on only two levels of political government: the Region and the Municipalities. The draft law therefore intervenes in the field of local authorities, the passive electorate in the regional elections and the legislative initiative of the people. It should be noted that Friuli-Venezia Giulia has the exclusive legislative power in the area of the local authorities and their districts. This exclusive power is bound solely to the observance of certain constitutional principles and to the limitations which the State legislature also imposes. The text of the draft law in question was approved by the Regional Council in January 2014 with the unanimous vote. During the first reading examination, the Commission carried out a series of informal hearings on the subject, mainly because of the many profiles relating to the relationship between sources of law and, in particular, the particular procedure for amending the Special Statutes. At the outcome of this preliminary phase and at the end of the general discussion, it was decided to adopt as the basic text for the follow-up to the examination the draft constitutional law n. 1289, of initiative of the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. The aim of this regulatory intervention is to create an institutional system of the local public authorities, based on two levels of political government, expression of popular sovereignty: the Region and the Municipalities. Parliamentary approval of this reform will allow for a substantial change in the institutional structure, in which the essential levels of community services can be better guaranteed by territorial aggregations able to balance the principle of subsidiarity with those of differentiation, constitutionally established, and to harmonise the reasons for local autonomy with those of simplification and efficiency. In order to achieve these objectives, the People's Area Group will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and from Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u45	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, we have good news, because undersecretary Bressa finally admits the lie of the government: the Provinces are not abolished, but transformed. We have already seen this transformist illusionism applied with the funding of the parties, which has not been abolished, but replaced with indirect financing and also in the deforma of the Senate, which is not abolished, but will retain 90% of its costs and will simply be removed from the will of the electoral citizens. The Undersecretary says that the amendment of the Statute of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region respects the so-called Delrio law. Thus there is the paradox that a law of constitutional rank intervenes as a sanatorium of an ordinary law. We have seen the same thing done with the reform of the Constitution, used to heal a liberticidal electoral law, among other things agreed in a back shop. The Undersecretary also boasts to replace the Provinces with smaller bodies, but forgets to tell us that at the top of these new agencies will be placed a manager with an annual salary of 150,000 euros. The Undersecretary does not say that the process of this bill has affected the popular will expressed by representatives of the Friulian and Julian citizens, who have proposed a bill to Parliament. But this Parliament and this majority felt obliged to make that text worse. The legislative examination, in fact, was activated following a proposal for an initiative law of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region itself, on the basis of a document that that same assembly had unanimously voted, from the PD to the 5 Star Movement, from SEL to Forza Italia, passing through the other civic lists. In that bill, only two levels of administrative and territorial governance were recognized: the Region and the Municipality. Instead, you wanted to enter a new third level: the Metropolitan City; indeed, the Metropolitan Cities, because the text opens up the indeterminate possibility to start others. It is, moreover, a metropolitan city wanted only by the Municipality of Trieste, which will be hegemony and uneven compared to the other small municipalities incorporated, who want to maintain their autonomy and territorial and political independence in the management of the territory, because they have a different urban reality, a different dimension also from the cultural point of view, because in these municipalities there is bilingualism. In addition, the Metropolitan City is the provincial level with an increase, namely the fact that the political bodies will not be elected by the citizens, but appointed by the parties. My colleague Russo is a sign of no, but his words are worth little: paper sings and villan sleeps! Moreover, we have already seen (and we have a confirmation of this) the attitude of the Democratic Party to appoint itself representatives in the institutions, demonstrating that it wants to reduce the popular will more and more. The constitutional reform, in fact, rejected by almost all the major Italian constitutionalists (former presidents of the Constitutional Court, magistrates, university professors of the major universities of our country) also provides, as we know, a Senate appointed by the Regional Councils. The reform of the Provinces and the Metropolitan Cities has provided that the relevant councils are appointed by the same municipal councilors already elected in the Provinces (elects who appoint elected). However, in this passage the games of power of the secretariats will have control over everything, therefore in defiance of the principles of the European Charter of Local Autonomy, signed by Italy in 1985 and ratified by Law No 439 of 1989 which, in Article 3, stipulates that the councils and assemblies of the local autonomy are elected members by free, secret, equal, direct and universal suffrage. The second confirmation concerns the schizophrenic attitude of the Democratic Party, split inside and shattered between national level and territories, as demonstrated by the last experience of the referendum on oil drilling, wanted by many regions with a PD majority and opposed by the national secretariat of the PD itself. Similarly, in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Region governed by its Deputy National Secretary and leading exponent of that party, Debora Serracchiani, the PD votes a text and the national party overturns it. In this case we are precisely paradoxical because, after the changes, the Council of a Region with autonomous statute was not even worthy of an institutional transition. For us of the 5 Star Movement the line is clear: we have always opposed and will continue to do so, not only in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, to the intermediate institutional bodies between Municipalities and Regions and we believe that it is always the citizens who have to elect their own legislative and administrative bodies. Moreover, to that of the Metropolitan City (of the Metropolitan Cities), we go to add another mockery, of which I mentioned, introduced with regional law, that of the UTI (Intermunicipal Territorial Unions), that are not the unions between Municipalities, but bodies established by the Region, defined from above, as from above is established the figure of the general manager, a person whose remuneration reaches 150,000 euros per year. It was useful to clarify, explicitly exclude the re-introduction of the disguised Provinces and these other intermediate bodies, such as the UTIs, and, on the other hand, Mr President, there have been opposing changes to this bill. These changes, as well as the centralist method used to make them, cannot fail to affect the judgment of a text that, originally, also had appreciable innovations; I am referring to the lowering of the age limit from twenty-five to eighteen years in order to be elected and to the decrease from 15,000 to 5,000 of the number of signatures necessary for the popular legislative initiative: when the vote is taken away from citizens, as happens in the metropolitan city, these could be improved appear, unfortunately, as compensation too partial. In view of this, the 5 Star Movement therefore declares its abstention vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u48	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are faced with a measure which, first of all, would have been more logical to postpone until after the constitutional referendum. It is, in fact, a measure that substantially, alongside other secondary things - abolishes, so at least says the title (but as often happens for the laws of this Government, the title contains something tempting, then the text is quite different) - the Provinces. But if the Constitutional referendum were to be approved - for the general misfortune and certainly not for the problem of the Provinces - this body would already be abolished at national level; therefore, it is a kind of zealous access, probably because the President of the Region is vice secretary of the Democratic Party. Therefore, first of all, it would have been more logical to postpone the examination of the text until after the referendum, also because the abolition is anything but immediate, and it will happen when the Provinces currently elected expire, so there is no particular hurry: doing so now or in November would change little. Secondly, we have - and this is also interesting for all of Italy, certainly not only for Friuli-Venezia Giulia - a taste of what would happen if this type of reform of the local government system also contained in the constitutional reform. "Abolished the Provinces!" they would write the titles: very well. In Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Region with 1,200,000 inhabitants, with this measure we want to abolish 4 Provinces to create the beauty of 18 territorial intercommunal Unions, which are not actually called Provinces anymore, but are the same thing. Currently, throughout Italy, there is only one entity between the Region and the Municipality and it is called Province; a tomorrow will no longer be called Province - so we all celebrate - but, in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Intercommunal Territorial Union and, in other Regions, maybe, it will be called in another way: a vast area, "a vast area" and so on (each puts its own imagination). So we have this beautiful thing. Transported at national level, instead of just over 100 Provinces, we will have 450 Intermunicipal Territorial Unions. I wonder what is the functionality of an entity that on average will rule just over 60,000 inhabitants (because this will happen) and probably even less, because it seems difficult for me to want to split the city of Trieste, so, excluding Trieste, a million inhabitants will be divided into 17 territorial units, just over 50,000 inhabitants: something that is not optimal at all. But the "intercommunal territorial unions" are not enough; there will also be the Metropolitan City, which was rejected in the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, but which is introduced here. It seems to understand that it is destined to Trieste, a city of great prestige, very important in our history, but of 200,000 inhabitants. In the rest of Europe, as far as I know, there are nine or ten metropolitan cities. In Italy we already have a large number, a dozen plentiful, thanks to the wretched Delrio law. Now we're gonna have at least one more, and then maybe more. We have four Provinces: Gorizia, which is the capital of one of the four "abolendas" Province, has the beauty of 35,000 inhabitants; you could make a beautiful metropolitan city of 35,000 inhabitants: London, Paris and Gorizia (I always say this with great respect for this important city that is dear to all of us Italians). In short, this is a measure that could really wait and that could be done better. I emphasize one particularity: the Metropolitan City hypothesized for Trieste would not have the absurd and monstrous conformation that have the metropolitan cities wanted by the law Delrio, voted by the current majority. For example, in my former Province, now Metropolitan City, the mayor of Turin, elected by 800,000 inhabitants, commands over the 2 million and 200,000 inhabitants of the Province, 1,400,000 of whom do not have the possibility to vote it or not to vote it, nor to distrust it, so there is a metropolitan mayor (already the name is quite strange), who can be distrusted not by the Metropolitan City but only by the City Council. In fact we basically have a metropolis with the colonies, that is the countries where a mayor is imposed chosen by a few inhabitants. Instead, in Trieste, the Province consists of the 200,000 inhabitants of the city and very few other tens of thousands of people, so a similar project could make sense, but it will not be so because it will be necessary the double majority for which there will be the risk that the very few other municipalities that are not Trieste will be able to impose their will on the Municipality of Trieste. This is an extraordinary mess to which Forza Italia will say "no" because we are for serious reforms, for reforms that do things that serve citizens, that respect democratic principles and not for the facade choices that serve to say that Provinces have been abolished when instead they have been multiplied by four. Let me add a little detail: these 18 intercommunal territorial units are imposed on the municipalities. Some municipalities have refused to enter these forced agglomerations and apparently in these municipalities several actions have been implemented by the central (regional non-national) power to induce them to more meek councils, such as police stations and cuts in transfers. I would say that this is an unacceptable procedure and a laughable and possibly pejorative result that is added to the mess of the national law that has badly reformed the Provinces. However, I repeat, this text has a value: it tells us how the so-called abolition of Provinces at national level will work: they will multiply by four. We say no to all this. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u51	TONINI (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of the reform of the Special Statute of the Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia and will make it convinced of the importance that special autonomy has in the reorganization of our autonomous system. Special autonomy has a glorious history in our country. Of course those of the North and those of the South are very different realities, those of the South have other lights and other shadows. In particular, the special autonomy of the North has served to manage in a brilliant way two very complex issues. The first is that of coexistence between peoples of different languages, in border areas that have torn Europe apart in the century that we have behind us. In the Trentino-Alto Adige Region there is a comparison between the Latin world and the Germanic world. In the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region there is even a comparison between three cultures: the Latin one, the German-Austrian-Mittel European one and the Slav one. These are places that have been the scene of immense tragedies in the century that we have behind us: the First World War and then the Second World War, with all the trascichi we know in those terrible years. Well, special autonomy has managed these issues brilliantly and has become a pride for our country: the Italian way to solve these problems. The other great issue they were able to address was that of the mountain people. They were able to manage the transition from a phase in which mountain meant underdevelopment to a phase in which mountain can mean a different way of looking at development. In the case of Friuli, we then have this combination between the mountain and the sea, the port, the opening in the Adriatic. Well, with regard to these issues, we are in an in-depth debate on the future of our institutions. We are now in the midst of a referendum on the future of our Constitution and the Special Statutes are part of this constitutional heritage of our country; they are therefore part of our discussion. I think that today's vote means that we continue to believe in special autonomy, under certain conditions of course. The most important is that the special autonomy is lived as a laboratory of experimentation of more advanced solutions and not as a place of brake and closure compared to change. The second is that they make the admonition of Alcide De Gasperi, in the discussion in the constituent Assembly in January 1948, when the great statesman (founder, together with others, of our Republic) warned the special autonomy to base their autonomy on the ability to do better than the State, spending less and costing less than the State. This is a goal that must be felt as own by all special self-governments. The third great frontier is to experience federalism and differentiated regionalism in our country, such as the one that the new Article 116 of the Constitution, as reformed by Parliament (now we await the definitive opinion of the people), lets us imagine, that is, a world of Regions that collaborate with the State in the new Senate. This House will become the place of meeting and confrontation between the regional legislator and the state legislature, while different forms of autonomy will also be experienced in different territories. Therefore the relationship between the special autonomy and the ordinary autonomy will change, because there will no longer be that step that today differentiates in such a clear way a part of our autonomy from the others, but there will be a continuum, within which different Regions, each in its own way, will find their space in the confrontation between them and in the confrontation with the central government. Here, it is within this path that the reform of the Statute of Friuli-Venezia Giulia is inserted that we vote today, which has at its center the redesign of the system of local powers on two fundamental pillars, that of the Region and that of the Municipalities. It is therefore a model of simplification and modernisation; it is a direction that is good and that is in line with the general orientation of our country. We nourish these sentiments, this hope and this confidence in this important region, which has marked decisive pieces in the history of our country, from the First World War to today. The earthquake in Friuli was rightly mentioned earlier. There is still one unicum of the ability that that people and their autonomous administration had to face, with efficiency and humanity, that passage so difficult. We are attentive observers of this important and interesting laboratory for our country, located in such a decisive border area, and that is why we will vote in favour of the proposal to amend the Statute of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u52	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto professionale di Stato for the services for food and wine and hospitality hotel "Roberto Virtuoso" in Salerno. Thank you for your visit to the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u53	Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required to vote on a constitutional bill in the second resolution. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot for the second resolution on the constitutional bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 256 Senators voting 255 Majority 161 Favourites 167 Contrars 52 Absent 36]] The Senate approves in second resolution with a majority of its members. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u54	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1458, already approved by the House of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Realacci and others deputies; Brats and others; De Rosa and others. The rapporteur, Senator Manassero, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u55	Mr President, Senators, Senators, Mr Undersecretary, the draft law under consideration aims to strengthen environmental policies by consolidating and completing the reform path initiated by Law No 61 of 1994, through which the National Agency for the Protection of the Environment was established and laid the foundations for the construction of structures, professional and technological skills acquired through the study, analysis, monitoring and control of environmental data. The Chamber of Deputies approved the draft law under consideration on 17 April 2014, following an in-depth investigation, which allowed the acquisition of significant cognitive elements, also thanks to the contribution of all parliamentary groups, majority and opposition. The preparatory work carried out in the hearings was a resource for enriching the text, with the contribution of reflections and proposals, carried out during the hearings by the representatives of AssoArpa, the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA), representatives of Legambiente, Greenpeace, WWF, the Medical Association for the Environment, the Head of Civil Protection, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, ENEA and the Italian Enterprise Network. In these two years, many things have happened in environmental matters since the approval of the House of Deputies to date, and I would like to mention two in particular. The first is the Paris International Climate Conference of December 2015, with the approval of the International Climate Agreement, signed by nearly two hundred governments, including China and the United States, the main responsible for greenhouse gas emissions. This agreement will enter into force in 2020, with the commitment of the signatory countries to limit the increase in global average temperature to 1.5 degrees compared to pre-industrial levels. We know that this is not enough and that greater efforts by individual states are needed. However, the Conference certainly called for and highlighted citizens' attention to the state of health of the environment, food choices, sustainable development, agriculture and the reduction of soil consumption. As a second point, in recent months we have approved two important and awaited laws, the one on environmental crimes and the environmental connection. This measure is closely linked to both: with Law No 68 of 22 May 2015, a new title dedicated to environmental crimes has been introduced in the penal code, including new cases such as environmental pollution, environmental disaster, traffic and the abandonment of radioactive material, the prevention of control and the omission of reclamation. We have given the environment the right to be protected and therefore to punish these crimes more severely. We must now consistently activate and ensure better controls, more coordinated, punctual and effective, and this is the objective of this bill. Under Law No 221 of 28 December 2015, the so-called environmental link, rules on waste, reclamation and hydrogeological risk have been introduced. To citizens and businesses we must ensure that controls and authorisations on these matters do not see different speeds and interpretations in the different areas of our country. The draft law aims at the objective of the regulatory recognition of the National System of Agencies for the protection of the environment and the introduction of substantial organisational and operational innovations aimed - in accordance with Article 1 - at ensuring homogeneity and effectiveness in the exercise of the cognitive action and public control of the quality of the environment, in support of policies of environmental sustainability and health prevention to protect public health. Article 2 provides definitions for the application of the law, including in particular the definition of the National System of Environmental Protection Agencies, as a network implementing the essential levels of environmental technical performance (LEPTA) covered by Article 9. The framework of the steering and coordination functions provides for the development of uniform criteria and standards for the performance of the cognitive activity in the field of soil protection and basin planning, the detection, updating and publication of the national geological map, research and control of geological risks, with particular attention to hydrogeological failure. Article 5 provides for the transfer to ISPRA of the functions of the collegial bodies already operating at the Ministry of the Environment, for which a reordering procedure had been initiated. These functions are identified by decree of the Ministry of the Environment to be adopted within ninety days of the approval of the law. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Article 4, the members of the ISPRA bodies shall hold office for four years and may be renewed for a single term of office. The same duration is foreseen for the Director-General's contract. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u56	Colleagues, we have moved on to another subject, but this too must be dealt with with with with respect after the previous vote. Go ahead, Senator Manassero.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u57	Mr Manassero, rapporteur. In the course of the substantive examination at the Commission, Article 8 specified the professional and moral requirements of the Director-General of ISPRA and the Environmental Protection Agencies and certain incompatibility. In addition, a register of the Directors-General of ISPRA and the Regional and Provincial Environment Protection Agencies is to be established and updated at ISPRA, which contains information on the professional requirements and the balance sheet of the Directors of the same Agencies. Article 7, paragraph 1, also gives regional and provincial agencies legal personality under public law and technical-scientific, administrative and accounting autonomy. The regional laws shall govern the structure, operation, financing and planning of the activities of the Agencies, in accordance with the LEPTA and the three-year programme of activities referred to in Article 10. Article 9 regulates the determination of LEPTAs, which constitute the homogeneous minimum level throughout the national territory of the activities referred to in Article 3 which the National System is required to ensure, also for the purposes of pursuing the objectives of collective prevention provided for by the essential levels of health care. In this regard, it is appropriate to recall the definition contained in Article 2 (1) (e) according to which the essential level of performance is defined as the qualitative and quantitative standard of activity which must be guaranteed uniformly at national level, in accordance with Article 117, second paragraph, point (m) of the Constitution, of which the LEPTA constitute the application in environmental matters. Paragraph 2 of Article 9 clarifies that the LEPTA sets the functional, operational, structural and qualitative standards of performance. The related organisational, management and financial aspects, referring to standard costs per type of service, are defined through the adoption of the national catalogue of services: establishing that there are essential levels of technical and environmental performance represents the possibility to homogenize interventions in all regions, guaranteeing to all citizens the same level and the same quality of environmental performance. The modalities of updating the LEPTA and the National Catalog are also regulated, depending on the emergencies and the specific needs of the national territory, and in any case with no more than five years. Article 10 provides for specific three-year programming of activities, while Article 11 regulates the implementation and management of the national environmental information system. Article 12 regulates the national network of accredited workers, while Article 13 establishes the Council of the National System - chaired by the President of ISPRA and composed of legal representatives of regional and provincial agencies and the Director-General of ISPRA - with advisory functions and binding opinion on all acts of guidance and coordination for the governance of the system, including the three-year programme, as well as on the measures of the Government of a technical nature in environmental matters and reporting to the Ministry of the Environment and the State-Regions Conference of the desirability of interventions, including legislative ones, for the pursuit of the objectives established by law. Article 14 requires a special regulation to identify the personnel responsible for inspection operations within the control functions carried out by the System, favouring the principle of rotation of the same staff, in order to guarantee the third-party inspection. The identification of inspection personnel is based on principles of merit, and the regulation regulates how citizens report alleged environmental offences. Paragraphs 5 and 6 govern the powers of inspection personnel, while paragraph 7 provides that the President of ISPRA and the legal representatives of the Agencies may identify, within the staff in charge of inspection interventions, those who work with the qualification of judicial police officers. In addition, Article 17 contains a provision which, following the opinion of the Budget Committee, had to be included in the contact person, which made the statement of the favourable notice conditional on the draft law having an overall clause of financial invariance. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u58	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Siano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at first reading we are called upon to discuss the draft law on the establishment of the National Network System for the Protection of the Environment and the regulation of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research, already approved at first reading in the Chamber of Deputies in April 2014. The Senate Environment Commission has approved an amendment concerning the inclusion of a clause of financial invariance: the only significant adjustment, given the limited number of further changes made to a subject already dusted several times. This clause was specifically designed to allow the transposition, under Article 81 of the Constitution, of a condition laid down by the Senate Budget Commission; an unacceptable choice, in my view, because it is intended to create a new reformulation of the Agencies through the establishment of a national network system without allocating the vital resources for this purpose. In detail, the draft law concerns, precisely, the establishment of the national network system for the protection of the environment; moreover, it will regulate the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research, better known with the acronym of ISPRA. The National Network System for the Protection of the Environment is also composed of the Regional Agencies and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano for the Protection of the Environment. The establishment of the National System aims at the regulatory recognition of the systematic distinctive feature of environmental agencies, and at the entry of concrete organisational and operational innovations aimed at ensuring homogeneity and effectiveness in the conduct of the cognitive action and public control of the quality of the environment. All this goes to support policies of environmental sustainability and health prevention to protect public health. The establishment of ISPRA, as conceived by the amendments to the draft law in our examination, is the representation of a centralist structure that does not in any way contemplate the environmental differences that can be found at regional level. The ISPRA and the possible national network system do not take into account the unequal territorial needs of each region, and it is unjustifiable that all this can be reported on a national scale in a homogeneous manner with regard to qualitative and quantitative activities. The text in question contains many new features. Firstly, the LEPTAs are set up. Many of you, ladies and gentlemen, will be wondering what they are: they are nothing more than essential levels of environmental technical performance guaranteed by the National System, which will create an indispensable comparison period for the planning of the activities of the Agencies. The system will be integrated with several tasks, which are contained within Article 3 of the draft law under consideration, which can be summarized in: monitoring of the state of the environment; control of pollution factors; research activities, transmission to the various institutional levels and dissemination of environmental information to the public; technical-scientific support for the exercise of administrative functions in environmental matters; investigative activities for the granting of authorisations and for the imposition of sanctions, in compliance with the competences of the other institutions provided for in the current legislation; supporting activities in the identification, description and quantification of environmental damage. Article 4 regulates the functions of ISPRA and the profiles of technical and scientific autonomy, research, organizational, financial, management, asset and accounting. ISPRA will also receive the functions of the collegial bodies already operating at the Ministry of the Environment for which a reordering procedure had been initiated. Finally, I would like to mention the Environmental Protection Agencies, whose internal structure and tasks will be of regional competence. They shall carry out the institutional activities necessary to achieve the objectives of the LEPTA in their respective territories of competence. The Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano will have to adapt the founding laws of the respective Agencies to the forecasts of the law, within one hundred and eighty days. The Environmental Protection Agencies will have the freedom to carry out further activities, with the limitation of not interfering with the final achievement of the LEPTAs. If they carry out activities for public or private entities, those activities should be compatible with the obligation of impartiality in the exercise of supervisory and control activities. I conclude by expressing strong doubts about the modalities and evaluations of certain points of this draft law. Positive is only the intention to create a national network system for the protection of the environment, but written and realized badly. We hope that through the discipline of the instruments of public participation we can achieve uniformity between the parties, and that we continue to pursue the path of transparency for the relations between the State and the citizen. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u60	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u61	Mr President, before we go even further into this measure, I would like to express our solidarity here, as the Italian Left, with the workers and researchers of ISPRA, who are currently defending - again this morning under the Ministry of the Environment - the future of ISPRA and also the future of all precarious researchers. It is in fact a bit paradoxical that, while we, after a long time, are finally examining the measure to establish the National System of Environmental Protection, which recognizes to ISPRA a fundamental role of coordination of the ARPAs in order to guarantee to the country a homogeneity of intervention in the field of environmental controls, precisely the operation of ISPRA is once again at risk. Perhaps it is the most serious risk experienced in the eight years since its establishment. We don't want to talk about bankruptcy, but we're very worried. Among other things, the first victims of this situation risk being those precarious researchers who have been working for years and who have made the scientific history of ISPRA, who have worked for the annual reports, who, for example, told us about the contamination of pesticides - it is news these days - in the waters and who have worked on emission registers, monitoring and all environmental emergencies. I hope that, today and in the course of the debate on the measure with the examination of the amendments and the agenda, this House will show caution and, therefore, also commitment to this situation of ISPRA. The measure has arrived - I repeat - alas after a very long time at the debate of the House, but, in our opinion, it is essentially positive and finally reform the sector of environmental agencies, both regional and national, by establishing the national network system for the protection of the environment, which is entrusted with functions of direction, technical coordination, control, monitoring, research, technical advice and training and regulating ISPRA. That is why I think we should pay particular attention to what is happening. The first law on this matter - I would like to remind you - is more than twenty years ago and established the National Agency for the Protection of the Environment (ANPA) and the Regional Agencies, following a referendum that removed the subject of monitoring and environmental controls from the multi-zonal garrisons (ASL) and gave these regional agencies a wider chance of autonomy. Unfortunately, local authorities and regions have all adapted very slowly. All this in these twenty years has been dotted, in the history of our country, by dramatic and continuous events related to environmental disasters, which have gradually highlighted the resistance to a full development of the systems of analysis, monitoring and environmental control. All this has happened, fortunately, in a context of increasing awareness and demand on the part of citizens of real access to environmental information, recognized - I would like to remind you - at international and Community level as a right inseparable from the right to the environment and health. I recall, in addition to the Aarhus Convention, how France has already incorporated this right into the Constitution in 2004 through the Charter de l'environnement. I would also point out that access to environmental data and information is absolutely complementary to the right to participate in decision-making processes affecting the environment. 18.14 (Followed by Mr De PETRIS). The element of information, citizens' access to information and participation is absolutely inseparable from the right to the environment. It is clear that, in this context, it was and is even more necessary today to ensure the authoritativeness of the information that is acquired and disclosed to citizens, also in order to ensure a full understanding of the link between environmental values and health risk factors. One of the most critical issues that has emerged over the years has been the profound unevenness between the functions, resources and mechanisms of the various regional agencies. Just think that in the North, environmental monitoring personnel control 131 square kilometers of territory, while in the south 345. It is clear, therefore, that a reform in this respect is absolutely necessary. It is therefore a good thing that this measure identifies the essential levels of environmental performance (LEPTAs) within the meaning of Article 117 of the Constitution as the level of quality and quantity of activity which must be guaranteed uniformly at national level, and that these levels should be implemented by the National System as a whole (ISPRA and Regional Agencies). The ISPRA will prepare a three-year programme of the activities of the National System, identifying the main lines of action aimed at ensuring the achievement of LEPTA throughout the national territory. The LEPTAs will be determined by successive decree of the President of the Council of Ministers to be adopted within a year. Now, as the reform of the system as a whole is positive in order to strengthen environmental controls, especially in a period of deregulation such as the current one, however, we cannot be silent of an element in our opinion of serious criticality, that is the fact that the law is at zero cost. Among other things, even though the provision approved by the Chamber was clear that there was a clause of financial invariance, it was again wanted to reiterate it again in the passage to the Senate, eventually causing a return to the House and a further lengthening of the times. This is a critical element for us, underlined by the introduction in the Commission of Article 17, which precisely provides for the clause of financial invariance for the application of the entire law by the administrations. However, no other amendments were adopted in the Commission. The oppositions have also taken responsibility for ensuring that there was actually an approval; instead, we are faced with an attitude of a part of the Government not certainly favorable to the provision. How can we expect to reorganise and strengthen such a complex and necessary system without the prospect of new resources? Article 15 on the financing arrangements provides that ISPRA and the Agencies shall carry out their institutional functions within the financial resources available to existing legislation and in any case without any new or increased burden on public finances. That is a point, and I say it to the rapporteur, that we, perhaps even with a commitment to the next law of stability, must absolutely address it. Just as we must deal with the serious financial situation of ISPRA. It is even more dramatic that once again there has been no attempt to find a solution for precarious environmental workers, both from ISPRA and from regional agencies. Especially in the South, this is a critical element. In fact, the provisions of Article 16 seem almost useless where it is provided that ISPRA and the Agencies can undertake the recruitment of staff and the acquisition of the necessary capital goods, with particular reference to the obligation to guarantee LEPTA, within the limits of the financial resources available to current legislation, without prejudice to compliance with the rules of the Internal Stability Pact and the regulatory constraints assumed. I would like to remind you here that, during the examination of the various Ilva decrees, we have dealt several times with the problem of the regional agencies of Puglia. Unfortunately, this problem has not been resolved, thinking of postponing it to this measure, but this time too we will have a further reference. It is clear that it is precisely the scarcity of resources and the regulatory constraints on recruitment relating to the Stability Pact that do not allow the stabilisation of staff who carry out such a delicate task on a daily basis. Again, therefore, I think that the Government lacks the courage and the will to make fully satisfactory and operational measures that are felt as a strong need on the part of society. Therefore, I hope that in the further examination of the measure the Government will put in place this will, with the assumption of a strong commitment on the side of the financial resources and for the stabilization of all the precarious staff. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Degani, the need for a reordering of the environmental agencies system is determined both by the date of the current legislation, dating back to 1994, and by the existing Community and national regulations, which have profoundly modified environmental law and reformed public administration. The Lega Nord e Autonomie group shares the primary objective of the measure under consideration, which is to ensure an articulated and homogeneous discipline for the activities of ARPA and to put an end to the current situation in the different areas of the country, also on the regulatory level, which sees some ARPA carry out tight controls and apply strict rules to operators and plants and other Agencies even close their eyes to obvious embarrassing situations, illegitimate and harmful to the environment and, above all, to the health of citizens. I am thinking, just to mention a few examples, of the so-called land of fires in Campania, the environmental pollution of Ilva in Taranto, continued indifference for years, and the oil scandal in Basilicata. By Law No 61 of 21 January 1994, each Region has set up its own agency in full autonomy and in a differentiated way. Therefore, our system of Environment Agencies is very composite, with Agencies having different tasks, different functions, different organizations and also different size of staff. We therefore agree that there are aspects of the Agency system which need to be reorganized and rationalised and that there is a need at last to stabilise many aspects which have been excessively suspended since 1994. For example, certainly positive - indeed, indifferent - is the forecast of the conduct, by all the Agencies for the protection of the environment, of monitoring and environmental controls in a homogeneous way throughout the national territory and according to the essential levels of the environmental technical performance (LEPTA). This - hopefully - should ensure high levels of environmental quality for all citizens, thus avoiding unfair competition between operators, in view of the high environmental costs required for plant compliance. Entering into the substance of the measure under consideration, the bill approved at first reading in the Chamber of Deputies in April 2014, so over two years ago, with a broad convergence, certainly has many innovative and acceptable aspects. I have already talked about LEPTA and I add, for example, the networked system of accredited laboratories. At the same time, however, the provision does not lack of different - indeed, many - critical, first of all in the method. I would point out that the majority decision was wrong, both in the Commission and - I imagine - here in this House, to arm the text without leaving room for improvement. In our opinion, a clear examination of the gaps in the text had to be undertaken in the light of the many critical aspects of the environmental reality in which we live and of those present today in the Environmental Agencies and, above all, in ISPRA. These are realities that, day after day, in all the regions, especially in the Central and South, emerge by exposing critical situations, worrying and sometimes alarming in environmental matters, with consequent reflection on health. These problems of the text had to be dealt with by the adoption of amending proposals, which were considered to be commendable both by the rapporteur and by the Government in the Commission, many of which were made by the Lega Nord Group. Even though there was no reason for the need to dismiss quickly the armored measure to avoid its return to the House, since the text in the Senate has been on stand by for over two years - before, mistakenly, I spoke of one, but they are actually two years - the armor does not make sense to be today, since, with the final clause of financial invariance introduced, it must necessarily return to Montecitorio. We had to - and I hope we can still - seize the opportunity connected with schizophrenia - and I repeat schizophrenia - of the General Accounting Office of the State, which a year ago gave indication of putting the clause of financial invariance in several articles of the measure and now wakes up by providing a final and overall, creating a messy text, filled with clauses of financial invariance both in the various articles and in the final part of the text. On the criticalities of the text I will go into more detail during the explanation of vote; now I will just illustrate the three main ones. The first concerns financing. The development of transparent and objective mechanisms for the funding of agencies has been launched, but in practice funding has been abandoned for an indefinite period. On this point, it must be clear to everyone that this waiver automatically results in the withdrawal of verification of the proper delivery by the Agencies of the task that the citizens expect from them, especially after the many taxes paid. Not to invest in the sector and not to consider environmental quality as a capital value for the progress and well-being of Italy also economic is not only a short-sighted attitude, but in fact protects other interests, with evidence of lobbying and of what is more illegal, dangerous and harmful in Italy, as is also derived from my experience as a member of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on waste. I wonder, however, how mandatory controls by agencies will be ensured in order to pursue the essential levels of environmental technical performance (LEPTA) without resources. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The second critical point that the Group of the North League highlights is linked to the centralist character of the measure, given the central role that ISPRA wants to entrust with respect to the territorial agencies. This is certified by the forecast of the organisational role of ISPRA on the definition of the activities taking place on the territory and the allocation of the central coordination role of the programming of the regional agencies in relation to the activity of monitoring, control, inspection and management of environmental information. The homogeneous approach to environmental protection in all territorial realities is acceptable. But, in the light of everyday experience, it must find a much more appropriate, realistic and effective response, taking into account the increased technical and operational skills acquired on the ground by the various Agencies; skills and know-how that, with the new text, risk being lost. I would point out that the reform, by failing to implement the ISPRA structure, cannot be a means of regaining, by law, the role it has not been able to play in all the years of existence since 1994, the year of its first institution, to date. Another critical aspect of ISPRA is the maintenance of the nature of a research institute. The new law does not intervene on the research tasks of the Institute and certainly the overlap of the competences will aggravate even more the problems impacting on the organizational structure in terms of rationalization and efficiency and the ongoing protests of the researchers are proving it. The third and last critical issue that I want to highlight in general discussion and that the bill does not solve is the theme of the relationship between Agencies and companies. The issue of the promotion of environmental quality, which is also an essential element in European policies in the management of environmental pressures, is dealt with marginally and poorly in practice. It is clear that the issue of the relationship between environment and health therefore implies the relationship between the Environmental Protection Agencies and the Health Service. Here we must hope for the better integration of the activities of these structures and, where useful and the conditions apply, the optimization of the resources available. But all this must take place in full clarity of roles and in the clear privilege, for the Agencies, of the mission entrusted to them by Law No 61 of 1994. It is not a question of erecting barriers or breaking down the prevention system, but simply of explaining what are the tasks of the health structures that are often implemented only through a commitment of the Environmental Protection Agencies, thereby subtracting resources from their primary functions. In short, it is a question of working to ensure that the tasks of the health structures are effectively and completely carried out, including in the field of prevention, as well as in the expectations of citizens and in the dictates of the Constitution, without the Agency for the protection of the environment being called upon once again to put a piece in it. I am beginning to conclude by saying that, given the armor of the text, we hope, as a North-Autonomous League Group, that at least the majority and the Government can accept the agendas presented by our Group, because on this will depend our final vote on the measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u63	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I go into the contents of the draft law that we need to talk about today (the establishment of the national network system for the protection of the environment and the regulation of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research - ISPRA), I would like to say a few words on a fundamental aspect of this issue. I am deeply convinced that the protection of the environment is one of the priorities for every person who lives on this earth; a land that has been given to us by God and that it would be our primary duty to defend in his name, since the relationship with creation is a fundamental element of human identity itself, as the fruit of man's even deeper relationship with God. Jesus himself gave us parables in which nature was a wonderful and poetic frame, but also a necessary complement to the right actions of a man who seeks the truth in God. As we read in the Gospel according to Mark, in the evocative passage of the sedated storm, who is full of the Holy Spirit is also the degree to enshrine nature, creating a relationship of coexistence made of love and mutual respect, because the Father has given us a garden so that it may be cultivated and guarded, so as to prepare the coming of his kingdom of peace in which his people will live forever. But what has always moved me to the absolute attention to environmental problems is certainly not just my Catholic and Christian faith. I still believe that we must definitely reverse the trend, keeping our Parliament and the secular Government strong, focusing attention on those Christian principles and values to be defended strenuously and without hesitation. It is also the certainty that the territory must be defended, always and in any case, because it is a real wealth, as well as our earthly home, and it is the only possibility that exists to protect life itself. This is even more true for our country, by virtue of its natural, historical and artistic beauties and the cultural tradition it represents in the world. The environmental assault that we see every day through pollution, the unconsulted proliferation of cement and the failure to comply with existing laws is an attack not only on our future, but also on our wealth. Italy must have clear that, in a Western world that has been living for years a systemic crisis and - I am afraid even to say - irreversible, the grandeur and variety of our territory can be a pivotal element, if well exploited, for the future development of our country. It is from this point of view that the draft law under consideration must be assessed. As you all know, this measure has two key pillars: the establishment of the National Network System for Environmental Protection and a new framework for ISPRA, the Institute for Environmental Protection and Research. On the first issue, I would like to start by reminding you that the National System of Environmental Agencies was first merged by the Berlusconi Government in 2008. In this new framework, the National System acquires a number of very important functions, including contributing to sustainable development and the protection of the environment and natural resources, the reduction of soil consumption and the full and complete implementation of the polluter pays principle. In addition, knowingly harming one's own brother is even more serious fault because Jesus said: "Every time you have done these things to one of these little brothers of mine, you have done it to me, for good and especially evil. Life is sacred because even in what appears to be the most insignificant there is always the presence of Christ, as we are all brothers and children of the same God. Article 2 also plays a very important role in the new structure. In fact, it is the task of the network to implement the essential levels of environmental technical performance, i.e. that minimum level of a number of activities such as environmental monitoring, pollution control, research activities and many other things that are mentioned in Article 3 and must be homogeneous throughout the national territory. I would remind you that, in this regard, I had tabled a proposal for a law, No 368, entitled: "Delegates to the Government for the adoption of rules to safeguard public health against the risks of pollution in areas affected by plants, even temporary, for the storage, treatment and disposal of municipal and industrial waste" by 5 June 2013. Unfortunately, this proposal is still unheard of. The network for the protection of the environment, therefore, is indicated as the authority that will have the task of coordinating the activities of all the environmental agencies, but also as the first engine for an effective system of control and monitoring of the Italian territory. The second part of the measure - as we have already said - concerns ISPRA, defining a new legal personality, i.e. society governed by public law, regulating its technical and scientific autonomy and specifying its research profiles, organization and autonomy of assets and accounting. But the bill is not limited to organizational and corporate aspects. In fact, in Articles 6, 10 and 11, it entrusts the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection with a series of steering and coordination functions for the entire National System, leaving it to ISPRA to identify the lines of action to ensure the achievement of LEPTA (essential levels of environmental technical performance) throughout the national territory. The Institute then assumes the responsibility to ensure the implementation and management of the National Environmental Information System, which is even more important, considering that the bill provides, for all local authorities and for all legally recognized environmental associations, the free use of data and even the possibility of making demands on specific environmental values. Now, the whole design of the bill is clearly based on a harmonious design of coordination and greater effectiveness of the network of the National Environmental Protection System. The problem, however, is whether this new system can work. And the first great doubt arises by reading the new article 17, inserted by the Commission in the House, which provides for the obligation of financial invariance for the whole bill. One wonders whether, always respectful of public finances, such a complex and radical reorganization of a neurological sector for our country can be done at zero cost, without even predicting an initial economic effort. We are afraid, therefore, to find ourselves faced with the usual prestigious game of Prime Minister Renzi: a beautiful narrative, effective and convincing, to which inevitably follow weak, useless, wrong or totally ineffective legislative measures; a continuous manipulation of reality, for which the country starts again, but does not move; the employed increase and then it is discovered that it is not true; GDP is impengned, but then actually langue with percentages of zero comma. Another element of the bill that makes us very perplexed is the very structure of the network of Environment Protection Agencies and ISPRA. From what I know, the very concept of network implies horizontality, the substantial equivalence of all components. Here it is built, rather than a network, a pyramid, at the top of which is the ISPRA, which, although placed under the supervision of the Ministry of the Environment, will be the real dominus of the environmental issue; in short, a sort of armed hand of any Government, which will be able to dictate the environmental policy of our country, with very few third-party controls and super parts. Finally, I would like to point out that with this highly centralist reform, there is a risk of flattening in a single minimum standard the excellences that, in recent years, have been formed in terms of research, instruments against environmental abuse, prevention of damage to public health and in many other areas. In short, there is a risk that the LEPTA system, coordinated and controlled by ISPRA, will reduce the various regional agencies to deal solely with the essential levels of environmental performance. And this would be a damage to all those realities that, in various parts of Italy, in recent years have developed professionalism and methods of intervention of the highest quality. I can only conclude, therefore, with my deepest regret, that this is also a missed opportunity. It is true that the Regional Agencies needed a new set-up and that ISPRA had long been waiting for a new legal personality, with new functions and responsibilities. But our environment would deserve a greater effort and better results than those that will bring this useless, if not harmful, bill. [[Applause from Senator Floris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u65	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u66	Madam President, this draft law is of particular importance for a country that wants to pursue an ever higher level of environmental protection, namely the establishment of a national system for the prevention and protection of the environment. The Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) was established by Article 28 of Decree-Law No.112 of 2008 and, therefore, it was perhaps time to put this legislation back into practice. How it has been amended should be the subject of a debate which, unfortunately, especially here in the Senate - perhaps the first reading has been different, in the House of Deputies - has not seen a positive attitude on the part of the Government. Among other things, the Northern League Group has tabled some 30 amendments - not so many, but very detailed and binding - demonstrating its ability to express itself on a number of elements, which have probably led the Government to think that it is rather rigid and not to discuss the substance of a particularly important measure. The text has, therefore, been armored by the majority in the Commission and will probably be the same in this House. Only one amendment, which added Article 17 to the financial invariance clause, was adopted. By entering into the substance of the measure, it establishes the National Network System for the Protection of the Environment, formed by the National Institute for Environmental Protection and Research and by the Environmental Protection Agencies of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces and includes rules establishing and governing the National Network System for the Protection of the Environment. The functions of ISPRA include, inter alia, the determination of the essential levels of technical and environmental performance. These are qualitative and quantitative standards of activities which must be guaranteed uniformly at national level and represent the mandatory benchmark for the establishment of the Agency's business plans, in order to ensure the homogeneous activities of the National System. The latter is entrusted, among other things, with an articulated series of functions of direction, technical coordination, control, monitoring, research, technical advice and training. As I said, since 2008, a number of issues have made it necessary to reorder the current Environmental Agencies System. This measure, among other things, dates back to 1994. As a Group of the North League, in addition to enabling the majority to examine amendments that are certainly improving the text, with our colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies and, here in the Commission in the Senate, with Senator Arrigoni, we have tried to pay particular attention to ensure an articulated but homogeneous discipline for the activities of the ARPA, putting an end to the current situation in the different areas of the country, which, although with ideas and laws similar enough, clearly did not have the possibility, if not in some points, to interact with each other. And this has happened because each Region has provided to establish its own Agency in the maximum autonomy and in a differentiated way and, therefore, our System of Agencies for the protection of the environment is very composite, with Agencies that have different tasks, functions and organizations and also different dimensions of staff. And it is also understandable, because each Region has particular specificity. What puts us in a position not to be extremely serene about this measure is perhaps the inability to spread a measure, such as that on ISPRA, over the whole territory with a real homogeneity of action. And this also says a lot about the contribution received by some agencies at regional level for problems encountered and with other implications, including very heavy infringements at European level: we remember the land of fires - as my colleague said earlier - and perhaps also the Ilva of Taranto. It is a few hours ago the news of a sort of pull of ears on the part of Europe. Probably ISPRA should also be joined by what was considered a few years ago at school civic education, which could put our country in a position to be truly "the beautiful country." We therefore agree that there are aspects of the Agency System that need to be reorganized and rationalised, even if we fear that the revision of the current legislation should take place in relation to the regional reference regulations for the individual Regional Agencies, always leaving the Region as a supervisory body on the individual Agency. Here I would like to make a statement: if the referendum were not passed, the regions could probably explain a little more the functions that had been assigned to them; otherwise we would probably be faced with a national ISPRA based exclusively in Rome. We therefore consider it useful to restore credibility among citizens on the system of environmental controls and rekindle the confidence of the population towards the institutions, through the application of certain standards and homogeneous environmental limits throughout the territory. And, when I talk about the whole territory, I clearly refer to what I said earlier: to pay attention to environmental problems that have the same homogeneity and, therefore, the same system and degree of control. With this I address a greeting to that mayor who had the strength to demolish certain properties on the coast. I don't mention the name, but he was perhaps a pioneer, who will see more rubble than anything else because of some detractor. Our Group has taken steps to ensure that this attitude towards ISPRA and the measure under consideration is successful. The House voted in favour of the measure, with the idea that some amendments could be taken into consideration in the Senate. And who has had the opportunity, like Senator Arrigoni, to examine the measure in the Commission and to evaluate it in all respects, has clearly highlighted some problems that he has explained in the amendments he has tabled as Senator of the Group. It is therefore unclear what position the Government will take and which will express the majority in the Assembly, since the measure has already passed to the Chamber of Deputies. We have thought that there are indeed some gaps in the parliamentary debate that could now be filled. One of the main points would have been the financing of the system. It is always said that without money they do not sing masses, and this also applies to ISPRA. The current text has frozen the problem of the financing of ARPA, while this, in analogy to the financing of the National Health System, as already appeared in the first drafts of the bill to the House, represents a fundamental point for a true reform of the entire System. Another aspect that is unclear is the coexistence between the nature of the ISPRA research institute and the new coordination tasks of the Regional Monitoring Agencies. The new law intervenes on the research tasks of ISPRA, leaving unchanged the existing legislation, but certainly, the overlap of competences could create problems impacting on the organizational structure in terms of rationalization and efficiency. Madam President, our Group welcomes the networked system of accredited laboratories, which ensures the transfer of information and collaboration between the Agencies, ISPRA and other research bodies, which leads to management economies, and increasingly meets the needs of citizens to recognise these institutions in order to protect the environment in which we live and the potential for development. We think that it would certainly have been possible to do better in this measure. The issue related to the environment is a characteristic part of all the programmes of the North League of all these years and has characterized also the potential that an administration has at local level (it speaks of the municipalities). It is clear that with a strong shoulder, with a strong agency such as ISPRA, we could, in collaboration with local authorities, the regions and clearly the state all, put the territory in a position to remain more untouched than it actually is, in spite of how it has been treated in recent years. I would ask that the adoption of this measure should then pay particular attention to what are environmental issues. It does not remain a mere object of desire, but it can really put our environment in a position to be protected. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iurlaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the draft law that we are examining today certainly represents a significant opportunity for our country to have a national system of environmental protection, which really meets the needs of our times and the demand for health and environmental safety addressed to us by our citizens. In the light of the many problems affecting Italy on this controversial front, it has emerged several times that in the past the separation of health and environmental skills, on the one hand, has focused attention on the protection of the ecosystem and its fragile balances, but on the other, it has probably left the health of citizens relatively undiscovered compared to the impact of activities, whether lawful or illegal. Thus, the balance of Italian environmental policies for the protection of health has often proved to be largely insufficient, as evidenced by some striking cases such as dioxin in Campania, the ILVA case, arsenic in the waters and the growing fears of the population, which lead to what has been called the NIMBY syndrome. Businesses complain about the excessive bureaucracy required by environmental practices; OSH and regional environmental agencies often do not work in synergy and there are still too many prejudices and ideologies, with the consequence that citizens often complain that they do not feel sufficiently protected by environmental factors affecting human health. In fact, there are not rare cases where, even if there are no specific violations of environmental laws, damage to the health of citizens is caused. In this context, therefore, we welcome a measure which enhances and puts into place those specialised expertise dedicated to environmental controls which, from 1993 onwards, have been built and given greater force to environmental controls themselves. In fact, in recent years, there has been a leopard stain: in some regions regional agencies constitute structures of excellence, while in other regions the operation is much worse; moreover, not all regional agencies have certainty of funding, and this is a serious problem. Today, since environment and health are rationally together and it is now peaceful that we must overcome all the interpretative difficulties that may have led Health almost to disinterest in environmental issues, we can only look with confidence at this reform, which confirms the effort to homogenize the activities of the Environmental Protection Agencies scattered throughout the country and to clearly configure the roles and functions of ISPRA. We believe that the most qualifying aspect of the measure is to have seen in the LEPTAs, i.e. the essential levels of environmental protection, the lowest common denominator for all regional agencies. It is a system that interacts with Health and with LEA (essential levels of health care), to ensure the pursuit of the objectives of collective prevention; a system that will constitute a uniform level throughout the national territory for the activities of monitoring, control, targeted research, development of knowledge and dissemination of technical and scientific data, technical and scientific support. Truly this new national system can represent a turning point and a qualitative leap, but never forgetting the containment of expenditure and a more meaningful application of the principle of the polluter pays. Therefore, from our point of view, the approval of this measure is not only important, but also necessary, in order to allow us to work with a better quality; and not only to allow us to meet an important challenge of environmental protection, but above all to cement a relationship between environment and health, which must be greatly strengthened not only in politics and administration, but also in the productive fabric of our country. The environmental problems, in fact, are transversal and relevant in every sector of life. The citizens have been aware of this for a long time and ask us to pay more and more attention to the health of the environment, which inevitably becomes health for the human being and which will increasingly become a demand for food safety and protection of the agricultural environment. So let us welcome this measure. We welcome all the measures to modernise an environmental protection system which, too often and too long, has served a state of inadequacy and of legislative backwardness, which we now have the opportunity to put an end to.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u69	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us is a matter of particular importance in a country that is working for an ever-higher level of environmental protection. The establishment of a national system for the prevention and protection of the environment is not only aimed at harmonising, from a qualitative and quantitative point of view, the activities of the agencies on the territory, the ARPAs, but above all creates an integrated system of controls coordinated by the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research. Historically, first with Law No 61 of 21 January 1994 (the National Environmental Protection Agency) and then with Decree-Law No 112 of 2008 (the establishment of ISPRA), the Environmental Protection Agencies have always been the competent and local institutional body for all environmental issues. In addition, the technical-scientific activities of national interest, prevention, control and surveillance aimed at environmental protection have been integrated with advisory and technical-scientific support to administrations and public bodies. It is worth remembering, in fact, that the Agencies have been established in order to respond in an appropriate and timely manner to the external bodies, both with regard to events with environmental impact and with reference to the rich legislation of reference always in evolution. Therefore, the functions carried out - undoubtedly of a public nature - lead to the systematic application of technical and scientific knowledge organised in order to support and implement regional environmental policies. Nevertheless, the institutional framework identifies public actors and the essential levels of environmental technical performance as key stakeholders. On the basis of the provisions contained in the draft law that we are going to approve, I am particularly in agreement with the reorganization of the structure, coordinated at central level and harmonised at regional level. Of course, the clause of financial invariance, inserted in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, reminds us that the current moment requires public administrations to be oriented to efficiency, effectiveness, but above all to the reduction of costs. Surely, the new method that will be created to manage and plan public action in environmental matters - which, I remind everyone, should be understood more and more as prevention and less and less as an emergency response - will have to be a concrete technical-scientific support, ensured by the Network of Agencies and ISPRA, which will carry out research, monitoring, controls and application studies for the knowledge of the environment and the territory. In this direction, the creation of a national network of accredited laboratories is required to apply the official methods of analysis approved by the national system in order to harmonise the systems of knowledge, monitoring and control of environmental matrixes. Another point of serious reflection is, then, that of an increasingly sustainable management of the territory and its resources. In fact, in order to face the challenge posed by climate change, with a view to sustainable development and environmentally friendly management of the territory, it is not only necessary to integrate national legislation with that of the Community, but also a widespread awareness of the respect for the territory, its characteristics and the prevention of risks it may incur. The driving force, in fact, that have given above all the Community regulations has profoundly modified the environmental law and reformed the public administration, recognizing, at the same time, the fundamental role of environmental policies in the economic development of the country. I also very much welcome the approach taken to the new national environmental protection system introduced by this measure: it will play an autonomous role, a scientific and technical role and no longer just the operational role of public administrations, to which supervision was linked. In fact, the operational supervisory role has also been strengthened with the acquisition of the status of judicial police officer by the staff, providing for adequate legal assistance and insurance cover to be provided to such staff by the institution of which they belong. This will entail greater responsibility in the management, while remaining under the supervision of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, as regards the ISPRA, and the Regions, as regards the ARPA instead. In conclusion, my personal opinion is certainly positive, confirming a further step forward, with this bill, after the introduction, last year, of Law 68 on environmental crimes, towards the understanding and resolution of the complex problems related to the environment. This is probably not enough. We are waiting to take further steps, such as the draft law on soil consumption or a new legislation on the use of sewage sludge in agriculture. The optimal management of the territory represents the challenge for future excellence: let's proceed on this road. [[Applause from Senator Laniece. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u71	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u72	Madam President, the draft law before this House has been unanimously adopted in the House of Deputies and bears witness to the importance of the issue and the need to achieve shared solutions. It is precisely for this reason that Commission 13a in the Senate did not want to make any changes to the text dismissed by the House, except for the introduction of a clause of financial invariance of which, in our opinion, there was no explicit need, but which, in accordance with the Regulations and also the law, we were forced to insert. The theme of the Environmental Agencies is rather dated because, in fact, it was born in the aftermath of the referendum of 18 April 1993, which saw 83% of Italians vote "yes" with regard to the hypothesis of nuclear control tasks on the environment by the structures of health organizations in order to enhance their specificity and, therefore, with the awareness of the importance, already at that time, of real control over the environment, with all the implications that derive and derived from that intuition. Indeed, it is precisely from that moment that a course of normative, organizational and operational nature has begun to conclude which has formed a system of Agencies, which includes 10,000 people, engaged throughout the national territory in the work of health and environmental prevention. Following the outcome of the referendum, Act No. 61 of 1994, which contained provisions on the reorganization of environmental controls, on the establishment of the National Agency, was enacted and also indicated that Regions and Autonomous Provinces should, through their own laws, have regional agencies. Regional laws have been enacted over a rather long period, lasting about ten years, until 2006 and for many Agencies and Regions, after the first founding law, there have already been significant regulatory updates. But it is necessary to recognize how each Region, in its autonomy, has worked and legislated in a different way, establishing its own environmental agency, in a way certainly not homogeneous throughout the national territory, so the national landscape turns out to be composite, with Agencies that have different tasks, different functions, different organizations and also different dimensions. This creates not only a theoretical unevenness on national territory, but also a certain dystonia which, in a certain way, creates difficulties for citizens and businesses. Suffice it to think of large enterprises, which work throughout the national territory that find themselves impacting, Region by Region, with regulations, procedures and process procedures completely different from each other. It is equally true, however, that operational problems, which are the focus of almost all agencies, and controls on emission sources and monitoring of the state of the environment, have, vice versa, homogeneous problematicities to which we must give uniform answers, whatever the territory where the citizens live. There are, therefore, some aspects of the complex work of reorganization and rationalization of the system that will have to be clarified, starting from the need to ensure a definition of an agency system that today can only be an organizational system able to give effective technical responses at minimized costs. The strongest expectations are on the change and stabilisation of the role and functions of environmental agencies, a role that must change because today the way of being of the public administration is changing. It must change because it must consolidate the important technical aspect of each Agency in support of health and environmental prevention; it must change because the sensitivity of citizens, in environmental matters and in the prevention of collective health, understood as the primary good to be protected, is always increasing and needs clear and transparent answers, as well as technically impeccable. The draft law therefore provides for the establishment of a national network system for the protection of the environment (the so-called national system), which includes the Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) and the Regional Agencies and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano for the protection of the environment. The National System contributes to the pursuit of the objectives of sustainable development, the reduction of soil consumption, the safeguarding and promotion of the quality of the environment, the protection of natural resources and the implementation of the polluter pays principle. Moreover, the rule is in absolute consistency with that amendment approved, right here in the Senate, in the parliamentary process of constitutional reform, which wanted to include the environment among the goods subject to constitutional protection as a primary interest for the country. The National System has a number of well-defined tasks, including monitoring the state of the environment and its evolution, monitoring the pollution factors of environmental matrixes and "pressures on the environment," research, transmission to the various institutional levels and dissemination of environmental information to the public, technical and scientific support for the exercise of administrative functions in environmental matters, participation in national and regional systems responsible for civil, health and environmental protection interventions, as well as collaboration with bodies carrying out surveillance and inspection tasks, monitoring the effects on the environment resulting from the implementation of infrastructure works, technical support functions for the development and application of ecological quality certification procedures for products and production systems. The measure also defines the functions of ISPRA's technical guidance and coordination, aimed at making the activities of the National System homogeneous from a technical point of view and transferring to ISPRA the functions of the collegial bodies already operating at the Ministry of the Environment, for which a reordering procedure had been initiated. Regional and provincial agencies are also given legal personality under public law and technical-scientific, administrative and accounting autonomy. Agencies shall carry out the compulsory institutional activities necessary to ensure the achievement of the essential levels of environmental technical performance in their respective territories of competence. I believe that this is a fundamental concept, because precisely these essential levels constitute the homogeneous minimum level that must apply throughout the national territory and that the National System is therefore required to ensure, even in order to achieve the objectives of collective prevention provided for by the essential levels of health care. ISPRA will have to plan the main lines of action to ensure that these essential levels are reached throughout the country and to ensure the approval of the programme, which is the reference document for defining the plans and activities of the individual Agencies. In order to standardise the methods of data analysis at national level, it was considered appropriate to establish a national network of accredited laboratories, required to apply the official methods of analysis approved by the National System, in order to harmonise the systems of knowledge, monitoring and control of environmental matrixes. The national system is - yes - required to use as a priority the national network of internal laboratories, but, knowing how much work is, it also has the possibility to address, to necessity, external laboratories, which must, however, meet those criteria of homogeneity which, as I said, apply throughout the national territory. In order to finance ISPRA's activity, a State contribution is expected to be added to the ordinary budget, which is periodically quantified in relation to the forecasts of the annual activity plan. All this allows ISPRA and the Agencies to hire staff and acquire capital goods for the purposes of the law and within the limits of the financial resources indicated. It is clear, therefore, that the way in which this draft law intends to go is to achieve uniform tasks to be carried out in transparency and in achieving a truly efficient level of monitoring and safeguarding the environment and the health of citizens, these aims, which only a uniform standardisation system is able to ensure. This is consistent with all the steps we have taken in this legislative term in the field of environmental protection (from the rules on hydrogeological failure, to the provisions aimed at safeguarding soil consumption, to the text on environmental crimes, to the environmental link) and the speed we have ensured in the Commission to examine the measure and, I hope, the similar speed in this House is proving our real understanding. Madam President, allow me to make one last remark. This law is certainly a good law. In my opinion, however, this measure will need to take a further step forward, trying to understand and understand the areas of research that no longer make sense that they are within the ISPRA or the National Agency System and must be integrated into a large system of public research, which can be guaranteed by universities and the CNR. The division between the agency system and the research system can certainly guarantee a better efficiency of the agency system. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u73	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u74	Madam President, as President Marinello and a number of previous Members have said, the draft law before us is part of the extensive reform process that is at the heart of the environment, after many years of absence of environmental policies. We have to say that, in continuity with Law No. 68, passed last year and of which we are evaluating the efficiency on the front of crimes against the environment, and Law No. 221, passed at the end of last year (the so-called environmental connection), a natural process of revision of the network of protection of inspection bodies and agencies referred to in Law No. 61 of 21 January 1994, which is largely affected by the time spent. In part, it has already been said what this bill contains. The establishment, in Article 1, of the National Ational Network System for the protection of the environment is the indispensable basic tool for achieving greater homogeneity and effectiveness in Italy of the exercise of both cognitive and public control of the quality of the environment, in support of the essential policies of sustainability. It is a fact that 21 Agencies have highlighted in recent years that differentiated roles and resources and absolutely not homogeneous have in fact prevented that the environmental quality could be established at the country system, with a convergence of operational strategies and modalities of exercise in the institutional tasks. Uncertainty has therefore been generated for companies and citizens, but also perplexity, uncertainty and incoherence for the same municipal institutional realities and economic operators. Article 9 establishes the LEPTAs. After providing standard services (and not just standard costs) in the Constitution and having gone to search for essential levels of assistance (LEA) and essential levels of social assistance (LIVEAS), today we introduce the small big revolution represented by the essential levels of environmental technical performance. These will require definitions of quality and regulatory standards, as well as of the same standard costs, but I would say that this is a step forward of extraordinary clarity and transparency; in short, the level of quality of air, soil and water to which Italian citizens are entitled is blacked out. We therefore hope that this will proceed in the safeguarding of biodiversity, in the correct monitoring for climate change, in the verification of hydrogeological failure. Even if only considering the authorisations, checks and mandatory controls, such as those provided for by the various integrated environmental authorisations, strategic environmental assessments (VAS) and environmental impact assessments (EIA), it really makes it possible to think that there is a homogeneous network, that moves in almost homogeneous way throughout the national territory, it really makes it possible to think of a very different future than in the past. Finally, I would like to highlight, last but not least, how the draft law under discussion brings serenity, clarity and mutual collaboration between the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, the ISPRA and the National System for the Protection of the Environment, as well as for the same ARPA. We have always argued that in order to successfully pursue the issue of environmental respect for sustainable development, we need a team game that brings together and exploits all the skills we have. I think that is, in a nutshell, what I was hearing about the draft law under consideration. I would add, to complete, what many people of majority and minority have considered to be the only element of opacity of this bill and that we hope to heal quickly: we cannot imagine photographing an uneven reality transforming it into homogeneous without, inevitably, providing for a legislative level that produces a leveling action and therefore of such quality that all the local agencies are placed on the same level, or an economic intervention by the State, so that the country actually departs and all the Regions in the same way can achieve the same environmental quality. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u75	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u76	Madam President, before we go into the substance of the measure we are debating, I would like to focus on a fact that has been fundamental to the agency system: I am referring to the 1993 repealing referendum, with which citizens have clearly expressed their willingness to take environmental protection competences away from the Health Service in order to ensure greater autonomy for the agencies. This is particularly relevant not only because from then on the system of environmental agencies was actually established, but mainly because it represents one of the very few cases in which people's will was followed up, an abnormal event for the governments that have followed in recent years. This is well known by the Renzi Government, which not only does not take into account the referendary will expressed in 2011 by 26 million Italians regarding the management of public water, but rather goes further. As you all well know, this government is clearly trampling on citizens' right and duty to vote: during the last referendum on the Renzi drills, it invited citizens not to go to vote, only to favor the oil lobby. In our view, this is unacceptable. But let's go back to the agencies. The bill we are discussing today is the result of a coordination work that has also been carried out thanks to the 5 Star Movement, considering that one of the draft laws is at the first signature of my colleague Massimo De Rosa, as well as already successful for the bill on environmental crimes. However, this joint work was only possible in the Chamber, given that here in the Senate we were not given the opportunity to intervene with specific proposals (all the amendments, in the Commission, received the opposite opinion) and it is to be noted that the measure has been parked in the Environment Commission since April 2014. There was a real obstruction on the part of the government, which evidently does not digest this text and tried to block it in every way. However, in the Commission there was no opposition between the various political groups, but only from the Government which, as it does now often, has strongly interfered in ordinary parliamentary activity. We decided, in fact, with the consent of all the parliamentary groups, in order only to facilitate the conclusion of the work, not to make any further changes to the text, but to limit ourselves to the presentation of agendas. But until the end we had to undergo yet another act of arrogance, with the last minute rapporteur's amendment, which cannot be amended, written at the request of the State Accounting Office, which happened, after a year has changed its mind, inserting a clause of economic invariance on the whole measure. The Bill on Agencies should be considered as the proper completion of the Eco-Ray Bill. In fact, what is the point of providing for sanctions for environmental crimes if we cannot rely on a coordinated control activity on the territory necessary for environmental protection? In this context, I cannot fail to denounce the fact that the planned environmental protection system cannot count on the valid technical support of the Forestry Corps. The system of environmental coordination, in fact, is not compatible with the absurd decision of the Government to suppress the Forest Corps of the State, the only police force always engaged in environmental matters, whose special and specialist role is now definitively compromised with the amalgamation in the Arm of the Carabinieri. In our intentions ARPA and ISPRA must become bodies that stand on the side of the citizen, acting to protect health, the environment and the territory, the true heritage of the State. That is also why we have proposed, with an agenda, that those exercising inspection duties should be granted the status of a judicial police officer, inter alia, by ending discrimination between the various regional agencies. Today, in fact, a leopard spot some ARPAs recognize this qualification to all those who carry out inspection functions. Specific action is therefore needed to avoid inequalities. I must point out that some points, which we consider particularly important, have not been accepted: we would have liked agencies more independent and autonomous, who would also carry out checks on political choices in the field of the environment, analyzing from a technical point of view the consequences on the territory of the choices made in these Palazzi. Unfortunately, we have not been able to achieve all the objectives because the majority has lacked support, but we have improved the text a lot. For example, we have introduced constraints whereby figures, like directors-general and presidents, must necessarily be important figures for technical and scientific competence and without conflict with other positions. In this context too, we have said no to the caste and to the choices imposed from above, focusing on merit and competences. In addition, we have included guidelines to ensure that the Agency system is geared to the highest international scientific and technical standards. In this way, the technicians required to monitor will do so with the most state-of-the-art and most effective systems that there are, with standards that, among other things, will be subject to a constant adaptation according to the possible environmental criticalities emerged. Another feature in the draft law is the creation of a database of accessible environmental data, so that environmental data are transparent and usable to anyone, especially simple citizens, who encounter many bureaucratic difficulties. Beyond the content, allow me, finally, to reflect on the way in which the discipline is implemented. The majority of the articles refer in fact to successive implementing decrees, problem evidenced not only by us but also by various audit subjects in the Commission, such as AssoArpa, that has found the fact that the measure, not being self-executing, can generate not few uncertainties and application delays. Given that we are used not only to delays but very often to administrative failures, we have tabled an amendment and also an agenda, with which we propose to insert a special penalty system linked to the performance cycle, so that the person responsible for adopting the administrative act can be more responsible, even with possible disciplinary sanctions. Another particularly sensitive issue is the funding of the Agencies. It is clear that if adequate resources are not foreseen, each source of income can undermine the independence of the Agency system. For this reason, we proposed that a guarantee of impartial financing be provided, allocating, as a minimum annual amount of ordinary funding, at least 1% of the resources for current health expenditure. Needless to say, you didn't listen to us. The 5 Star Movement has also proposed the creation of a special environmental fund, within the framework of the Single Justice Fund, financed from the proceeds obtained from the criminal or administrative seizure of movable or immovable property or from the confiscation, fines, civil and criminal sanctions of an environmental nature, aimed at preventing and combating harmful conduct of the environment, the reclamation and recovery of polluted sites. As I have already mentioned, on the last day of the examination of the measure in the Environment Commission, the amendment suggested by the Accounting Office on economic invariance has arrived. The planned resources were already reduced, if there is no additional burden, how will these Agencies carry out their duties? It means that it becomes a measure of facade and that, in practice, there is no possibility of concrete work. We do not understand, moreover, why the Accounting Office makes a different assessment from that made to the Chamber and why it took a year to do it. The truth is that this is just another attempt to bogged down the provision. In fact, now, with this new modifying intervention, the text will have to go back to the examination of the House, I hope not to be covered up again. In conclusion, it has now been two years since this measure was incardinated into the Environment Commission in the Senate, and it has been held firm waiting for the government to decide when and how to bring it to the Chamber. Yet, this bill had been favored by the majority of political groups. Of course, it could be further improved, but at least it could have been voted for a long time, if we had not been forced to submit to the whims of a Government that always goes sideways, forgetting that the legislative power is still in the hands of the Chambers and that the Government should simply be an "executive" body. But by now we are well aware of the dictatorial state in which we have fallen and of which we will certainly get rid soon. In the meantime, we hope that this measure will be able to pass, at least as it is. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u77	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u78	Madam President, I repeat the opinion of my Group, which is basically positive, as expressed in the House. However, I cannot fail to express some concerns. Starting from the tail, the first concern is of a financial nature, linked to the clause of invariance of expenditure rather than to a research, much more correctly, than that would have been a financial cover, because, from what world it is world, the Ministries do not restructure and no new agencies and new collegial bodies are introduced without providing at all to spend some money. So, once again, you'll entrench yourself behind a financial invariance clause that's just a formal indication. From this point of view, in agreement with the President of the Budget Commission and the other groups, we will soon start an assigned business, as is said in parliamentary jargon, to check whether all these clauses through which the laws pass, because they are exempted from the censorship of Article 81, do not actually result in an increase in public expenditure. In fact, the feeling that we have is that these clauses, such as those which we often read in the opinions of the Budget Committee (in the assumption that the same sums can be used to carry out the new tasks) have a purely formal meaning. But, in my opinion, they are also alarming, because if it is true that new things can be done with the same appropriations, then that means that there is waste in the Ministries. The assumption that this does not mean an increase in expenditure means that the things that were done before were done with exorbitant sums compared to the needs, since there are, in the budget chapters, spaces to be able to carry out new tasks. This concern is of a specific nature with regard to this rule, but it is also of a general nature, with regard to the many rules that we are passing on and which should not lead to increases in expenditure, but which I believe will actually lead to increases, even sensitive ones, in expenditure. We will be aware of this when examining the accounts, although, unfortunately, very often the accounts are the fastest and most uncritical thing in this Parliament, compared to so many other measures, whereas they should really be analysed by Parliament. Having said that and coming to the substance of the measure, let us say that this is an attempt to reorder environmental control skills, which, however, knows a lot about standardisation. In recent times, we have seen a certain difficulty, from the point of view of the state bodies responsible for environmental control, to tell the truth; they try instead to climb on mirrors, to endorse some governmental choices. The last emblematic case, which has already been mentioned, has been that of some environmental impact assessments made in very vague terms in relation to the case of drilling and, above all, of research and exploration activities at sea. There had always been, over time, an absolutely critical opinion from the ISPRA and from other environmental control bodies, but in the end, to "please" the government address, these opinions have been rendered in a much more political than not technical way (I limit myself to this small observation). So this measure, which wants to put order and which re-introduces a kind of central direction on what was considered an excessive fragmentation, sometimes even contradictory, between one regional body and the other, I hope and I would like it not to be an attempt to normalize, also from the environmental point of view, a control activity and an activity of intervention that must be absolutely and ferrely efficient and above all organized on criteria of scientific truth and not on criteria of political necessity. This is what we fear from the point of view of the relationship, which becomes increasingly dependent, between political authorities and technical bodies. This worries us, because in our country there are huge variety of situations from the environmental point of view. Here we tend not so much and not only to rationalize, which could also be justifiable, but we also tend to homogenize, on a national scale, some evaluations that should find not so much in the regional dimension, from the administrative or geographical point of view, but in the local dimension the evaluation of some characteristics that are absolutely different between one point and the other of our country. We called for the work of the ISPRA and the Agency to be supported not only by national and regional levels, but also by municipal levels. I believe that the amendment will not be adopted, because the aim is to launch the text in the wording received from the House of Deputies and therefore to finalise its reading, except for Article 17, which will then go to the House - I imagine - for speedy ratification. We asked for this because we believe that, with the times that run, especially with the needs of local finance, a national agency can actually support the municipalities in their needs. Recently we saw an incredible story: the Ministry of Economy asked the Municipalities of Augusta and Priolo to pay the Community infringement of 400,000 euros a year for the maintenance of areas of polluted sites. It is absolutely indescribable what is happening in the relations between the local authorities the Government: a municipality, which should already ask for billions of environmental damage for the restoration of extraordinarily beautiful areas and the extraordinary potential of economic development in the good sense of the term, in the tourism and agriculture sectors, is forced - or "invited" - to pay the Community infringement due to pollution, for absolutely disastrous choices from the environmental point of view - but I say, also from the social, industrial and economic point of view - made by that Municipality certainly not. It was certainly not the municipalities of Augusta and Priolo, in fact, who asked for the installation of refineries and polluting industrial structures on their territory. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has asked these municipalities to pay 400,000 euros a year of Community infringement because they maintain polluted areas and I ask colleagues who do not believe us to control what I say and perhaps the Ministries themselves, who do not talk to each other, do not know that these things happen. But if I am not mistaken, there is a law of the state which provides that polluted areas must be depolluted by those who polluted them: once again the government is silent, when it must impose on certain subjects to restore the environment by spending the sums that it is right to spend to restore this environment. I shall end by thanking you, Mr President, for the kindness and time you have given me, expressing the hope - and we will be watching over this - not only that from the economic point of view this law does not have a negative impact, but also that, from the point of view of efficiency, it does not mark a transition to the normalization of the government guidelines of technical bodies, which should not be absolutely unaffected by government guidelines and above all should defend the extraordinary heritage of landscape and environment of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u79	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caleo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Undersecretary, the measure that we are preparing to vote on today is born from a very distant distance. It is a reform on which we have been discussing for at least eight years and which, two years after its approval to the House, for a technical modification that we have not managed to avoid to insert, we are sending back to the House for its third and, I hope, last reading. As a Democratic Party and as a Government we have put in place, during this legislature, a package of norms for a real environmental reform that in guaranteeing greater protection for the environment favors the real development of the green economy in our country. Because environmental protection is not only a moral imperative, but above all it is an opportunity to finally promote healthy entrepreneurship, the one that suffers from the competition of those who work in the grey area, using environmental wrongdoing to save. The approval of this bill, which rearranges the system of environmental agencies, is therefore fundamental in order to give full implementation to the measures contained in the law on environmental and related environment, restoring independence and professionalism to the technicians specialized in environmental protection, as well as helping to rebalance the differences between the various regions and to recover the situations of greater delay. We must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that citizens' questions and concerns about environmental protection and health risks have long been calling for an answer from the institutions, which is credible and up-to-date. Since the beginning of this parliamentary term, a number of urgent measures have been put in place to limit environmental and health damage: we now need to change paradigms, provide new answers, for example by giving the technical bodies responsible for monitoring the authority necessary to make citizens feel protected in the supreme good which is their own health. The construction of a system of environmental protection agencies, which guarantees knowledge, transparency and professionalism, therefore becomes a top priority. Their constitution, with Law No 61 of 1994, marked an important milestone, but now it is necessary to go further. We certainly don't start from scratch. Already today, the Agencies and ISPRA have more than two hundred offices at the service of the country, 600,000 samples analysed each year, almost 100,000 operations between inspections and inspections, more than 73,000 instructors and opinions, more than 11,000 operators involved. These are important numbers, but they do not guarantee uniform application throughout the national territory of the necessary controls. The Southern Agencies are certainly the most in difficulty, although often environmental emergencies concern precisely those Regions. Let us think of the Ilva, the land of fires, the Isochemistry in Campania, in Bussi in Abruzzo: these are all cases that we are often called upon to deal with in this House. This measure finally gives the country an effective and efficient organization of the control system. It is not only a question of verifying compliance with the rules, of absolute importance, but also of articulating and regulating the complex monitoring and data collection activity, which serves to improve the level of knowledge of the many environmental factors. In this way the political decision-maker - that is, us - can have certain, scientifically validated data produced by autonomous technical bodies, which will enable him to decide consciously for the good of our communities. You see colleagues, every time in our country we try to talk about the need to build any kind of plant or infrastructure, there are serious phenomena of social conflict, often due to the lack of confidence of the citizens towards political and administrative institutions, but also to those technical ones, increasingly accused of being enslaved to the decisions of politics, if not - worse - to those of the evil. The measure that we are going to vote on, therefore, contains measures that, in providing more autonomy to the Agencies and the ISPRA, clearly define the relationship between controller and controlled, demand more professionalism from those organizations who, while remaining instrumental technical structures, will formulate opinions, which will be binding on the competent authorities. A real network system is being built, coordinated by ISPRA. However, the full autonomy of the regional levels remains and synergies are achieved between the agencies, networking numerous provincial laboratories. In this way, uniform levels of environmental technical performance are determined throughout the national territory, from Aosta to Trapani. To foresee, moreover, that there is an authorization procedure, which is unique for the same type of plant, means not only to do good to the environment, but also to avoid some sort of industrial dumping, for which there are places, with equal legislation, where some polluting activities can be authorized and others in which this is not allowed. I shall conclude, Madam President. We will finally have a system whose data is considered official. The regional agencies, where there are already high-level excellences, will have more autonomy in this scheme, and ISPRA, in this design, also assumes a more important role: not only of technical support to the ministries, but of a national system. My solidarity goes to ISPRA and its workers. I think it is important at this time to fund research and monitoring more and in future to finance less environmental reclamation, which many times is also done by those who have done pollution. Surely some nodes remain unresolved, we know it; every measure is improved, but I am also convinced that today more than ever our country has the urgency to equip itself with a system for stronger environmental protection, and this measure tries to do so by putting in place a modern and innovative organization able to face the complex challenges that the current times impose on us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u81	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u82	Postponement of the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title to other session
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I warn you that Senator Buccarella has asked for a statement of urgency on draft law No 1959, which extends the cases of the application of covert operations for the prosecution of certain new crimes. Pursuant to Rule 77, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the discussion on this request will be placed on the agenda of the afternoon sitting of tomorrow, Wednesday 18 May. The vote will be taken by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u86	MOLINARI (Mixed). Madam President, last Friday, in Livorno, before the City Council, which dealt with the notice of guarantee to Mayor Nogarin and the city council member of the budget for the alleged crime of fraudulent bankruptcy in the context of the investigation on the municipalized, the opposition adviser Marco Valiani was attacked in front of the municipal palace. It seems - and has been denounced in this sense - that the author of the attack is the husband of a municipal councilwoman of the 5 Star Movement. This is a serious matter, both because it demonstrates the inability of a political force to maintain political confrontation on the tracks of democracy, and because I have not read of any condemnation of the act by their local or national representatives. I therefore call to the attention of the highest institutional authorities the situation of Livorno, which has given so much to the history of this country, and the punishment to which its citizens are condemned that will have the chance, as soon as it will be given the opportunity to vote - if that mayor and that Junta will allow it - to sanction them with the free vote. As far as we are concerned, and above all as far as I am concerned, it is not possible to minimize those facts - I repeat, especially because I have not heard any voice of condemnation raised - which constitute much more than a wake-up call than what is lodged in the bowels of the 5 Star Movement. It has already happened in dark times, which preceded the advent of our Constitution, that it has been tolerated for cynical calculation of the violence of squadrism, and we have seen where fascism has led us. As then, allowing this state of affairs by pretending nothing - and for my original belonging I feel more responsibility for it - makes us complicit and we cannot and must not be silent. I reiterate my total solidarity with Marco and those citizens who are opposed to him in that Commune.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u89	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government (who have left; it doesn't matter!) I make an intervention on an interview recently given by the national anti-Mafia prosecutor, Franco Roberti, realized by the "Reuters" and re-launched recently by the Italian newspapers. These are Roberti's very interesting statements: legalizing the sale of cannabis would allow a hard blow to the fighters of the Islamic State as well as to Italian organized crime. The main road covered by cannabis matches passes through Casablanca, Morocco, to Algeria, Tunisia and then to Tobruk, in eastern Libya. On this route Sirte is located, a city that represents an outlet on the Mediterranean in the hands of the militiamen of ISIS. The latter certainly control the Libyan way. He then added Franco Roberti, National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor, that the investigations brought to light evidence of links established between Islamic fighters and Italian drug traffickers. A partnership, the one between the Mafia and the Islamic State, which allows the latter to exploit a share of the immense and thriving drug trafficking of organized crime, which is worth - according to estimates of the United Nations Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention - over 32 billion euros per year (almost two citizenship incomes). Franco Roberti you know him and I think you value him. There are a number of proposals in Parliament, one by the intergroup, which was relaunched by the Undersecretary Della Vedova, which sees the signature of more than 300 Members. Unfortunately, we have lost a few opportunities, offered by various measures, to decriminalize cannabis in this legislature and we have seen the drug law (with Senator Giovanardi rapporteur) again, after it had been declared unconstitutional. At this point I say: either this Government and this majority basically do not want to understand, they are foolish and ignorant, or they are collusion with the Mafia. If this is a way, a weapon for the fight against the mob, but above all terrorism (not to mention all the excellent jobs of this plant in the industrial, medical, health and anything else), not legalizing it means that there are probably interests of this Government and this majority that go against the country and in favour of the mob, and of course also of ISIS. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u92	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, it is unacceptable that sexual orientation should lead to discrimination, discrimination or aggression, just as it is unheard that this leads to discrimination at work and in social and economic activities. These are some of the fine words that this morning the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella wanted to put in writing on the occasion of the anniversary of the International Day against Homophobia that is celebrated on 17 May, in particular in Europe, as an official anniversary established in 2004 by the European institutions. And it was very useful and beautiful that today, not for the first time, the Ministry of Education wanted to send to all Italian schools a circular inviting schools to put in place concrete actions to combat all discrimination and, among them, homophobic discrimination. This of course does not mean that in our country homophobia is in decline; indeed, just at a time, as has happened in other countries under the same circumstances, in which the rights of homosexual people finally become part of the legislative body of the country, they enter the public debate in the foreground, here is that also the episodes and homophobic revivals increase. On the other hand, today Arcigay, like every year, has given us a full report of the acts of homophobia that occurred in the last twelve months, which lists 104: they are only those that emerged and visible, only those reported in the newspapers of our country. Among these, two murders, two suicides, plus many cases of homophobia of a very different type. I just want to quote a few because you don't think that these things don't exist. I would like to start with a fact that happened on 17 May last year. On the Day Against Homophobia, in front of a group that manifested for the contrast to homophobia, an ice-cream maker exposed a large sign in which there was written parents, keep your children away from gay people: a symbolic gesture on that day. But there are many things much more serious, such as the case of that Dutch tourist of forty-one years attacked with insults and beatings on the promenade of Catania; like the case of that child of a few years who in his school has been repeatedly insulted until the mother has publicly denounced the fact; until the case of the man killed in his own home and the many - as I said more than a hundred - cases happened last year. That is why Parliament must do its part. Today, as a Group of the Democratic Party, we called on the Senate Justice Commission to resume the process of the law against homophobia, improperly arrested, and to examine the proposal for a law on the establishment, including by the Italian Parliament, of the National Day against Homophobia. Today we have deposited, together with many other senators, a bill against so-called healing therapies, those odious interventions of pseudo-healing of homosexual boys and girls by their identity, sexuality and personality. I hope that, not only through the formal acts I have mentioned, but also through legislative acts, this Parliament will give a concrete sign for the suppression of that very high level of homophobia still present in our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u95	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking briefly to express my full solidarity and closeness to Alessandro Marcelli, activist of the 5 Star Movement in Tagliacozzo, victim, while working in his laundry, of an ignoble act of aggression carried out by three hooded men, who hid their faces. I express the solidarity of the entire Group for Marcelli, who has obviously denounced and the investigations are under way. Among the hypotheses that are made by the investigators is that the aggression, among other things, occurred on the day when his shop should have held the meeting of the local meetup, is due to his political commitment with the 5 Star Movement and that it is an aggression that may relate to the list that will be presented at the next local elections in the Abruzzo town of Tagliacozzo. My closeness is obviously not linked only to the fact that Alessandro Marcelli is our activist, but it is clear that it would be very serious if the political lead were confirmed. We know that we can often be uncomfortable for someone, but it is absolutely unacceptable for physical or psychological violence to be used to intimidate. The incident sadly adds to a long series of these actions often suffered by people of the Movement, such as the house of the mayor of Pietraperzia and the car of the candidate mayor burned down in Carini. Trusting in the judicial investigations in order to be able to trace as soon as possible to the culprits, we all of the 5 Star Movement manifest solidarity. We will not give up and give every support to this list, as to all those who are working to enter the many municipalities of Italy and to give citizens the opportunity to look with confidence to the future because the solutions to the problems will find them together and there will be no room for those who do not have adequate arguments and uses violence and attitudes of bullying and prevarication just to intimidate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u96	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-627.ana.u97	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 18 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.04 p.m.
