ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you know that my appreciation for you is always the greatest, because it is the example of wisdom, of wisdom and - let me quote in a positive sense the word I am going to use - of "furbishment," in this political case. I therefore call for the vote on the Minutes, after checking the quorum, always with great esteem and appreciation for your role and for your staff. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u5	There are certain delays in coming to this House that we must oppose the same slowness, and that is the problem. In fact, there are your colleagues who are not on time at the beginning of the work and we still see people standing in line for the card. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). The request is supported, despite the number of people who still have to withdraw the card. You don't understand why the card, which is personal, has to be filed, someone has to explain it to me. [[Comments by Senator Esposito Stefano.]] I was only one day among you, so I didn't have the opportunity and the time to understand certain mechanisms. Should I make provision that the cards are no longer deposited, so that we avoid this delay in their recovery? Do we have to make a police state? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Some people still have to withdraw the card to vote. [[Senator Martelli's comments.]] Please tell me when the cards have all been distributed? [[Ironic applause from Senator Candiani. Senator Council's comments.]] Please speed up; once you have the card in your hand you may also hurry to your stations. Please let the other colleagues pass. The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation starts (15:39 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposals to amend the timetable. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting, the Assembly was informed of the timetable adopted by a majority by the Conference of the Leaders, on which proposals for amendments were made. Let us continue with the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u11	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise in an explanation of vote to say that our Group will vote in favour of the timetable for the original work, on which we have been discussing these days, and of course of all the changes that tend to restore that scheme, for the reason that it has been announced by several colleagues from the opposition and that I feel I can support it. It would have been more appropriate - especially in view of the fact that we do not have a particular urgency to consider in a few days the final vote on constitutional reforms, since for final approval we will have to wait for the months scheduled for the vote of the House of Members - much more serious and I believe much more appropriate to the work of this House, to ensure that this debate takes place free from any even simple suspicion of conditioning. It was necessary to avoid going overboard, by first entering the discussion of other measures (and therefore having to understand what will happen to them) and a discussion such as that on the composition of the standing committees, which we have been carrying for several months and which obviously should not enter anything with other issues. I hope that this House will still have time to correct this situation. I have to say that I do not believe it because unfortunately - and even from these small things you can see - this is just the extreme confirmation of what some of us have been supporting for many months and even for a few years now. I remember supporting this argument with my own and other groups in this House in July a few years ago when the text on constitutional reforms first arrived. A constitutional reform that starts not on the initiative of Parliament and devoid of the constituent spirit (which would have served above all at such a delicate stage in the democracy of this country, especially at a time when half a country does not go to vote and when the element of disillusionment with politics is very high) would have deserved from the majority an entirely different approach. A delicate phase like this would have deserved precisely that famous constituent spirit; not the forcings that are done by majority shots but instead a serious political debate, capable of going through not only Parliament but also the country. The real country will also be called to the referendum, as we are listening to in these days from the statements of the President of the Council, and not to express a judgment of merit, precisely on the merit of the reform; it will basically be called to give a sort of vote of collective trust, demeaning in the foundations the idea of how the Constitution is reformed, or rather how these Chambers should have reformed the Constitution. Even a passage like this, once again ragazzonato, concluded in times absolutely not useful to the cause, instrumental compared to many elements, is just yet another demonstration that this spirit did not want to seek and did not want to build. Fortunately, some thinkers who think with their heads in our country have remained, and as some authoritative constitutionalist says, we are in a paradoxical condition in which what should be par excellence the typical parliamentary act is instead interpreted as a move of the majority of government. A short circuit is created for which an element and mechanism are put in place that has nothing to do with the reform of the Constitution. Well, even a fact like this, that of wanting to anticipate in this way the voting times of the last passage that the Senate will make on constitutional reform without wanting to wait for the proper times that we had given ourselves a few weeks ago, seems to us the proof of the nine of the fact that unfortunately this story is marked from the beginning by this fundamental element. I keep thinking the same thing, I haven't changed my mind for a year and a half: this mechanism that we wanted to build around constitutional reform is not good for the politics and the more general political situation that exists in this country. I will never cease to say this, I will go as far as I am in this House and as long as this House is one of the two Chambers that make up the national Parliament: I believe that, especially when there is a stronger break between the real country and public opinion, on the one hand, and politics and institutions, on the other, in the face of dramatic and resounding events that probably never as today pass through the public life of our country so deeply, the elected by the people, that is, we, should really take full responsibility for this element of difficulty. Mostly, in this case, because amendments cannot be tabled, obstructive battles cannot be made, voting will not be possible except the final one on the final text, it was simply a matter of having a sufficient time to discuss and at least to make the Italians understand what we are talking about. I do not want to hold a constitutional referendum in which, instead of talking about the merit of the reform, we will talk about Renzi and his government. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]] I think this is a very serious political mistake and I think it is very serious that the President-in-Office of the Council wants to set the electoral campaign against the referendum. Especially in a country like this, in which still today is very strong, despite everything, the memory of the extraordinary work of our constituent Fathers, to which we have been inspired for many years, I really think that, was nothing more than respect for that story, at least on this point we could have been a little more serious, a little less propagandistic, a little more sober. Instead, as always, demagogy prevails in our country. I have told you many times, colleagues in the PD: demagogy from below is not answered with demagogy from above. Perhaps in the short term this may be useful, but I assure you, and you will see, that in the long run it will be a disaster that you have done not just to Parliament but to our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u14	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id)). Mr President, as I have already explained in my previous speech, I believe that the opportunity to anticipate the vote on the reorganization of the Commissions should be supported precisely as a contribution of transparency and common sense in order to have, instead, a debate on the constitutional matter out of shadow. It is precisely in this sense that I would like to make a double appeal, also because what has happened in recent hours presents us with an institutional dynamic of the work that is done on the reform of the Constitution that seems more the daughter of overbearing fathers than of constituent Fathers. [[Applause from Senator De Pin]] That is why I repeat the words I have already used at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I appeal to the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs because instead of naming herself as rapporteur, helping to make that Presidency lose its sense of tertitude, I instead appoint my colleague Luigi Zanda, President of the Group of the Democratic Party, who I believe has a preparation, a competence and a political passion that can better justify the fact that we are about to launch the Constitution of the Democratic Party and not that of the Italian Republic. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]] I would like to add to this remark a further appeal to you, Mr President: we do not allow the loss of speech to the Senators of the Republic and instead allow a discussion to take place on the content of the Constitution so that the Constitution is shown today to all citizens as in need of their contribution to safeguarding democracy and freedom in our country. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id) and Senators Campanella and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u17	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business to update you and the House on what is happening, trying to reconstruct the facts that are regularly confused or distorted here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are in the process of an explanation of vote, Senator Calderoli. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). There are no explanations of vote on the timetable, Mr President. It's an organized discussion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So they were represented in the speeches that have been carried out so far. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). However, Mr President, I wanted to update you with regard to the state of the work, partly because you were involuntarily involved in this reconstruction. The first point: yesterday the first Commission held a Bureau where we were told that the next day - that is today at 9 a.m. - a Conference of the Leaders would be convened and that the debate on constitutional reform would be scheduled in this House for next week. Today the Conference of the Leaders was held and you informed us correctly that the Conference of the Leaders was convened at the request of President Romani, to whom you gave the floor and that you called for the timetable for next week of the motion of no confidence on the part of the Renzi Government in order to be able to remove it from the debate of the Chamber of Deputies, which had already tabled a motion of individual distrust. Mr Zanda used precise words, which, claiming that constitutional reform was being discussed in the Commission, proposed that it should be scheduled in the House next week. There is a problem here, Mr President. The debate on the measure in the Commission had not even begun; neither was the report, which should have taken place this afternoon. This afternoon, during the debate on the order of business, I made a request to President Finocchiaro, on the basis of Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure, to which I also refer to you, Mr President. According to this article, "The programme of proceedings is prepared every two months by the President of the Senate, making appropriate contacts with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, with the Presidents of the Commissions (...)" I have made it clear to President Finocchiaro today - and I repeat this now in this House - that a request from the President, on behalf of the Commission, for a few more days, would be sufficient to be able to go to the House with the rapporteur, in which case no one would have put in place any obstructive attitude. I believe, since until 13 April the House will not be able to vote for the fourth vote, that voting next week or the next week, without forcing us to sit at night or anything like that, is a good and healthy thing, since we can no longer table amendments, agendas or questions for a preliminary ruling. On the other hand - and I hope they are a number - the senators could all intervene in the Commission and in this House. So starting with a time quota in the Commission and in this House is unacceptable, Mr President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I would like President Finocchiaro to stand up to urge these few more days, which would allow us to conclude our work. Someone in the Commission has come to say that it is either so or otherwise that our attitude will be such that, if a rapporteur goes to this House, at this point President Zanda, or his temporary replacement in the Commission, Senator Astorre, will be appointed as rapporteur. But certainly not the President of the Commission, because the President of the Commission must guarantee us both in terms of majority and opposition, especially if she intends to stand down as rapporteur for the measure. I therefore renew my willingness to work together to identify times which do not include quotas in the Commission and in this House on this measure. Otherwise, it means that we will go to the House without the rapporteur; at least I will do everything possible to do so. One thing is certain, Mr President: we were to vote on a timetable today on the basis of a Commission report on the measure. The report has not been carried out and it is not even on schedule at this time (we will be back to meet tomorrow). But if the report is not carried out, then the Bureau of the 1st Commission, this morning's Conference of Group Leaders and the vote we are holding now have false presuppositions. There was no relationship. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Therefore, if anyone wants to reconvene the Conference of Leaders, do so; or decide in this House, but do so freely. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u20	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I must say that I reject the reconstruction of Senator Calderoli. I don't know where the request to convene a conference of group leaders came from this morning. I know I was summoned for the group leaders' meeting and I went there. The Conference of Leaders is, of course, free to discuss the issues that are being presented. I do not see what the obstacle to the presentation of a programme at the Conference of Leaders on the progress of the work of this House is, in fact, the task of this body, on the basis of the indications of the Leaders. It is in fact a meeting of the Leaders, at which each Parent Group, more than the Vice President of the Senate (which participates in the meetings, but is not a Parent Company), has the right and the duty to give an indication of what it considers to be the most useful calendar of the Assembly for our work. So it was this morning. I asked for the timetable for reform because, unless the Commission too is implementing a obstructive technique - which we had this morning, too, ample demonstration, because all morning it was committed by the obstruction of oppositions - the passage to the Commission, in the second constitutional reading, does not include discussion of amendments. As in the Commission, it is essentially a vote in this House, even before the debate. The majority shall have the right to request the calendarisation of a measure as soon as the constitutionally agreed deadline has elapsed. The Conference of Leaders voted and we can vote in this House. Would you be kind enough to vote on the calendar that the Leader has proposed? [[Applause from the PD Group]] ). Or do you think that we have to spend a few more days here, in which every senator of the opposition stands up, asks for the word, finds a subject of fantasy, proposes any calendar and the thing perpetuates throughout the sitting? [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). It's called democracy, Zanda! SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame! [[Comments of Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u21	Senator Airola! AIROLA (M5S). Mr. President, I'm leaving. ZANDA (PD). Mr President, that is all. There is an opposition that does not want to reform and is wasting time.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u22	[[Comments of Senator Malan]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You don't respect opposition! ZANDA (PD). It is in its legitimate right; but it is equally - even more so - the legitimate right of the majority to ask for the measure to come to the House, as the group leader has established by majority, to be discussed and voted on. That is the rule of democracy, Mr Calderoli. [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi]] In democracy the majority has a role to play and must play it. It is not only its right, it is its duty and we will carry it out. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u25	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking under the Rules of Procedure. President Zanda's speech just now is clearly an intervention on the order of business, linking to the reconstruction of the news reported by President Calderoli, and thus supports the principle that we can all intervene on the timetable. But I come to the content of what I would like to challenge President Zanda. Today it was said in the Assembly... PRESIDENT. Excuse me, we are introducing a debate on another subject. Senator Crimi spoke for his group earlier and we said one for the Group. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Yes, Mr President, but everything that has been said so far lapses because it is based on the assumption that it was not acceptable under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and was not even logically predictable, nor was it supported today by the facts. Today would have been the first useful day, theoretically, in order to be able to start the last step of reform of the Constitution of which today the Assembly finds itself to be invested; therefore it was not possible to say "advanced state of the work"; if anything advanced state of decomposition of the rules here. [[Applause from Senator Morra]] It was then not possible to make that statement and that proposal. We should today reconvene a new group leader to take note of the situation that has arisen, namely that we will not have a rapporteur, and to decide whether we want to give this example of filthyness to the people who see us again. That's what we have to do. Returning to the question of times and haste, today we are truly ashamed of our leader. I am referring to the situation, which is now clear to all of us, which is why we want to proceed with forced steps on a simple, but not urgent, step because it cannot be done before a few months. Well - I say this to you, Mr President, but I also address the citizens - precisely because it is easy, simple and quick and since there are no amendments, to schedule this transition today with quotas and deadlines - as if it were a mozzarella - it simply means that we want to co-opt to vote in favour of those who would not, in conscience, express it. This is a violation of the absence of the mandate, or - worse still - of a sale and an exchange vote based on the allocation of posts to be assigned in the Commissions. It's a shame that's been hanging on us since last fall. Mr President, we denounced this situation with a statement presented on 13 September 2015. Nevertheless, coherent actions have not yet been taken, if not continued referrals (I think of the image of the carrot hanging in front of the donkey's head, which moves as the animal proceeds). This is the situation: it is a shame. Mr President, I am not only concerned about the ridicule, but also about the delegitimisation of a legislative process which should be beyond any doubt. Today we know that the vote, which could take place shortly, is based on misleading, erroneous, impossible, irregular and, moreover, inconsistent arguments on the factual level. Nor has there been a report in the Commission; there is no progress in the work. We must allow the work to be carried out. Parliament has the time to do this, and perhaps not the government, which is in a hurry and fear. However, we cannot bend to this, and you, Mr President, must also be a guarantor today. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u27	Senator Romani, do you intend to intervene as a Parent Company? I remember, in fact, that Senator D'Alì has already spoken for his Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u28	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to respond to what I have been told by President Zanda in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I understand that the reconstruction done by President Calderoli, whom I heard from my office, was absolutely correct. The meeting of the Conference of Leaders this morning was in fact requested by me for the inclusion of the discussion of the motion of no confidence in the Government because of the haste we all had, because at the same time it had already been scheduled in the Chamber of Deputies. The reason for the call for the Conference of Group Leaders this morning was precisely this and you are kindly in response to the request of the Forza Italia Group. If we want to take advantage of the meeting of the Conference of Leaders in order to change the timetable with regard to other aspects, this is not a polemical vein in relation to the subject as such: that is what happened this morning, neither more nor less. I think that President Calderoli has basically reconstructed the history of the meeting of the Conference of Leaders, both in its genesis and for the deliberations that subsequently took place in relation to the changes to the timetable requested by the majority. So, as far as we are concerned, we have been satisfied with the timetable, but it is very serious for us that we wanted to take advantage of this meeting of the Conference of Leaders in order to anticipate in an absolutely improper and intolerable way the inclusion in the calendar of the Assembly of the debate on constitutional reforms.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u29	Senator Romani, thank you for the clarification you have made. The House will now speak on the matter, because at the time when Senator Calderoli proposed to vote on the inclusion in the timetable with the formula 'where concluded by the Commission', the Assembly will decide on the work of the Commission and, therefore, on the preliminary ruling that the work should be completed in the Commission before the discussion in the Assembly begins. It will then be the House, with its vote, that will decide on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u32	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I can think of En attendant Godot: the state of mind that I believe is raging especially in many of the majority. This is a very old and very sad story - I would say - because it started badly and is continuing worse, but always on the same line. I find a deep sense of shame especially for some important facts because I find it specious that two former magistrates, the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the President of the Senate, allow this continuous filth with respect to the use of parliamentary rules. This is the reason for the greatest discomfort in this House, which is continually delegitimized in relation to its legislative functions. I'm telling you this because you're the landlord here and the second office of the state. You, Mr President, continue to allow these government raids into the parliamentary debate by foreclosure of all those who are and who should be the prerogatives of the opposition. There is nothing to object to with respect to the observations made by Senator Zanda: he respects the rules of the majority, but we would also like the rules of opposition to be respected, and you here are the guarantor of those rules. We would like to be able to do our part, otherwise I have to believe that Mr Mauro is right when he says that this is the Constitution of the Democratic Party. I do, then, a preventive action, and I say it above all to the friends of the oppositions to avoid then there are those subtle distinctions so, if someone does one thing, the other cannot do it and things like that. We in this House must not be voting on this constitutional reform, because it is not the reform of the country. This is a constitutional filth that has moved with the same rules that you want to get approved with this reform. There is a simple way of avoiding what are the right objections that are being made in this House, and you can help us from this point of view. Here is a people of blackmail who cannot freely express their parliamentary mandate. The only way to prevent this from happening is for appointments to be made before the vote on constitutional reform. This is the only way to restore dignity to a branch of Parliament. [[Applause from the CoR, LN-Aut and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u33	The vote will be taken by the House. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to include the examination of the draft Constitutional Reform Act, only when concluded by the Commission, with a debate in the Assembly without time limitation. [[Senator Calderoli points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Calderoli, is this your proposal?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u34	Just to self-penalize myself, President: you usually start from the most distant proposals to get to the nearest ones, and mine is just the nearest one, so it will be the last one to be voted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u35	It is the most important one, the one that has been most followed in the course of the debate. It seems to me that this is a reference to everything else, precisely because of the importance of the amendment proposal. I therefore put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to include the examination of the draft Constitutional Reform Act, only when concluded by the Commission, with a debate in the Assembly without limitation of time. It's not approved. Since some senators have raised their hands several times, I have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to bring forward the renewal of the standing committees from Thursday 21 January. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. So the decision will be taken through the button rather than by raise of hand. I don't think that's very correct, but let's check it out. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u38	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, since we all hold on to the Rules of Procedure and it is not just an aesthetic issue, I would like to point out to the House that, at this time, you are presiding, assisted by two Members of this House, both by a majority. This doesn't look very orthodox to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u39	However, the counterproof removes any possibility of interpretation. Evidently, I can't get into the secretary's shifts. Senator Volpi may have been able to help us with this. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to confirm the beginning of the examination of the draft law on civil union at the sitting on Tuesday 26 January. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. Once again, there are those who have double votes. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the examination of other draft laws. Of course, if the proposal is adopted, the individual requests will be put to the vote. [[Some M5S Senators raise their hands for different voting options.]] It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. Let's keep going. But I call to order those who make this joke. That's enough. The vote must be aware, let us say so. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the examination of motions. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u42	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in order to avoid any problems, I would kindly ask you to try again, because the strange episode you have just described has also come true in this vote. There have been people who have raised their hands several times.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u43	The person who voted for the abstention was you, after voting against it. So, there are no other people. I call you back to order and ask you not to do it again. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u44	Mr President, it is in my power to vote twice or three times. You are a judge and you have the opportunity to avoid anything because the vote by show of hands is a great scam and then you must stick to it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from the PD Group]] CARDINALI (PD). You're a clown! Stop! Stop it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's gonna fit in! SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm gonna tell her and I'm gonna report myself. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If it's a scam, you don't have to do the scam. So much so that we have the counterproof, when there are doubtful cases. SANTANGELO (M5S). I denounce myself and my group, because what you demand is fairness and it is the correctness that I ask of you. Kindly, I'm asking you for a rehearsal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u45	Senator Santangelo, have a seat. There's no need to rehearse. The con is done by the voter twice or three times. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] Have a seat, Senator Santangelo. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the discussion of other acts of inspection union. Senator Santangelo, you voted twice. [[Brusio.]] It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I call Senator Santangelo to order. Please be recorded. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's work to include government information. GAETTI (M5S). Let's not put our hands down! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Even the suggestion not to lower your hands is a form of badness in the vote! [[Protests of the M5S Group.]] Then keep your hands up! SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order. SANTANGELO (M5S). But how do you talk about fairness? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo. I have the measure of censure against you. Have a seat. SANTANGELO (M5S). Censorship for counterproof? But you're so ashamed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are voting on the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include government information. [[Senator Santangelo points out that he wants to intervene]] It's not approved. CIOFFI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Enough with the jokes! I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to include the report by the Anti-Mafia Commission on the status of information. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, we are in the process of voting. Try to vote. I'm not giving you the floor! SANTANGELO (M5S). But I asked him first! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, you've already been censored. You risk not voting at all. Senator, we're voting. If he wanted to create the accident, he created it. SANTANGELO (M5S). I call for the quorum to be checked before the vote and you must give me the floor! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, won't you vote? We are voting. SANTANGELO (M5S). But what vote? It's not what she says. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me? SANTANGELO (M5S). Give me the word! [[Protests from the PD Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Give me some you, first of all. You're addressing the President, do it with respect. Please ask for the floor. Mr President, you teach me nothing. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Of course, Mr President, I apologise if you have been offended by some of my words. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Try never to be in a position to apologize.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u46	Mr President, you do not come in personally to tell a senator what to do. I will be respectful of your role, but you must be respectful of me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u47	Ask what you have to ask! SANTANGELO (M5S). I asked you... president. The word. You have the floor, please. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, if you have to speak, you speak. I have to do my surgery. Maybe he won't let me do this for a personal matter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely not. SANTANGELO (M5S). Because in that case, you just have to know. I will then put my heart in peace and, day after day, keep my breath on your neck and tell you that you, from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, have very little to teach me. I asked for the quorum to be checked before the previous two votes. At this point, Mr President, you must cancel the two previous votes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Who asked for a quorum check? SANTANGELO (M5S). I'll take you, Mr. President. And you're in no condition to make fun of anyone. I repeat that we are calling for the quorum to be checked. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u48	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on proposals to amend the agenda of the president's proceedings. I therefore put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to include the report by the Anti-Mafia Commission on the status of information. It's not approved. The timetable for the work approved by the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u49	Mr President, there is the Caliendo proposal, which is quite different from all the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u50	It was voted, your proposal, you weren't careful. The debate in this House without limitation of time is what you asked for.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u51	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Then she changed it, because I asked for three days.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u52	Whether it's for three days or no time limit seems the same. We voted on the debate without quotas, then, if the proposal had been accepted, we would have determined how many days of no limitation were needed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u55	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I asked you, without putting it to the vote, to reply if it was possible on your own initiative, on the basis of Rules 157 and 55 of the Rules of Procedure, to include on the agenda the debate on motion 1-00405 on the allocation of F35 nuclear bombs. He didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u56	I don't have to answer that. The Assembly shall reply with the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u59	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr. President, it's starting a new year. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Happy New Year. VOLPI (LN-Aut). You and your colleagues, too. First of all, I would ask you, please, to start looking this way too when you raise your hands to ask for the floor. I think, unfortunately, the good year is seen from the calendar and it will certainly not be a good year. You said a word that impressed me particularly on this occasion, when you spoke of awareness. So, in order to be fully aware, as a campaign senator, I ask you a question and I would like from you an answer in relation to the first vote that we did, the one that according to your personal taste you considered more important, waiting that this cataloguing of importance is also the responsibility of your Presidency and therefore we adapt ourselves kindly, thinking that you are always right, as you, on the other hand, feel that you have. I therefore ask you: in that first vote, did we vote on the quota of time for the vote on the reform of the Constitution, following exactly the idea of Senator Zanda, for which it is only one vote? I would like to confirm this, so that it remains on the record that, since Senator Zanda said it was only one vote, we have contingency times. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Honestly, I have tried to follow, but I do not always understand everything in this House: we have contingency periods on the Constitution, President, because President Zanda (as was said in Julius Caesar's speech, he is a gentleman and he really is) said that it is only one vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u60	The beginning of the explanations of vote was fixed by that deadline. The vote was also taken on that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u63	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I have put forward two requests for changes in the timetable, one in the alternative to the other. I asked before work was interrupted pending the renewal of the Commission's offices and in the alternative, where it was considered that we could proceed with the irregularity in relation to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, that the Board for the Rules of Procedure should be convened, or that work should be interrupted for clarification if we could still continue in violation of the rule that (I must not remind you, but perhaps the citizens do not know) is second only to the Constitution. Can we proceed to reform the Constitution if we are not, as a Senate, regularly constituted? Today, with regard to the timetable, we were talking about the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had already advanced its work. But is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, at a time when the Bureau has not been renewed for almost a year, regularly constituted? You can say it's up to you. I would ask you to interrupt the work and to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to establish it. We have not voted on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u64	We cannot vote, because the Heads of Groups are going to decide independently of the Commission's work - and so it has happened so many times and you know it - that this only results in the fact that that bill or proposal is not being dealt with in the Commission, but directly in the House. This may happen. [[Comments of Senator Endrizzi]] It has happened so many times and therefore we cannot vote, when voting on the timetable, on the convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. This is absolutely out of any scheme. The convening of the Council for the Rules of Procedure will take place when there is a rule to be applied for something that has never happened before or for an absolute interpretation. In fact, Senator Calderoli suggested that work in the Commission could not be completed and that reform should be brought to the House, without rapporteur, as has already been the case. That's it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u66	You have the right to do so. But, Senator Endrizzi, we must not continue a debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u67	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, you are telling me that my request is inadmissible, but you have previously stated that this House is sovereign and you have said so precisely at the time when the proposed changes to the timetable are being made. So you should have declared my proposal inadmissible first, because, in contrast, my proposal is valid today, it is on the table and it must be voted on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are you referring to the proposal to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure? ENDRIZZI (M5S). The proposal to suspend the proceedings, pending a statement by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure... We must vote on changes to the timetable. ENDRIZZI (M5S). ...on changes to the regular formation of the Commissions, in violation of the regulatory article that provides for renewal after the first two years. Nobody has had anything to object to on this proposal, and I therefore ask you to put it to the vote, in accordance with the principle that, in the absence of contradiction, it is possible to proceed. Otherwise we shall put to the vote at least my current request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u70	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak without any malice. Senator Zanda will forgive me and I apologise if I allow myself to speak in this House as a senator and to disturb the majority, because I am taking a few minutes. Senator Zanda will forgive me. I apologize. Having said that, I would just like to understand better: I was not distracted, Mr President, but perhaps I could not understand correctly, because there was a slight confusion. I had asked to include in the calendar the discussion of the bill signed by me for the return of monetary sovereignty to the Italian people. I do not think I have heard you put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u71	I must interrupt you, Senator Scilipoti, because we have said that a vote is taken by gender and, if it is approved, it goes into detail. Evidently, I get high, but I'm not being listened to. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Because you do your job well, as president... president. Evidently not, if there are so many criticisms.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u72	Since there was confusion and I did not understand it, I was allowed to ask, always apologizing to Senator Zanda and to the majority - I open and close the parenthesis - if we allow ourselves to do our work within this House and to express our views. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] Next time we will be silent and we will remember that beautiful book, which you will certainly have read, entitled 'The Farm of Animals', which many in this House, excluding those who come before me, perfectly impersonate, so that you could create a relationship with everything that is written in that book. I would therefore like to thank you, Mr President, for your clarification. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u75	MARTELLI (M5S). I am speaking on a point of order. Article 157, paragraph 3, says that if a motion is signed by at least one fifth of the members of the Senate, it must be discussed within 30 days. This wasn't done. The fact that it is written to us that it must be discussed means that this does not affect any vote in this House: it must, and that is all. In this case, it is the Presidency - you, Mr President - that must put it on schedule. The question is, why aren't you doing this? Article 55 also tells you that it is up to you to change the timetable, otherwise it would not be clear how to follow up Article 157. The question is simple: why aren't you doing it?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u76	The answer is even simpler: because there are so many motions that exceed this number of signatures, so it is necessary to establish in the group leaders what motion to give priority to. Every time you evaluate the motions and then decide the group leader. Here in this House, we have voted not to change the timetable for motions. That is the answer, which I must not give you, because the House gave it. [[Comments of Senators Martelli and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u79	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to clarify. It may be out of my ignorance, but you, in the face of my colleague's request for a point of order, said that an obligation under the Rules of Procedure was exceeded. What legal concept is that? What has it been overcome by?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u80	I didn't say it was over. Then I can't express myself today. I said that there are hundreds of these cases of motions signed by more than twenty-one senators, so we need to set priorities and what to discuss. This is the case in the group leader and then we vote in this House. This has been the case so far. This has always been the case. Changing the practice can certainly be done, but a step must be taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u81	Mr President, forgive me, in the last group leaders I have requested and I have heard that this motion be called into question and no one has raised the problem that there are hundreds of motions with these signatures. If you want to explain...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u82	We'll check the motions that are in these conditions and let you know the numbers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u85	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I am speaking to make only a very modest contribution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, if it is to be a contribution that opens debates, please abstain. FALANGA (AL-A). I don't want to open a debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Because I've already answered that. FALANGA (AL-A). But if you answer by saying that it is the House that decides this, I allow myself to make a modest contribution by saying that that term that has been indicated cannot be peremptory, because, in theory, if there are two hundred motions signed by more than twenty senators, they cannot be discussed within the indicated 30-day period. So the nature of the term peremptory and authorising is the answer that can, more correctly, be given. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u86	Thank you. I thought the concept was clear, but thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u89	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I apologise, but briefly I would like to point out that if there is only one request on the table, the priority is that, and there are no alternatives to consider. Otherwise, the corollary is that when there are so many, none is made. The rights of opposition thus fall and our principles of loyal cooperation also fall. If you tell me there are so many motions, so we don't discuss any of them, we should do the same thing for the bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u90	I didn't say that. Don't make me say things I didn't say. I didn't say there wasn't any discussion. In the next group leader we will provide the data and decide on the motion to be brought to the House as before, and then we will vote in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u91	But look that the "next group leader" was the last group leader and the last group leader was the next group leader, because they are several times that this request is repeated and never once has satisfaction. Even next time, so we know, we will be disappointed and the citizens cuckolded.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u93	Senator Giarrusso, please close this unnecessary queue of debate because in the next Leadership, you, being the Leader, will have the opportunity to have the data of the offices that reproduce the situation and then you will decide, in the Leadership, what motion possibly insert on the calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u94	In any case, a few minutes ago, the House voted that no motion should change the timetable. The House voted! WOMAN (M5S). The PD voted!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u95	Mr President, since there is a new fact represented by the hundreds of motions that hang and since we are at the beginning of the year, the 5 Star Movement calls for the immediate convening of a Conference of the Leaders in order to organize the work of the year. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u98	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on the pending motion, which highlights the fact that almost no question or question is answered. With all due respect, I believe that a summary vote cannot rule out the problem of lack of response to inspection union acts. It is not possible to regard these answers as something that can be procrastinated continuously over time, because we are talking here about years, Mr President, not months. It's about years! I therefore urgently request that this motion be scheduled and put to the vote. [[Applause from Senator Cioffi's FI-PdL XVIIe Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u99	Senator Amidei, I agree with you. The Government has been officially urged several times to provide answers to questions and questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u100	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1678-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, the general discussion took place and the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government and Senator Candiani made a proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this proposal. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1678-B PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, made by Senator Candiani. It's not approved. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. (16.40 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u101	Madam President, in Article 1, which is the heart of this draft law, many amendments have been tabled. We said some things yesterday, during the general debate, and we can take them back now in the debate on the articles. As we have already said, since we can only intervene on the modified parts of the House, there is a whole series of proposals. For example, we have put forward a number of proposals on the need to take account of the specific characteristics of the labour market compared with that of services and supplies, with regard to the contracting stations and the unions of the municipalities, we call for the unions of municipalities which become contracting stations to be made up of territorially homogeneous municipalities. Then there is a whole series of other proposals that we have put forward. All in all, all these proposals tend to include a higher level of transparency and to clear up some of the passages inserted later. One of the issues we are most interested in is concessions. We have talked a lot about motorway concessions, which are the ones that come to mind the most. Having opened a door, which had not been completely closed already in the passage to the Senate at first reading and which was further opened to the House, represents a vulnus that we would not have liked to see. We would have hoped that the House would have more strength and greater capacity to resist the tickling attacks of the various lobbyists, who want to look at their own interests. Maybe there's a little more energy in the Senate, maybe there's a little more strength in the Senate, maybe we're a little older in the Senate and we have the ability to resist. Of course, I am talking about my group. I do not think the other groups have the capacity to resist, since they have changed the rule and therefore they do not have that capacity. You have to have the ability to resist lobby pressure, otherwise we won't get out. We should then have the strength to change and bring back some modified passages from the House to the original text of the Senate. We are aware that the urgency of the fact that Community directives must be transposed by April prompts the majority and the Government to finally adopt this bill. They say better wounded than dead. It's an old saying. But this "better wounded" always leads us to find ourselves in situations where we could reach a high level of legislative quality and instead we proceed to pickles and bites, with this fact of being content. We are constantly content with something that if it is not perfect, because perfection does not exist under any circumstances and in no way at all, it would be nice to think of it as a compromise (because at the end of compromise it is a compromise) as that, since we will long talk about the Constitution, which reached the constituent Fathers, who found a solution by framing different visions to achieve a common and shared objective. That is the level at which we should all strive. No, we can't do this anymore. With the amendments we have tabled to Article 1, we have tried to push in this direction and will continue to do so, so that Parliament continues to have the strength it must have. If we do not have the strength to be powerfully focused on collective interest, without fear of kicking merchants out of the temple (to use a comparison of someone who said so many years ago), it means that we are not good at lawmakers. And if we're not good at lawmakers, maybe we're not even worthy of being in here. But since we were better at the Senate, we should think about how well this Senate is capable of doing things. It is not that we do things better than the House, for goodness sake, no one means this; but the Senate may have the strength to resist pressure, probably due to experience. I repeat that this does not apply to everyone, because here in the Senate too there are these actions. We should refocus everything on this, so all the amendments we have tabled are basically in this direction. Of course, we hope that some amendments will be adopted, although we are sure that this will not happen, because of course we are not looking at and not looking at the amendments, but we are only looking at the interest of the majority, who want to achieve its result, so that we can put that famous flag - as we have said so many times - and to allow someone, who believes that he is a leader, to be able to make his usual tweet. In the end, what interests us is the interest of the citizens. Imagine how nice it is if one day, on the way out of here, all the citizens would tweet at the same time and say: Parliament has represented us worthily. Instead of the tweet of one, sixty million tweets, maybe all addressed to that same person who believes he can interpret the thought of those 60 million and who, instead, probably interprets the thought of a much smaller number of people, who however are those who have the power. And since we always continue to oppose the logic of power, when power tends not to make the collective interest, it would be nice if in all the actions we do give the possibility to all citizens to make sixty million tweets. We shall see this when we consider amendment by amendment, because we will ask for the floor on each of them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u102	Madam President, I rise on two agendas which I consider to be crucial, taking the opportunity to have the Minister in the Chamber and taking up his reply last night on a matter that is particularly dear to us. As far as our agenda is concerned, Mr G1.12 I shall go back to the debate we had on the fact that, in essence, we have removed the objective law. You know very well that we, on this passage, were absolutely not hostile. As long as there are two guarantees: the first is to do the works in the country and, the second, is that the works, which in any case in this country are considered strategic, are taken into consideration; perhaps doing, as you, Minister, had promised, a punctual reconnaissance with the Regions. Rightly, last night, in reply, you said that perhaps Senator Crosio is concerned that the works have disappeared, when in reality they are not. I would like to clarify one point, Minister (I believe that we are saying the same thing, but it is good to put the dots not only on the "i" but also on the "a" and "i" as used in another language). I agree with you that the objective law - and we have always said this - was a book of dreams: we have seen everything and more of works that have never been realized; but within the objective law there were also works planned with judgment, planned, contracted and running. It is clear that the administrator of a territory who no longer finds a piece of paper on which the name and surname of a work is written is a little concerned, Minister. It's legitimate to worry. Personally, I place great trust in your person, because you show that you are a serious person; I have less faith in your Government and your Prime Minister, but I can absolutely believe in your person. Then I ask myself: all right, let us forget the objective law, but it is not necessary, Minister, to create a rag of paper on which to insert the name and surname of certain works, which must be realized, how much money is there and how should they be spent and who put this money? You know very well, in fact, that the money has been put by the Ministry, the Regions, the Provinces, the mountain communities and so on. I say this on the basis of the fact, Minister, that there are territories that have done their homework and have been wise and other territories that do not deserve the works they consider to be priority and that have never been. In fact, we have defined them as strategic works for decades, but if they had been strategic it would be wondering why they did not realize them: because there was not, first of all, the political will and then the political agreement. Then it is important for us to make this distinction and with the agenda G1.12 we ask for a strong commitment (which can be modulated, inventing what we want and also rewriting it) to sanction and underline the fact that in all parts of our country there are administrations that have worked well and that we do not want them to be assimilated to those that have done badly. I will tell you more and start to conclude. As I said in the Commission today and yesterday to your colleague, Minister for Economic Affairs, I am always very concerned when a Minister for Economic Affairs comes to the Commission with public works, having gained a good parliamentary experience even in a majority that I supported (history is perhaps repeated also in your majority). I say this because it is important that you do not pass the principle, that someone claims, that if there are resources available, they must be placed inside a safe in the availability of the government. We do not agree: money must have a name and a surname and no one must come to try to divert funding towards other initiatives, as has happened. Let me give you an example, which I have monitored, about accessibility in Valtellina, where a short time ago Minister Padoan distorted 4 million euros. Some will say that EUR 4 million is very few compared to the 280 million public works that are being carried out. I'm sure you do. The work is not at risk, but I do not like it is the principle by which, in order to make the accounts right and satisfy the boiling of the State Accounting to avoid problems, the Minister of Economy, who thinks like an accountant, went from here to there and collected money to protect the work, claiming that it is money from ANAS. All right, it's in. Minister, this is a fundamental principle. I believe that we can share the need to write exactly what are the truly priority works for the country, such as funding and what are the times. Minister, you were right not to show off too much at the opening of the crossing variant. She was present, but she was very discreet (I noticed) and did well. On the other hand, President Renzi was in the front row and in the pump he played the role of Prime Minister, who was particularly good for him. Let me say something a little controversial. The two top galleries are precisely the synthesis of how the procurement code must regulate certain situations that continue to occur in our country even if they do not have to happen again. Firstly, on two galleries costing EUR 480 million as an auction base, there are 530 million reserves (we are talking about a work planned in 1982 which we are now delivering). We have not been phenomena: I am referring to all those who have had responsibilities. Mr. Minister, I'm telling you with my heart: it's time to stop making the catwalk when we block construction sites, and then open them up and - we're very shameless in this country - go put the second stone. Unfortunately, they made you do that too, Minister, because that is what happens in this country. You came to the Lombardy Region and to the shipyard of the Stabio Arcisate, which has been stationary for a year, we cut the ribbon again because the works are well or badly distributed. In my opinion, in this case - and I say this to you - I also assume a part of the responsibility of the political party because in the matter of responsibility who is without sin throws the first stone - we must perhaps apologize to the citizens, rather than cut a ribbon. I am saying this in a rather joking way, but the mission that we must give ourselves with the reform of the procurement code is to avoid these things in our country because we are able to do so and we have said it to ourselves. Taking just the example that I have just told you - you know the situation well and I think that colleagues are also pleased to know - the same work carried out by the same Italian company in the part of the Swiss Confederation is over; we will finish it in 2017. It's not the government's fault - it's not a joke - but it's the country's fault. It is clear that we have difficulties if the procedure and protocol are 20 kilometers long in Italy when on the other side only half a meter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Let's make new rules, and here we want to do it. That is what animated the spirit and approach we had with this measure. I have taken a few more minutes, Madam President, because I will not speak on all the amendments, but I will do so in the explanation of vote in a more redundant way to explain our expectations of these delegations that we are going to give to the Government, which are very important. It is very difficult - and I also understand Mr Delrio - after hearing the words of the Minister for Economic Affairs yesterday that, like all the Ministers for Economic Affairs, when he talks about infrastructure, rationalization and privatisation, he has only one objective: that of cashing out, not thinking that it is an opportunity for modernization and development. I am addressing Parliament: we have the opportunity here, but not only in this - there will be the question of the privatisation of the railways - to help the country and to ensure that this does not happen. Madam President, in the country we continue to accentuate and show negative things. On the infrastructure we can say that, as far as the railways are concerned, on high speed we have nothing to learn from anyone, because today we see a system for which from Milan to Rome to Naples you travel very well. If, however, we go out of this route, and we talk about regional railways and everything else, the situation is disastrous; and if we talk about freight transport we are a thousand years behind. Mr Minister, there are amendments which go in this direction. Compared to my agenda, maybe rewrite them together, do something, but give us a signal. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u103	I address the greetings of the Assembly to the students of the State Institute of Higher Education "Leonardo Da Vinci" in Florence, who are visiting the Senate to follow our work. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u104	Madam President, having withdrawn the amendment, I would like to outline the agenda for G1.3. It is highlighted as an excellent code of contracts, such as what we are issuing, lacks a part that should see, thanks to the sensitivity of Minister Delrio - for which I think that this agenda will undoubtedly be accepted, because it is in the interest of the country - valorize, also from the point of view of the organic discipline of which we will be given thanks to the decrees, in the field of public works, of the aspects relative to the quality of the project. They have been the foundation of this procurement code. All this at the same time evaluating the theme of the project and the objective services, which is achieved in some calls thanks to a functional and performance needs that can see two issues in the order of interest of the community and the public bodies that are involved and interested in it. The first is public-private co-financing in order to reach that performance and functional need, thanks to a discipline that comes to be provided with the pre-commercial contract in relation to the possibility of investing, often thanks to European funding for this purpose (especially in the POR, but not only), directly on innovation that can arise thanks to a contract. Therefore, not only pre-packaged contracts in relation to what is to be achieved, but open contracts, which go to see the public and the private together co-finance the innovation that can lead - and very often determines - to an economic improvement of the supply, thus a reduction of the costs, a better quality of the offer and, in the case of patents, also the possibility for the public and the private to enjoy the benefits that this innovation produces over time. Therefore, I wanted to explain this agenda for the inclusion, within the implementing decrees of the procurement code that we are going to vote on, of a further improvement as we are the country that invented them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u105	Madam President, I have tabled a few amendments and I would like to explain at least a few of them. With Amendment 1.32 I propose to reduce, by returning to the text approved to the Senate, the obligations of amalgamation and recourse to forms of aggregation for the municipalities. I believe that when Article 5 of the Constitution speaks of maximum decentralisation and local authorities not only refer to the faculty of municipal councils to discuss, but also to decide and to do or not to do things for the people who elected them and to whom they are accountable. This obligation to aggregate procedures at the supracommunal level may have its motivations up to a certain point, but in doing so we risk in many cases, if we talk with local administrators, including those of the Democratic Party, going in the direction of the paralysis of the institutions. A municipality, all the more so if small, could face a small job that, although small, serves to solve the needs of the local population, which is protected by Article 3 of the Constitution. Here we have been working for a long time as if there were A-series citizens, who are those who are in the capitals, possibly in Tuscany, and the B-series citizens or C-series citizens of the smallest municipalities. Article 5 of the Constitution does not say that; Article 3 says that all Italians are equal and, then, how is it that certain services are reserved for some? A small town that wants to do a job must centralize the client on a supra-municipal level. This means that for a job with an irresistible cost it must involve other municipalities, who are not interested in that job because it solves problems of the other Municipality. (Following Mr Malan) You waste a lot of time: local officials and administrators must always go back and forth without further burdens, as the rules that are being approved say. The burden lies precisely in this: that local administrators, civil servants and civil servants, rather than doing useful work for citizens, run back and forth to carry out these bureaucratic tasks. All this happens for the sake of saving. This fact of centralization and the reduction of spending centres, I know that goes the most in these times. I, however, have an original opinion on this. I believe that, if expenditure is too much, it is necessary to reduce the total amount of expenditure and not the number of people who spend. If you spend too much money in a family, or some member of this family is a water sink and a wretch, and then you really have to avoid giving them money in hand, or, if they are generally reasonable people, it doesn't help to force each of the family members to go and ask this person for money every time. Maybe one of these guys is out of the house, wants to go to the movies, but he has to go home and get permission to get the money. The savings, if anything, would be in not going to the movies and thus save that money, not in having to go back and forth to get permission. Instead, here we go in the opposite direction. On the reduction of expenditure, in fact, this Government has achieved absolutely negative results. That's what ISTAT says, and not some opposition force. At the same time, however, the autonomy of local authorities is reduced. Then there must be something wrong. Perhaps, although I have a heretical position, I am right to say that if we want to reduce expenditure, we should spend less and not be less spending more. It seems a trivial and obvious logical consideration, but most of the measures that have been taken for years go in logic, not to spend less, but to reduce the number of people who spend more. If then the problem is the small municipalities, then we have to take an example from the larger municipalities. Let's take an example from the largest municipality in Italy: Roma Capitale. Rome Capital is a good example of spending? Now, without the controversy over the various Juntas, I would say that, according to what has emerged lately, Rome is not the model to which we should ask the small and medium-sized Municipalities to conform. While it has become clear that in the largest municipality is where the most spectacularly negative episodes have happened, at least on the media level, we want to ask the small municipalities to be inspired precisely by the big ones. These are really weird and incomprehensible things! Amendment 1.36 addresses the time when there will be these races at supra-municipal or even provincial level (because I fear that, however, the majority will prevail). I come from a province that is now a metropolitan city. Therefore, we have been deprived of the constitutional right to choose who governs this Province, which precisely took the name of metropolitan city: three hundred and sixteen municipalities, each of which should be headed by a single central structure, where no one is paid. Evidently, chaos will increase. With this amendment, I would ask that, when unopened procedures are made, i.e. speedy procedures where individuals are invited, they should not be excluded, unless they lack the necessary requirements, subjects proposed by the individual municipalities. I have heard many mayors say that they had a job to do, with a company that was present in a given municipality and that it was willing to do the work for 100. Well, not only did they have to lose months to do the central race, but then that company was not invited (and so much patience) and the best offer of the companies invited was from 150 up. Are these the savings we want to make? That is why I tabled this amendment. That is why I ask the rapporteur, who is rightly seated among the benches of the Government (and for this reason I wish him well, also because the important thing is that he is present), to consider, if necessary, the transformation of amendment 1.36 into an agenda. I am aware of the determination of the majority not to make any changes. I am still making a few quick comments on two other amendments that I have tabled. In particular, 1.88 proposes to return to the text approved by the Senate, proposed in particular by the rapporteur. With 1.95, as far as the in-house assignments of motorway concessions are concerned, I would ask you to add another letter specifying that these work in-house must be entrusted to fully public companies for at least three years. This is in order to avoid some corporate funambolism, some tricks to circumvent the rules on 'in house, perhaps with a private who temporarily gives his shares to a public subject, the latter takes the concession and then sells, perhaps even with a small gain, to this private subject, who avoids the annoying comparison of the competition. I stress that in house it means relying on participating companies, those participating companies on which we have been hearing statements for months, immediately after the Democratic Party has promoted the referendum to remove the nuisance of competition to the participating companies that run public services. From the day after they guaranteed them, they began to say that they must be reduced; so far nothing has been done about them, and a government provision has been announced for tomorrow. Yes, tomorrow there will also be a government measure, but today we approve a text in which we give additional space to the participants. I have nothing against the participants in general: they can be very useful and more efficient than private companies, so if they do so they will race and win the best. There was a certain coach who, when he was told: "Win the best" he said: "Sperem de no" Well, maybe there's someone here who's aware that he's not the best, so it's better not to race, otherwise the best really wins. [[Applause from Senator Amidei.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u108	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I will be very brief and I apologise for the rudeness of having to ask you the following question, which I wanted to ask President Grasso, but I needed time for research. A short time ago, our Parent Company called for the Conference of Leaders to be convened and did not get an answer. I found that on September 16, 2015, President Grasso granted this request to Senator Zanda, Head of the Democratic Party. He was the only one who asked for the Conference to be convened and then I pointed out in this Chamber that the Movement, like any political force, had to have the same possibilities as all political forces. I therefore ask you why double standards have been adopted and why the possibility of convening a Conference of Leaders has been denied following the request made by Senator Giarrusso.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u109	Of course, you have raised your question. As far as I know, when there are requests from Groups, the practice is to allow the Conference of Leaders to be convened. We're gonna do some checks and I'm gonna be the bearer of your case.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u110	Mr President, I will speak very briefly because in reality there are few amendments and most of them call for a return to the text approved by the Senate, which, according to our thinking, brought a better interpretation of procurement rules. Amendment 1.89 reduces the time taken to reinstate the concessions in place before the new legislation is put into effect. Amendment 1,101 affects a sacrosanct right, the right to pay subcontractors directly. In this respect, however, it is proposed to add, in the absence of misunderstandings, that this should take place provided that there are progress reports or evidence that the work has been done in a proper and appropriate manner; otherwise the representative, who could be with badly done works, would be affected, but could not block payments because they are made directly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u111	Mr President, as Italy of values, we have tabled Amendment 1,204 to Article 1 (1) and the G1.7 agenda. Amendment 1,204, concerning workers, establishes in situations of areas concerned with procurement, services and works related to a public concession, the provision of a "site committee" consisting of a representative of the company concerned by the site and of trade union representatives appointed by each trade union organisation signatory to the national contract applied, within the framework of the RSU, with the task of agreeing, discussing and verifying the common issues of the site starting from the management of the "employment basin" which can be created by reorganisations, restructurings, disposal of activities; the meetings of the site committee will be held on a bimonthly basis or at the request of one of the parties on a day's agenda communicated in advance: the trade union meetings relating to the themes of the site are among the paid trade union hours provided for by the national contracts; they will also be examined for the intrinsic characteristics and for the problems present in the companies of the site, which have particular problems of reuse." The G1.7 agenda follows the line taken by this amendment. "Considering that, during the examination to the Chamber of Deputies, article 1 paragraph 1 has been integrated previewing that the specific discipline regards also the services and introduces "social clauses" for the occupational stability of the staff employed with such order of the day is asked the Government to consider the opportunity to preview, in situations of areas interested to activities of contracts, services and works connected to a public concession, the constitution of a "site committee" composed of a representative of the company involved in the site and of trade union representatives appointed by each trade union organization signatory to the national contract applied, within the framework of the RSU, with the task to agree, discuss and verify the common problems of the site starting from the management of the occupational basin." Well, if the above amendment is not adopted, we would ask at least that this agenda be accepted. In short, we would like to protect workers, because when changes in procurement and management take place, people who work often find themselves in difficulty and are often sent home.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u113	Senator Crosio, spoke earlier during the illustration phase.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u114	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). I have previously set out the agenda and I would now like to table an amendment. If this is not possible, I shall then speak in the explanation of vote. The amendment concerned RAI and was intended to strengthen what you did in the Supervisory Committee, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You should have explained that in your previous speech, I'm sorry. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u115	Mr President, I am against all the amendments, except for Amendments Nos 1,201, 1,36, 1,202 and 1,203, which I call on the authors to turn into agendas. I am in favour of the G1.1, G1.2 and G1.3 agendas. I am against the G1.4 agenda. I am in favour of the G1.5 agenda. I am against the G1.6 and G1.7. agendas. Finally, I welcome the G1.8, G1.9 and G1.10, G1.11, G1.12, G1.13 and G1.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u116	Senator Di Biagio, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation to turn Amendments 1,201 1,202 and 1,203 into agendas? DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation to turn Amendment 1.36 into an agenda? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u117	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u118	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senators Cioffi and Scibona. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.6. tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u121	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 1.12, first signed by Senator Cervellini, intervenes in the field of emergency procedures and, in the case of particular derogations from the classic methods for which a whole series of obligations are to be carried out, calls for the state of emergency to be decided in advance so that the situation can be defined as such. They are small things, sometimes a little trivial but they are necessary if we think about history. In fact it seems to me that in this country with the emerging procedures, in the Bertolasian era, there has been so much, too much, even more than what can be called human. I exaggerate in my statements not to use swear words remembering that period. However, the statement of the state of emergency is really the least when you want to derogate from certain procedures, and to prevent tomorrow from happening again what happened when it had to be done, if I remember correctly - what was it? - a G7 or a G20; it seems to me that something had to be done in Sardinia which was then done in L'Aquila, it seems to me to vaguely remember that this has happened, in short, to prevent certain things from happening again with the famous emergency society, Amendment 1.12 adds this specification. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the amendment tabled by Senator Cervellini.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u124	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to Amendment No 1.12 because it seems correct to entrust an official act, namely the decree, the determination of the state of emergency, so that it is not left to the free discretion of those who may be responsible for the procedure. So, basically in agreement with this amending proposal, I would ask my fellow Members, Mr Cervellini and Mr De Petris, to be able to endorse it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u125	I take note of that, Senator Falanga. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,200 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.17, tabled by Senator Aracri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.16.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u128	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, with Amendment No 1.16 I call for "RAI mom" to be subject, as far as procurement is concerned, to the rules that apply throughout the country. The amendment provides that the contracts concluded by RAI and the companies fully participated by RAI, for works, services and supplies, are nevertheless subject to the procedural and transparency obligations provided for by the decrees referred to in paragraph 1. And on this there has been a long debate in Parliament, even when the reform was approved. We do not understand why RAI should be allowed to do what it considers most appropriate, regardless of what the transparency rules should be. If we then find ourselves in the unworthy spectacle that we witnessed in the last year and that today, in the RAI Supervisory Committee, has been brought to the attention of the President and of the entire board of directors, let me say that precisely in RAI we must try - in our opinion - to put stakes, so that there is transparency and quality in concluding contracts and contracts for supplies, works and services. Unfortunately - as someone wrote - it seems that the matter is getting out of hand. And this is just an amendment that also wants to bring RAI back to a civilized environment and within the rules that we are giving the country. We do not understand why RAI should have a preferential lane over the rest of the world. Just today the President told us that she wants a company that is up to date and within the social context of the country. Then let's start with this act. If we say that transparency is needed in the country and we establish certain rules, I don't see why we have to make deregulation with regard to RAI contracts.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u131	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add my signature and that of my fellow Members, Mr Cioffi and Mr Ciampollo, to Amendment No 1,16, on which we shall be voting in favour, since these are issues which we agree with.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u132	Senators Falanga and Maurizio Rossi, as well as Senators of Left Ecology and Freedom, are also calling for their signature to be added to this amendment. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1201 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.32, tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G1.36 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.34, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,37, tabled by Senators Cioffi and Scibona. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,38, tabled by Senator Cioffi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.40, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,41, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.42, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.202 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 1.46 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.47 tabled by Senator Cioffi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.53, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.54, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.54, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.55, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.57.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u135	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, with Amendment 1.57 we are intervening on a change that has been made by the House, in which we are talking about the incentive to civil servants during the technical phase, which concerns design, direction, testing, safety and so on. The House, with respect to the current legislation, which provides that this incentive, within the maximum limit of 2%, can be granted to public officials also for the planning phase, has eliminated the design phase, because you want to have a high quality of the project. I understand that, and that's fine. However, the current rule provides that this incentive can be obtained if technical operations are carried out outside working hours - as it is written - while it has often been used in a particular way. It happened, in fact, that some public administrations - in particular, several officials - called a freelancer and made him do the project, which they signed, taking 2%; and then, to please him, they entrusted him with the direction of the work. That's what happened. Now this practice is over, but 2 percent has become a dry amount, not modulated according to the tender amount. As everyone who carries out this profession knows, the compensation depends on the amount of the race, obviously climbing from the lowest to the highest amounts. Having set the threshold of 2%, which is valid for a work of 100,000 euros as for one of 100 million euros, has the effect that, if that amount is not modulated, for the public administration it is very burdensome, from the economic point of view, to have the work done inside. We, then, simply asked to modulate that sum, just as it normally happens for all freelancers, for a matter of justice and fairness, to put on the same level the work done internally and that carried out externally. When systems move in parallel, distortions can be avoided. That is why we have tabled this amendment, which I know very well that this House will reject. In any case, we will revisit the subject during the discussion of the agenda, when I will try to understand why the rapporteur has expressed the opposite opinion. I therefore call on the House to vote on the amendment, listening to those who have been in the profession for so many years and who have been able to know the subject well, even though they have not learned anything particular. I'm telling you, these things work badly. If you want to act in a normal way in order to achieve the maximum goal, you need to know the matter well and perhaps start studying again. But this is an old speech that we have already done so many times.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u136	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,57, tabled by Senator Cioffi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.60, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.61 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.62, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.64 and 1.30 (text 2) have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.66, tabled by Senators Cioffi and Scibona. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.67 tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.68, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.71, tabled by Senators Scibona and Cioffi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.73, tabled by Senators Scibona and Cioffi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.74, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.74, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.203 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.75, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.76, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio to vote by a simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,204. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.78, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.80, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.80, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.83.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u139	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, with this amendment, together with 1.85, let us try to take back the text on the section on dealers outside the Senate, on which we already had some doubts. It is true that we had planned that 100% should go to competition, but it had left the door open for the dealers who had awarded the concession through a European tender. Now, instead, we've made things worse. Amendment 1.83 calls for the elimination of the part where concessions are being made or for new award. At least for the newly awarded concessions - which this amendment deals specifically with - we try to ensure that there are no limits and that all works are entrusted by tendering procedure. It is not really possible to understand the failure that has been highlighted in the Chamber in this specific passage. We talked about this already yesterday in general discussion: it is the famous failure to power groups - we will call them lobbying - but I wonder why we do not have the strength to say that we do not like these things. We don't have the strength because those power groups probably keep us bivouacing or floating. Our aim has always been to ensure that, whenever someone proposes something that is not in the specific collective interest, the door remains closed. With this amendment and with the next 1.85 - which we will be talking about shortly - let us try to close that door again. The doors with the openings, where a draft of wind enters, we never liked them. It is good to keep them closed, and this applies to all levels, to all sectors, to all things.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u140	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.83, tabled by Senators Cioffi and Scibona. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.84, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u141	Students and teachers of the Liceo Scientifico-Linguistico are attending the Senate's work, which we greet.Elio Vittorini of Gela, in the province of Caltanissetta. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u142	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.85.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u145	CIOFFI (M5S). With this amendment we intend to return - as we said for the previous one, but in a more meaningful way, because the vulnus was inserted in the House - to the text approved by the Senate. As we have said in general debate, we tried to maintain a profile in the Senate that included the free thought of all the members of the Infrastructure Commission, where we tried to work cleanly, free from what are the impulses of the various Groups of belonging. We have reasoned by trying to make the circle square in the collective interest and, in several respects, we have succeeded. You have to recognize it. As we said yesterday, in fact, in the end we abstained from voting because we did not like some passages, but on the whole the text was not bad. In the House, however - I repeat - someone knocked on the door and someone else opened it. And then I have to applaud Senator Stefano Esposito, who slammed that door in her face instead. Probably his equivalent to the House did not have the bones so strong or perhaps they advised him - we use this term, even if it is sometimes difficult to find the specific one - that this was a just, balanced solution, a solution that could penetrate everyone's needs. Here we speak, as always, of dealers and, therefore, of those who should manage what is of the State and build on behalf of the State certain things to have their profit. We have already said that the motorway dealers pay money to the state, but the large profits perceived in the fat years of the concessions have allowed those gentlemen to fatten on the people's skin, so much so that the cost of the toll has always been raised. When we privatised Autostrade for Italy and the work was completely amortized, theoretically we didn't have to pay the toll, except for maintenance. The business plans, however, were made at sans - façon, carlona, we love each other, just to put some money in someone's pockets. And so we started that process of privatization all'italiana that led us to have Motorways for Italy and many other agencies privatized in the hands of those private lords that I define knitters, because weave the shirts. Benetton does jerseys, but you use those jerseys for other things, too. Then everything that happened with the other privatizations that we know the outcome of. If we want to remember one, let's call up the Telecom case: climbed twice in debt, now it has a hole of 26 billion and still has the copper network built with the citizens' money. And we don't have the courage to do the famous fiber optic public network, which we've already talked about. Highway dealers have made so much fat in recent years and now complain in the newspapers because revenues have decreased as traffic has decreased by 20 percent. We are truly sorry for these gentlemen, who will find us tomorrow at the corner of the road asking for alms because they are poor and have no more to live. In view of all this, we give them a further gift - they must be able to entrust their internal societies, which are therefore theirs - by 20%, because we have reduced to 80%. Their companies, controlled by them, can make 20%. So, if I have to do a work I tell the state with the business plan, where I have to indicate the cost of the work because it is part of the charging system and, therefore, of what the citizens who travel on the highway pay, that the cost is 100 million. I do, however, make 20 million from a company I own. But who controls whether those 20 million are real or fictitious? Are they real or fake? In the end, however, there are 100 million spent on the state. We therefore say that we are competing because the procedure is transparent with them. If I give my brother a contract, the money stays between us. It's still a fake trace. That's why it wasn't necessary to open that door, but to prevent such things, because the fat made in this country ended up in the pockets of someone who, perhaps, could think that the world is made of smart people who put money in their pockets and manage to float in a sea where many people are underwater, a sea full of dirt to clean up. And to do that, you have to have the courage to tell those gentlemen that, after eating and getting fat for so many years, now is perhaps the time to start taking a slimming cure, so maybe even citizens can eat a piece of bread. These are small things that, however, become great because they allow us to be clear in our political action, without fear. You have to have the courage to do things without fear. What's the best that's gonna happen? At most, someone can say that a nice weird story is happening around you. And then we get all the cases mediated around these facts. That's nice! How beautiful is the democracy in which we live, where everything is image and nothing is substance. We would have asked for a little substance and a straight back, because that is the only way we are able to play the parliamentarians. If we don't have a straight back, we can't even be men and women. Well, it would be enough to be men, women, to be people and to know that we exist beyond these walls. It would suffice to know that we exist beyond that finger that we press on a button to say that we exist, but we exist as a number and not as a biological and thinking entity. Perhaps we should do this, and that is why we continue to table amendments, unnecessarily, because we know that you will never approve them. But we keep telling you, because the wheel turns and, sooner or later, someone on its upper side will be on the lower side, between the wheel and the sidewalk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u146	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.85 tabled by Senators Cioffi and Scibona, until the words "all" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,86 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.87 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.88 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.89.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u149	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, in the wake of Mr Cioffi's speech, all the more so, given that there is a danger, the transition period must be as short as possible. So, we had proposed a six-month period, already at first beating. The measure was then approved for a 12-month period, and the House brought it back to twenty-four months. At this point, I request that the period be restricted to six months, which seems to me to be an appropriate time for a change of standard between old and new.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u150	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.89 tabled by Senator Scibona, until the words "the following" are inserted. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,92 are therefore not included. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.95 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.96 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.97, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.98 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.99, tabled by Senators Cioffi and Scibona. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,101, tabled by Senators Scibona and Cioffi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1,102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,102, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,104, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,105 tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,106, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,107, tabled by Senators Cioffi and Scibona. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,108, tabled by Senators Cioffi and Scibona. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,109, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.110, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,111, tabled by Senators Cioffi and Scibona. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1,112 tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,113 tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,114, tabled by Senators Cioffi and Scibona. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,115, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,116 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.79 tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As they have been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G1.1, G1.2 and G1.3 will not be put to the vote. On the agenda, Mr G1.4 was given an opinion against this. Senator Cioffi, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u151	Mr President, we have tabled three agendas. With the agenda G1.4, on which the Government has the opposite opinion, we ask that the forms of aggregation of the commission take place at the level of unions of the territorially homogeneous municipalities. Theoretically it is useless to specify it, but in some situations the contracting stations include municipalities located in various places of Italy. I would like to try to understand why the rapporteur has expressed the opposite opinion, since we do nothing but go back to the text approved by the Senate, when we were talking about provincialization, i.e. subprovincial areas. We simply ask that the municipalities joining together to make a contracting station be in a territorially homogeneous area. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur why he has voted against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u152	Senator Esposito, Senator Cioffi draws your attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u153	CIOFFI (M5S). I would like to understand why you have voted against the G1.4 agenda. I would like to understand the reasons for this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi, the rapporteur has already voiced the opposite view and must not intervene again. CIOFFI (M5S). I know, ma'am, but Senator Esposito and I have a report from... president. I understand, but we need to follow a procedure that doesn't change according to interpersonal relationships. CIOFFI (M5S). I would like to ask the rapporteur whether there is a wording which allows us to change the opinion from an opposite to a favourable one. [[The rapporteur points out that there is no such thing as a refusal.]] Then I insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u154	If he had changed his mind, he would have told us. We're in the Senate and we need to follow a procedure. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.4 tabled by Senator Cioffi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We note that Senator Corsini was unable to vote in the previous vote, but his intention was to vote against it. Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.5 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Cioffi, do you insist on voting on agenda G1.6?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u155	I insist and gladly make the following statement. We are repeating what we have already said about the amendment that we discussed earlier, which provided for the 2% limit for the compensation to be paid to civil servants working in this sector. We have not understood why we do not want to postpone 2% and, because we do not want to do so, we would like to ask the rapporteur why, as it is something that we believe is right and correct. And, since we believe it to be so, we would like to understand why the rapporteur wants to give an opinion against it. If you do not want to change your opinion, we ask you to put it to the vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u156	It does not seem to me that we want to change our minds, despite his further appeal. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of agenda G1.6 tabled by Senator Cioffi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask those present whether they insist on voting on the agenda for G1.7?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u157	Mr President, I am not a friend of Senator Esposito, like Senator Cioffi, but I am interested to know why there is no possibility of setting up site committees. When there are contracting stations, it often happens then to change contracts and workers, linked to that contract, remain vacant and often have inappropriate and appropriate contracts. It would therefore be useful to provide for site committees, in order to protect such workers and to ensure that, even in the event of a change of contracts, they can still be incorporated into work and protected by national collective agreements which respect the laws and their rights. I therefore do not understand why we cannot accept an agenda to do so. I probably find it difficult to understand, but I would have liked an explanation perhaps a little bit more technical than the one between myself and the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u158	We always stick to procedures, regardless of the greater or lesser relationships of friendship between the individual senators. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.7 tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G1.8, G1.9, G1.10 and G1.11 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u161	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are calling for the G1.12 agenda, although accepted by the Government, to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u162	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.12, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1.13 and G1.14 will not be put to the vote. Since the draft law consists of only Article 1, at this point we should move on to the explanations of vote, which will take place in the afternoon sitting tomorrow, since today's sitting will end at 6.30 p.m. for the holding of meetings of parliamentary groups, which have made its timely communication. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u165	[[Brusio.]] I would ask colleagues, as usual, to leave without disturbing the conduct of the speeches at the end of the sitting. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id)). Mr President, as the newspapers have amply reported, in the case of Stefano Cucchi, who had been hospitalized seventeen times in the emergency room for injuries, fractures and injuries, the last time fifteen days before the arrest (a massacre of beatings these seventeen times certainly not by the Forces of the Order), the family had formed a civil part until in the cassation against three custody agents, which were absolved with final judgment, while all the technical expertise and even the committee of parliamentary inquiry, chaired by our colleague Ignazio Marino, have categorically excluded that between the alleged injury and death of Cucchi there is no report. In the case of Giuseppe Uva, three times different prosecutors had asked for the dismissal of policemen and policemen, and the ongoing trial started for a forced indictment of the judge for preliminary investigations. In this picture, the sisters of Cucchi and Uva have published photos of a policeman and a policeman indicating them as the murderers of their relatives. In the face of the tide of insults, intimidation, threats of death, which have overwhelmed the two ill-headed and their families, who have been subjected to a veritable media lynching, no voice has risen, neither of the President of the House, nor of the President of the Senate, nor of the President of the Council, nor of the Minister of the Interior, nor of the Minister of Defense, to defend two servants of the State whose only proven fault would be to remain in physical form, as the photos showed at the time when they were published. Mr President, in the face of this public intimidation, which affects not only a policeman and a policeman but also puts all those who are members of the Forces of Order to the fore, without even some of them even being sent back to trial or investigated, I urge the response to the questioning 2-00338 that I have presented with other colleagues, so that the Minister of the Interior and the President of the Council tell us what they intend to do to prevent policemen and policemen being thrown out, pointed out to the public, without having been established against them any responsibility. [[Applause from Senators Alicata and Rizzotti. Comments from the Mixed-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u166	Let Senator Giovanardi, who, like everyone else, have the right to do the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u169	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, we have this news. Philips asks suppliers to bring Saeco components to Romania. This is the move of the Dutch multinational to bypass the blocks of the garrison of the Saeco plant in Gaggio Montano, in the Tuscan-Emilian Apennines. Everyone knows Saeco, Italian excellence in coffee machines. In the press note with precision we read: Saeco informs that the blocking of production and logistics activities in progress for 48 days has unfortunately forced the company to activate the procedures in order to request its suppliers to temporarily direct the necessary components to the production of automatic machines of the "Intelia" series at the Romanian factory of Orastie. And again: The quick restoration of the operational viability of the Gaggio Montano plant is the necessary condition so that this measure does not become definitive. I would remind this House that for about two months (forty-nine days to be precise), in the midst of the cold, the snow and the rain, the workers of Saeco have been fighting to defend their survival. There are 243 heads requested by the multinational; 243 redundancies out of about 550 total workers. The workers are compact. There is a whole social fabric to be defended, since Saeco has been working for years for whole families, which in the valley would have no other alternative. They are attached with their teeth to their claim of dignity and the right to work. The property is obviously interested in mere calculations of profit (and I add from their warm armchairs), since it makes production in Romania, which it should not and could not have done, for commitments made previously. The property tries to bypass the obstacle and openly blackmail the workers. As soon as they knew, the workers spontaneously started to leave their jobs and began a strike that could continue for the next few days. That of Saeco - they say - is an unheard of decision, a provocation, especially now that Minister Guidi should meet the parties next 19, to find a solution to the 243 layoffs announced. The components that Philips wants to hijack in Romania are precisely those intended for the construction of coffee machines, which should strengthen Saeco. Moving them would be the end of the plant as a whole. It is a shameful provocation, which we reject and which pushes us further to ask the Minister to act firmly and diligently. There is no discussion of a serious industrial plan, which leaves no one behind. That solidarity contracts and workers' rotation should be activated and that there should be tangible evidence that this Government does not allow multinationals to make our workers meat for slaughter. Saeco workers don't touch each other. Saeco doesn't touch. Mr President, I appeal to you to ask me to reply to my question 4-05003 to Mr Guidi and to Mr Poletti, who was presented on 17 December. I repeat: the Saeco is not touched. The 5 Star Movement is with workers and with the right to work. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u170	We will certainly ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u173	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before leaving the festivities completely behind, I would like to remind you that my territory, the Novarese, has been deeply confronted during these festive weeks with a human affair that alerts us to the resumption of our parliamentary work, activities that we carry out at the service of the needs of people and of the community. It is the story of Dominique Velati, the fifty-nine-year-old nurse who has been active in Borgomanero for many years not only as a health worker, but also as a volunteer in the care of terminal patients, who a few days before Christmas went to nearby Switzerland to face euthanasia. A story of courage, that of a woman consciously opposed to having to live a useless suffering, which with serenity decided not to suffer to the end her condition of terminal illness. That of Dominique is the first case in Italy of a small town that explains its path towards the end of life in a country where such practice is allowed. At his side, to accompany and support her, radical militants with whom Dominique has faced many battles for civil rights and the association Luca Coscioni, for years engaged in freedom of care and scientific research. Parliament is not indifferent to this issue, with the intergroup Euthanasia legale e Testamento biologico and a broad sharing of the appeal drawn up by Senator Luigi Manconi, president of the Commission extraordinary human rights, aimed at calling for the calendarization of the law of popular initiative number 1582, promoted precisely by the association Luca Coscioni, a text that proposes to regulate euthanasia and biological will, which lies in the House since 13 September 2013. Legislative proposals taken from the bill n. 1396 "Rejection of health treatments and licenity of euthanasia" presented, on March 19, 2014, by Senator Francesco Palermo and awaiting discussion since June of the same year. It is a battle of civilization because it is based on respect. A feeling that, with regard to Dominique's choice, I feel at least due. Respecting, in fact, does not automatically mean sharing, but recognising every human being's dignity and right to self-determination. Decriminalizing euthanasia does not mean legalizing a murder, but regulating it and regulating it, to accompany serenely and with appropriate medical assistance those who have made a choice about the end of their existence. The subject is complex, extremely delicate, it is true, but it is equally unjustified to relegate it to taboos and to postpone the debate which may lead to the legal recognition of a right. Let's talk about this was the wish of Dominique, and in this resumption of parliamentary activity, in the planning of the work, taking advantage of the paths already started we make that 2016 can welcome and give answers also to this further appeal on the end of life. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u176	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to raise something that we have already discussed before in the late speeches. I am referring to the companies that make up Mercatone Uno, a company with about 28 points of sale that has had an incredible decline that compromises its ability to keep its points of sale open. In my speech, Mr President, I refer to the issue linked to the point of sale in Viterbo because, before talking about the company, I would say to make a clarification and an excursus about how Viterbo, in recent years, has recorded the highest increase in unemployment that has risen by 2.6%, attesting itself to around 16%, a conjuncture that continues to attack the socio-economic fabric of Upper Lazio and that prevails in negative in comparison with other provinces of the center of this country. There are two fundamental factors which must be taken into account: employment and social inclusion; and it is here, Mr President, that the problem linked to the points of sale of Mercone Uno, as I said before, arises. Already during a hearing in front of the Senate Committee, the subject of which was the future of the 28 stores, it had emerged that these are also part of the same shop in Viterbo. The group's vicissitudes had already spoken in other interventions, but in this case a new mechanism is triggered: the idea that about ten of these points of sale, of these commercial activities could be reopened. These are news leaking through the union; about 21 people are reported for Viterbo's activity. I was saying that this is a territory already damaged by unemployment and these employees are close to the end of the integration fund. We have received this report from local politicians of "We" with Salvini and the Northern League of Viterbo. Let us therefore try to put to the attention of the Presidency the fact that, although this group may be limited in the opening of its activities, at least for that of Viterbo, special attention could be shown.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u179	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, online gambling makes more than drugs. This time it is not said by the funder of PD Buzzi, but by Michele Prestipino; this is his bitter consideration. It is an added prosecutor, who says so about an operation that has uncovered 12,000 virtual gaming tables, for a turnover of 11.5 million per day. 11 people were arrested, at the request of the Anti-Mafia District Directorate of Rome; among them, a boss of the 'ndrangheta and an entrepreneur specializing in the collection of gambling via web near the Casalesi. Well, since last year, for months, months and months, we have asked and requested a simple and fundamental measure: the total abolition of gambling advertising. We have done this together with many associations that are fighting for a better Italy, for the protection of young people and for a culture in which our children are encouraged to social, political, study, enterprise, work and not motivated to expect the future from a jackpot. The Government in words had declared this proposal favorable, but then, in the law of stability, in the face of our repeated proposals, it counterproposed an impalpable measure, which will make this fantomatic ban dependent on what will be decreed by a future act of the Government, obviously in ballot, in balance with the findings of the State-Regions Conference regarding the possibility of muzzling the mayors: a shameful compromise. From this compromise, however, it is precisely the online advertising, an expanding sector, which, more than all the others, enters into the mobile phones and computers of our boys, which we leave alone and abandoned. Compared to this, we are tired of being right and of being recognized later. Not as tired as personal labor, but because the pain we see in the country should make us all responsible. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u182	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, between Petralia Soprana, in the midst of the Madonie Mountains, and Termini Imerese hospital there is an hour and a half of ambulance. From hospital and hospital an hour and a half of curves, walking a stretch of motorway interrupted and provided that there are no fog, rain or snow. It is true, in fact, that the birth point of Petralia is located in Sicily, land of the sun, but it is equally true that that structure serves an entire mountain community that stands above 1,000 meters at sea level. It is not, therefore, so difficult to imagine the bad weather conditions that can be encountered in the winter months. I went through it with fog, which is not usual in Sicily, and I made a long stretch of road at 20 kilometers per hour. This is the fate of every single woman who decides to become a mother on the Madonies, since the Ministry did not grant the derogation to Petralia's birth point. It is a strategic birth point, if you consider that 90 minutes of minimum journey are estimated starting from Petralia, but the times are much longer if to enter labor will be a woman of Gangi or Geraci Siculo. In my opinion, it is irresponsible to let such a vast and so isolated area be discovered based only on numbers, which are not, then, so ungenerous, if you add up the 120 births, which are, yes, many less than the 500 planned, with the 300 voluntary terminations of pregnancy. That of Petralia, in fact, is one of the very few hospitals to carry out this service provided by Law No. 194 of 1978. Not to mention not only that the road is reduced to cholabrodo in that stretch of road, but also that between the two municipalities concerned, Petralia and Termini Imerese, there is no public transport connection. So our state, which guarantees the right of every citizen to health on the Constitutional Charter, decides to save by delegation of every economic burden to the citizens, without guaranteeing any service, not even the minimum of public transport. I had a meeting with the prefect of Palermo on this issue and with me there were many colleagues of the Democratic Party, who were busy and protesting their willingness to deal with it (but the government is of the Democratic Party). If we can, for a moment, put political belongings in parenthesis and look at the interest of citizens, which is primary over all others, and the interest in health, which is primary among the constitutionally guaranteed interests, then this birth point must have the derogation. The same applies to other birth points in Sicily which are in the same condition. It seems to me that the government has not posed a problem, that is that in order to secure mothers and give birth to them at a safe birth point, this must record more than 500 births per year. In the absence of safe birth points, what do mothers do according to the government? Where and how should they organize themselves for the end of pregnancy and childbirth?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u185	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, in pointing out that the damage caused by counterfeiting is harmful to Made in Italy, I would like to clarify more clearly the meaning of my speech on 15 December, during the debate on the draft law for the conversion of the decree-law on urgent measures for intervention in the territory. In the course of that intervention I had to point out that the Government should place greater commitment, attention and resources on the protection of our products, claiming that the activity currently carried out in this direction by the Finance Guard alone is insufficient, even if it is the only force really engaged in the fight against counterfeiting. This is confirmed by the fact that counterfeiting takes 18 billion euros of production from the national economic system annually. In the light of this, the Commission should be more involved in the fight against this hateful phenomenon, putting the Guard to finance under the conditions of being able to effectively combat the production and spread of counterfeit products, even with increases in staff and wage incentives. This is a battle to which one cannot escape and which, indeed, should be increasingly supported, adequately supporting the constant and tireless activity of agents daily engaged throughout the national territory. Beyond a few isolated inexpensive practices perpetrated by some black sheep, which I remember being always present almost in every family, it is the same successes daily collected by the Finance Guard that make us realize how fundamental it is to insist in the fight against counterfeiting in order to safeguard our made in. I conclude my speech by stressing that, according to the data provided by the General Command of the Guardia di Finanza, extracted from the document prepared for the Institute of Political, Economic and Social Studies (Eurispes), from 1 January to 31 October, in a period of only ten months, in the context of operations to combat the production and distribution of counterfeit or dangerous products, the seizure of 259,169,864 products was carried out against 8,815 interventions and 7,129 reported subjects. In my own Province of origin - that of Massa-Carrara - the careful work of the Finance Guard led to the seizure of 42,688 products, compared to 217 reported subjects. I am convinced that the enormity of this data is more than sufficient to ensure that at last due attention is paid to a subject so harmful to the Italian economy. Mr President, as corrected by my previous speech, I conclude by saying that the reference to those who turn a blind eye and buy products for their wives was absolutely not wanted and certainly not referred to the agents of the Finance Guard who, as I said, are doing their job well.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u186	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-559.ana.u187	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 14 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.37.
