ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 31 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided by Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 12,03 p.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u4	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on the case of Giulio Regini. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have five minutes available. I call the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the murder of Giulio Regeni has shaken our consciences and the whole country, because the life of an exemplary young Italian has been cut short, graduating at Cambridge and researcher at the American University of Cairo, for the way he was atrociously tortured and killed and for the lesson of composure and dignity that his parents gave. In today's information, the Government will give updated assessments of the matter also on the eve of important meetings that could be decisive for the developments of the investigations. To this end, I believe it is important for Parliament to make its voice heard together. As you know, Giulio Regeni disappeared on the evening of 25 January in Cairo and our ambassador, in the following days, immediately took action, having talks with the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, with the National Security Councillor of the President and with the Minister for the Interior. I myself, in those days asked my counterpart, the Egyptian Minister for Foreign Affairs, to act in all possible ways to find out the reasons for that disappearance. Unfortunately, the body of Giulio Regeni was later found on February 3rd. After speaking with her mother, Mrs Paola, who had arrived in Cairo in the meantime, I gave immediate instructions to formally request, with a verbal note, the return of the body to Italy and the Italian participation in the investigations that would begin and, at the same time, to summon immediately the Egyptian ambassador in order to express the Government's dismay and our determination in the search for truth. On the same day - we are talking about February 4 - the Egyptian President al-Sisi communicated to the President of the Council the consent of Egypt to the arrival of the Italian team, which in fact arrived in Cairo two or three days after the discovery of the body of Giulio Regeni. The government's position in talks with our counterparts in Parliament and in every place was very clear. I summarize it using the words of the President-in-Office of the Council: we will stop only when we find the truth, the true one and not the convenient one. The fact that Egypt is a key country in the region and that it is certainly an important ally of ours in the fight against terrorism has never been considered an obstacle, but if anything it must be considered an incentive to this determination to seek the truth. Similarly, when we put the issue of respect for human rights in Egypt, we do not do so to undermine the stability of that country; rather, on the contrary, we do so to consolidate that stability. After an initial information phase, the collaboration between our investigative team and the Egyptian authorities, with the passing of the weeks, proved generic and insufficient. For this reason, at the end of February, I anticipated to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Cairo a verbal note in which our ambassador then made very precise and detailed requests, about materials that are part of the investigative activity of the Egyptian authorities (five different types of material). On 2 March, following this verbal note, a 91-page file was handed over to our embassy and sent by us immediately to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome, who in the meantime had opened an investigation file. It is not for me to enter into the substance of these documents, and certainly not in the details, but the prosecutor has made it clear that this dossier was certainly lacking in general and, in particular, lacked at least two of the five chapters of material required by our verbal note, those relating to the cell traffic of Giulio Regeni's phone and those related to any videos of the Cairo subway, near which could have happened the seizure of our fellow citizen. I must say that further difficulties to this collaboration have come then from the crowding of news and versions more or less official or semi-official, denial and truth of convenience that in the last two months have circulated with too much frequency and almost always outside the investigative channels, moreover established between Italy and Egypt and between our investigative authorities: from the theory of criminal action aimed at undermining the relations between the two countries (which certainly can be a context, but it is not an investigative result), to the voices about Giulio Regeni informant of this or that intelligence. This certainly did not contribute to the efficiency of our cooperation. In mid-March, the visit of the prosecutor of the Pignatone Republic and the substitute Coloaiocco to Cairo put this collaboration back on the right tracks. In those same days, as you will remember, the Egyptian President Al-Sisi declared, in interviews with the Italian press, that he wanted to carry out the search for the truth to the full. However, ten days later, on March 24, our investigative team was summoned late in the evening to Cairo for a briefing by the Egyptian investigative authorities on the killing of a group of five criminals dedicated to robbing or kidnap foreign citizens by selling themselves as cops. In the briefing, our investigators were told that in the home of the leader of this group of criminals a bag was found containing, among other things, the passport and university cards of Giulio Regenti. This appeared as a further and even more serious attempt to accredit a truth of convenience and the Italian reaction was firm and immediate. Both the Government and the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome, with their respective channels, immediately made it clear that we would not accept this as the conclusion of the investigation. The family, as you know, reacted publicly and forcefully. In the following days several exponents of the Egyptian Government, denying in fact the theory that traced the murder of Giulio Regeni back to that group of criminals, have clarified that the investigations are still underway and of this we take note, to the point - and I want to point out - that two days ago the main Egyptian daily, "Al-Ahram" in an editorial of its director, has moved to ask the State publicly to identify and punish those responsible. This is the situation to date. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is legitimate and, indeed, it is necessary to ask whether the firmness of the reaction of the Government, the judiciary, the family and the whole of Italy will be able to reopen a channel of full cooperation; the channel, moreover, guaranteed by the same President al-Sisi. We will understand this starting from the meeting between the investigators, which is scheduled for Thursday and Friday this week and which will be attended by five judges and investigators from Egypt. What does it mean to restore a channel of full cooperation? It means, first of all, to acquire the missing documentation, the one that we know exists and that we have formally requested; it means not to accredit distorted or comfortable truths; it means to ascertain who were responsible for the probable placing under observation of Giulio Regeni in the period before his disappearance; it means to accept the idea that the investigative activity can see a more active role of the Italian investigators, obviously under the responsibility of the Egyptian investigators, as required by law. First of all, it will be the prosecutor of the Republic who will assess whether this change of course takes place. We will understand and evaluate it together in the next few days, without chasing this or that voice, this or that journalistic anticipation today. However, one thing I want to say here today, in Parliament, so that there is no doubt about it: if this change of pace is not there, the Government is ready to react by taking immediate and proportionate measures and Parliament will be informed of it in good time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard - more or less correctly, but often - in these days, around this terrible affair, the reason for the state. Let me tell you, then, once again what the state's reason imposes on us in a case like this. It requires us to defend, to the full and against everyone, the memory of Giulio Regeni, in whose barbaric murder the mother saw manifest, as he said, all the evil of the world. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Misto, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, LN-Aut, CoR and GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL).]] It is therefore for the sake of the State that we demand the truth, it is for the sake of the State that we will not accept truths manufactured in art, it is for the sake of the State that we will not resign ourselves to the oblivion of this affair and it is above all for the sake of the State that we will not allow the dignity of our country to be trampled on. [[Applause from the PD, Misto-SI-SEL and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u6	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u7	Mr President, Minister, fellow Senators, our group is an opposition, but on all occasions when our country is exposed to international relations, we like it and we would like to continue not to be and not feel in opposition. In this dramatic affair, I believe that we can acknowledge not only this morning, but already since those terrible days between 25 January and 3 February last, our Government and you, Mr Minister, that you have behaved with great firmness and dignity. As you wished this morning, we can also hope to be on the eve - I think between Thursday and Saturday - of developments that may prove decisive for the investigation. If so, it would mean that that line you interpreted to establish immediately Italian-Egyptian investigative channels was a fair, firm and dignified way, which gave its results, regardless of the incompleteness of the documentation, the imaginative accreditation of occasional versions and the pursuit of this or that journalistic anticipation. We hope so. We have only reason for esteem for behaviour - you also mentioned this morning, Minister - both Dr. Pignatone, and your deputy, Dr. Colaiocco. Frankly we are intrigued and much less passionate about the debate in some magistrates or former magistrates looking for glory. There is one frankly bleak one, and I am thinking of this morning's debate between the prosecutor Spataro of Turin and Dr. Ingroia, on what is the responsibility of the judiciary in international relations. Our reasons for loyalty to the democratic state mean that diplomatic representations abroad - and we have nothing but to express esteem for the behaviour of our ambassador in Cairo - are certainly representatives of government, but also of national status. So, this broken-down debate started this morning in a newspaper by Spataro and Ingroia, we are not at all passionate about it. We look forward with the same confidence to the meeting planned for the weekend, hoping that from it can greet the finding, if ever lost, of a relationship of full collaboration. Otherwise, we shall return to what you, Minister, have called immediate and proportionate measures this morning. We do not want to know, nor do we want to indicate more, as it would be premature. Mr Gentiloni, with your speech this morning we share a sense of great respect and affection for the memory of our fellow citizen. We know that Egypt is not a reliable country and how many and how disturbing are the precedents of torture practice in this country; however, we do not intend to exploit or use the memory of Giulio Regeni to move with him, as an instrument, the trial to the efforts of general al-Sisi to make his country recover calm, composure and tranquility. It is important to tie the calm and composure of relations between Italy and Egypt to the non-occurrence of new cases of torture, so frequent in Egypt in the past, so accredited by the genius of the so-called Muslim Brotherhood that today - they do - instrumentally use the martyred memory of Giulio Regeni and the pain of his family members for an internal political dispute with General Al-Sisi. That is why we have listened with great respect and we stick to your words this morning. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u8	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u9	Mr Minister, honestly, we must tell you that there is always a little disappointment when we listen to you in this House, where perhaps we expect some more elements from Farnesina than we already learn from the news, from the newspapers or from the agencies. Let us first of all address our respectful and affectionate greeting to the family of Reni and to the mother, to that woman who gave us a great lesson in dignity. The mother, however, in her argument also sent a strong message, to us and to you governments in the first place: we must give answers to the country. The mother said that if there are still delays, she trusts in a strong response. You, Minister, said you will be there and we would like to understand how, when and if. We have seen a ballet of versions and the last one we learn today: the recovery of Reni's personal effects in an apartment attributed to a gang of criminals who, disguised as policemen, would be dedicated to the kidnapping of people and robberies. A version that is already in fact denied, since the autopsy shows that tortures on the tormented body of Regeni could only be the work of people experienced and trained in torture. Then there is another element: the former minister of justice al-Zend lets himself go and says that "nothing can justify lies." At this point, the reality must be brought out, which we all ask and want and which you in the Government say you want to pursue. But, Minister, let's look at the overall picture: here we have a boy who is assigned by an English university to go research in extremely sensitive areas and in a country of which everyone knows the instability. We can think of everything, but we must also consider the responsibility of that sector. We look south of our country; I suggest you look north, where, potentially, the Services can also give up sending undercover agents and even entrusting an assignment to another institution, in this case a study institute, a university, which uses young people to carry out those tasks, who run into bigger issues than them and then the epilogue we know. I believe that we must seek responsibilities not only in the South, but also in the North of our country and the Farnesina must do what, perhaps, until now has not done. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Gambaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u10	Senator Amoruso is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the case of Giulio Regeni represents a dramatic page on which Italy, really without distinction of partisanism, demands and demands the truth. With the death of Giulio Regeni a young life has been broken and also, at the same time, an ideal: the ideal of a youth who travels, studies abroad and goes to know new cultures. On the international scene, as the often dramatic news teaches, and above all (to stay close to our home) in the Mediterranean region we live difficult and complex moments: conflict and tension are high. Young people - I really say this without any rhetoric - are our hope for a better future. For this reason, too, the tragedy of Giulio Regeni, his death at the height of torture and suffering, is a blow to the heart not only of Italy. This is demonstrated by the great and heartfelt echo that the death of Giulio Regeni had abroad. In this wave of emotion, once again, the parliamentary group to which I belong wishes to associate. We are close to the family of Giulio Regeni and, ideally, to everyone - even in Egypt - invoke a final and credible truth about what happened. More than two months have passed since that dramatic February 3rd and in the opinion of our Group the incessant request from the Italian Government to the Egyptian authorities for the Regeni family - and with it the whole country - to know what happened, goes in the right direction. We look forward to hearing about the outcome of the meeting which, on 7 and 8 April, will involve Italian investigators and Egyptian investigators, led by the assistant of the Egyptian Attorney General. At the same time, we must be very clear and stress that the version announced by the Egyptian authorities at the end of March, as the Minister has reported to us today, did not convince us, nor could he convince anyone, just as he could not give us any relief. It is not by chance that the Egyptian Government itself subsequently informed - with the Minister of the Interior - that it cannot be certain that Regeni was killed by a gang specialized in robberies to foreigners, as hypothesised instead by the investigators of Cairo. According to some observers, the Egyptian Minister's words were a first partial signal of admission from Egypt that the truth about Giulio Regeni is actually different from the one announced at first instance. We can only wait carefully for the developments of the investigation and, at the same time, strongly state that the Italian Parliament is calling for this investigation to be true, complete and without delay: in a word, credible. Here we cannot hide the political aspect, which is of the utmost importance, of the Geni affair. Italy, with realism and concreteness, was among the countries of the international community that wanted to give confidence, in a clear and express way, to the new Egyptian Government of President al-Sisi. The confidence given by Italy to this Government deserves, on the Egyptian side, to be reciprocated with answers and a commitment in the solution of the case of the Regens that are in the name of clarity, clarity and a real commitment to the search for truth. Our wish is that what was stated a few days ago by the Egyptian Minister for Foreign Affairs, who spoke of the determination and total commitment of the Egyptian Government and the security systems to continue their efforts to discover the truth, will have a concrete follow-up. We appreciate the official statements of a country, which remains a friend of Italy, like Egypt, but even more we will appreciate them when the whole truth emerges. A truth that must not be at all cost, otherwise we would have been satisfied with the first and little credible truth that emerged. In this regard, Minister, a month ago I sent you a letter on a meeting that our delegation to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly had with the President and a delegation of Egyptian MPs, who on that occasion expressed great condolences to the country and the family for the murder of Regeni and, at the same time, the determination of the Egyptian Parliament to seek "the true truth." Minister, as we were able to express a few weeks ago, again in this House, on the occasion of your information on Libya, the Middle East and North African events are a cause for concern. On that occasion we spoke widely about the instability and chaos in Libya. The situation in Egypt is certainly different, but it must certainly be seen in the wider context of an area that lives years of maximum tension. The so-called Arab Spring of Egypt, as happened in other North African realities, did not fulfill the promises of renewal that some had glimpsed. The complex Egyptian events following the fall of Mubarak in 2011 are and will also be the subject of analysis and discussion in the coming years. In fact, with the Al-Sisi Government they have laid the foundations to try to give that country, great, populous and extraordinarily strategic for the ever-lost balances of that region and in general of the Arab world, a minimum of stability, also for foreign investments. The political line taken by Italy is right and, in our opinion, must be pursued but, once again, this cannot make us desist from demanding the truth about Giulio Regeni. In an interview published a few days ago on the evening Corriere, you said, Minister, that Italy would be ready to draw the appropriate consequences if credible answers were not received from Egypt. You have repeated this in this House today. We look forward carefully, as mentioned above, to the outcome of the investigative summit of the next few days, but having clear that all Italy wants truth and justice for Giulio Regeni and that we must be very firm in letting the Egyptian counterpart understand that, precisely, Italy is really determined in the demand for truth. That is why today yours have been words of clarity that we fully share. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u13	Minister, on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE, we welcome your information by sharing its contents, supporting the line that the Government is following from the first moment and supporting the burdensome diplomatic and judicial task that will accompany the coming months. Of course, the subject is extremely sensitive because it is an integral part of international politics. The story of Giulio Regeni, just twenty-eight years old, PhD student of American University and graduate and researcher at Cambridge University is the testimony of how in some parts of the world, in neighbouring Egypt, there is obviously no space, no place, no possibility for us to assert in an unequivocal way the fundamental rights of man. Not only that, but his speech has recalled - it seems to me - two key words: the first of which is the right, to be recognized to everyone and everywhere, the other is the truth, which is directly related to the theme of justice. You have rightly pointed out, in an extremely correct and shared formulation (if you allow me to use this expression of consensus), that Egypt's role for the stability of a particularly troubled region and at the center of so many international tensions is not in doubt the support for a country strongly committed against the terrorist threat, but the heinous end of one of our compatriots, tortured and barbaricly killed, is in question. On this matter, the Government and the President of the Republic have asked even more immediately for the truth and punishment of the guilty. The circumstances of these weeks, of these past two months very quickly, have not yet shown any truth that can be plausible; only of the pseudotruths that you have rightly recalled, directly and indirectly, to be a little 'original forms of misdirection, in search of a truth that, to me, it seems, will still take a long, long time. His position, the position of the government, was immediately very firm. It seems to me, Minister Gentiloni, that the Government's commitment is no longer only that of the Italian Government, but that it can be an international warning, because the story of Giulio Regeni that struck Italy has an international dimension. The latest data reported by Amnesty International speak of 88 cases of so-called disappearances since the beginning of 2016, i.e. just four months ago, of which eight cases of confirmed death. In the last eight months other non-governmental organizations have highlighted 533 forced disappearances (so defined), which means disappearances that recall obscure events in international history. The dignity of the parents of Giulio Regeni and the firmness that the Government has taken on these days will find full support, full support and full support, of course, from Parliament. And you have rightly recalled in a passage that Parliament can express itself unequivocally. There is no difference between majority and minority, majority and opposition on these issues. Here is in question the dignity of the State, but above all the freedom of thought of young researchers, of people like Giulio Regeni, who represent a uniqueness of the quality of thought of our fellow citizens. I would like to end my brief speech, Minister, recalling an expression by Ferdinand Camon, who has written an editorial today in a newspaper that reports these words: "In the beginning this tragedy asked for "an" act of justice, now it asks for a thousand or two thousand." And he added: If you do not do justice because it is difficult, the more you postpone it, the harder it becomes to postpone it again. Until it becomes impossible. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE ePD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u14	He is registered to speak Senator Mario Ferrara. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u15	Mr President, the case takes on a dual form and configuration: one on the national and one on the international scene, even if the configuration of the international scenario somewhat overlaps with the national scenario, even if with a whole other relevance. On the international scene, the tragedy of Giulio Regeni is the attention that the international world has towards the path of democratic maturity of Egypt, which should be one of the countries that should guarantee the development of that area. Therefore, the fact that there is no respect for certain guarantees in that area can only generate great concern and considerable attention, so much so that this is testified by the interest of the great powers on the particular case. On the national scene this element overlaps with the other, more particular, namely the fact that it is a fellow countryman, therefore a tragedy for a fellow citizen and for a person who, on such an occasion, we end up hearing much more than just an Italian like us: he ends up being brother, son of all mothers, and precisely with this consideration we should all be much more careful to treat the case with greater caution. What do you want to bring back to the country, when in a space as important as that of the Senate you invite the mother of Giulio Regeni giving the press conference that attention that necessarily affects the work of the Government? A work that up to now has been of enormous prudence and that instead has to be measured with that Italian habit of making such an important speech a topic almost as a bar or club on Sunday, ending to talk about the case of Giulio Regeni with a contradiction and attributing a remarkable relevance to the dark sides, forgetting that our is a country that compared to others in many decades has failed to make clarity on facts that instead would have had the duty to clarify. A country, ours, which is still mentioned today - the massacre of Ustica, of Piazza Fontana, of Brescia, of excellent murders - without being able to have a clarification or better news. On the other hand, we reward the obligation of another country, which does not have our own maturity and institutional compactness, to clarify itself. Here, it is necessary to note this contradiction, and to note it must help the Government not to be conditioned by this all-Italian immaturity and to do what it is doing for the most part, namely to be attentive to the reasons of Italy, but even more to the reasons of the individual whatever it is (Italian, English, Syrian, American) so that nowhere in the world can happen what happened in Cairo. In this sense, I believe that the government is doing its part, and even more so, it is doing it quite well.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u16	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u17	Mr Minister, I believe that today it is really necessary to say in an ultimate manner and with the utmost clarity that Italy has reached the extreme limit of patience. We have lost track of the lies, the endless versions of convenience, the gangrened attempts at misdirection that try to hide what cannot be hidden, and that I believe is really obvious to everyone, not only in this House but throughout the country. Giulio Regeni, a 28-year-old boy who intertwined a brilliant commitment of scholar with civil and democratic passion, was brutally tortured and killed with the direct involvement of Egyptian security equipment or part of them. The perpetrators of this crime must be identified and punished. So far, the Egyptian Government has made every effort not to achieve this goal, but to prevent it. Each of the lies that have been told in recent months - and then recanted only to say a new one - is an insult to the memory of Giulio Regeni and his parents, who have had the dignity and the strength to be here with us precisely at the important press conference organized by the Human Rights Commission. Ultimately, an offense to the dignity of the Italian people and even to its democratic institutions. Even if the meeting between the Egyptian envoys and the prosecutor Pignatone will end with nothing in fact will become - we believe - inevitable a drastic initiative of the Italian Government, which would have had to act with more determination in the face of the obvious and obvious lack of collaboration, and indeed of the methodical sabotage by the Egyptian authorities. This is really the last deadline for us. We all know why this has not been done so far and what considerations suggest avoiding a diplomatic conflict. Nor do we want to underestimate trade with Egypt, for example, or even the possibility of exploiting the gas field discovered by the ENI off Zohr, which has an obvious strategic value, nor do we want, of course, to forget the role that Egypt can play in facing the growing Islamic fundamentalism, but there are times when a country is called to choose between the defence of the principles it proclaims inviolable and the calculations of the realpolitik. And it is from this choice that its identity, its dignity and, in the long run, its international credibility depend. This is true not only for the case that touches us closely by Giulio Regeni. Among the many lies that we have had to listen to in recent months, the one pronounced a few days ago by the Egyptian Minister for Foreign Affairs is truly dramatic: the killing of Regeni, he said, is an isolated act. That's not true; that's not true. In the last eight months, 533 people have been kidnapped by the Egyptian Security Services. 369 of those people are no longer known. Let's call them by their name: I am desaparecido, victims of a regime not different from the criminal ones of Videla in Argentina or Pinochet in Chile. To have supported those regimes in the name of the realpolitik was for many Western powers one of the most shameful chapters of the Cold War and it was also a strategic mistake for which the West continues to pay very hard prices. The same tragic mistake cannot be made today in the name of the Daesh war or the refugee emergency. The enemy of one's enemy cannot always be a friend. We cannot close our eyes to the continuous violations of human rights which, moreover, all of us proclaim sacred in words. We really have every reason to believe that Giulio Regeni was tortured and killed precisely because he investigated and studied those violations of human, social and political rights that are on the agenda in the Egypt of al-Sisi. To fight those violations without being distracted by real considerations, but much smaller cabotage is what we all owe to his memory, to the democratic dignity of Italy and, finally, to ourselves. Truth and justice for Giulio Regeni! [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u18	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u19	Mr President, of course I have listened, as everyone has done in recent days, to the words of the Head of State and the President of the Council and, this morning, to the words of our Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think that if we could have given up this debate, indeed in the words of the Minister for Foreign Affairs we could have found the whole of Parliament, because he has expressed balanced and clear words that have reassured the Senate that we are not a joke country and we will not accept, in this affair, the many lies and truths of convenience that have tried to lead us in these dramatic weeks. I must say, however, ladies and gentlemen, that we must appreciate the Minister for Foreign Affairs because he is moving in the light of his own responsibilities. At this moment we are talking about a dramatic story that concerns a wonderful Italian family - parents, sister and Giulio - and what they are in the image of Italians and in ours, that small country that, full of dignity, has remembered Giulio, and an international community of university students who is behind the efforts of an exemplary researcher like many of our children who are around the world. Good. However, the measure and firmness of our Minister for Foreign Affairs are more valuable, ladies and gentlemen, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs knows what is behind this affair, that is, he knows the picture that a politician cannot pretend not to see or forget. Senator De Cristofaro, I know your pathos. I know how authentic and sincere he is. In recent days I have found myself from Tunisia talking about Giulio Regeni at "Al Jazeera" and in the middle of the transmission to which I participated I have sincerely understood that from it there was not only the right indignation, which I shared, but a much different and more consistent political maneuver, aimed at having in sight Egypt [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio]] There are countries in the Gulf that work at this moment probably not having the concern that we have (true, from the first to the last in this Assembly) of Giulio Regeni, but different concerns, coinciding with the interests that move between the Gulf and the Mediterranean and that are also found in the Libyan affair, in which, moreover, I do not convince the Egyptian attitude. Mr. Haftar must recognize the UN Government as soon as possible and we cannot believe the joke that Haftar is fighting against the UN government if he does not have something substantial behind him that keeps him standing (I open and close the parenthesis). Let us be careful in this matter not to move away from a very rigorous and consistent position that does not discount Egypt, that does not accept truths of convenience and that is also willing to do what the Minister of Foreign Affairs said at the end of his speech. We have all listened to him: he said that in order to defend the memory of Giulio Regeni the Government is ready to take proportionate and adequate measures if there is no collaboration. These words are enough for me; they are enough for me sincerely because I understand that never, as in this case, is Parliament in tune with the Government and that the Government does not agree to be mocked. To date we have considered that our privileged partnership with Egypt was not a problem, but was the key to the solution and we want to continue to think this. But with our Egyptian friends we must be very clear and put the cards on the table, because if we have considered this so far probably they have thought something different, because we have been given too many lies, in a repeated and systematic way, so as not to make us think badly, starting from the reconstructions in the moment immediately following the finding of the body of Julius, until the last, the mysterious finding of the documents of Julius Regens in a circumstance that, moreover, is the proven proof of how within the regime there are responsibilities. That's the thing. The premises I have made are fundamental, because we do not lose sight of the general context, but having a clear awareness: unfortunately in this dramatic affair there is a trademark, there are battles and struggles of power within the Egyptian system that must come to light and that al-Sisi must bring to light. It is not only the decoration of a nation like Italy, but it is also that minimal credibility (I do not say that credibility, but, I repeat, that minimal credibility) that Egypt must gain on the ground. In fact, for us the most terrible truth that may have been unveiled, the most terrible for this boy and his family, is preferable to lies. We must be prepared to accept even the most dramatic of the verdicts that have a non-trivial requirement, that of being true, of being truth, because this is what the Italian Government, our Parliament and our people want in an affair that calls into question national decorum. So the reason of state, as far as we are concerned, in this case is not in conflict with the search for truth. The reason for the state leads us to see - yes, but it is another unmistakable page - that Egypt is at a fundamental junction, that it is a decisive partner for a minimum of stability in the Mediterranean and that we must work, precisely with the authority that the Government is demonstrating, to stabilize this martyred area of the Mediterranean and North Africa. Finally, I would like to thank Ambassador Massari, who operates in Egypt and who is the demonstration of how Italian diplomats, in the vast majority, are people who serve their country with loyalty, decorum and intelligence. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u21	Mr President, unfortunately, I have to question what has been said this morning in this House: we have heard words that leave us genuinely disappointed. Dear President Casini, that day the parents of Giulio Regenti asked us things: they asked us mainly to do our job. Doing our job means, for us too, telling and telling the country the truth. So I also respond to someone who attacked us and I would like to point out that Mr Gentiloni is here in this House. Your hands right now - and when I say "your" I mean the government and the majority, the PD in particular - are dirty and are colored red and black. One hand is black because it is oily, the other red because it is bloody. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] Borioli (PD). Look at your hands! COCIANCICH (PD). Shame on you! LUCIDES (M5S). We are here, but our colleagues are on the ground and are fighting a conflict. This conflict is a conflict of interest in your battle, which you will lose. [[Repeated comments from Senators Cociancich and Borioli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u22	Let's talk, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u23	LUCIDES (M5S). What I can tell you is that your government is an accomplice and I'll explain why. This is the list of international treaties that our Government has signed in the field of judicial assistance. We have only done so with Algeria, Lebanon, Morocco and Tunisia; if we had done so with Egypt, now the prosecutor Pignatone could have his hands more freely. But you don't! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Manconi (PD). Jackal! CIRINNA' (PD). Call him back, Mr. President. Mr Manconi (PD). Where are the 5 Star Movement senators? On vacation? On vacation? CARDINALI (PD). They're away on vacation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me complete the surgery, please. LUCIDES (M5S). Why, instead of telling us these lies, do you not explain to us why we do not make a good resolution, as the European Parliament has already done and as we have already done in the House? Cociancich, Cyrinna, Fabbri: be ashamed! We're on the ground fighting! [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]] COCIANCICH (PD). But how dare you? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, don't provoke colleagues. LUCIDES (M5S). They're provoking. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u24	Quiet, I said don't provoke colleagues and you don't react to provocations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u25	COCIANCICH (PD). He insulted me! LUCIDES (M5S). I would like to stress the fact that, behind this issue (this is why I spoke of red and black hands), the European Parliament resolution calls for one very simple thing: the suspension of the supply of arms to Egypt, for a very simple reason. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Since 2015, there have been 1,176 confirmed cases of torture and 500 prisoners have died in Egyptian prisons. This is the government with which you do business, for a total of 5 billion euros a year, and that is why you are complicit! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Is there another issue that you have not addressed and which neither Minister Gentiloni nor President Casini have spoken about: the annual report on arms import-export, which the Government should present to Parliament every year? There's no news this year either. This is the information you have to give us, these are the truths behind which there is also the case of Regens! Do we want to talk about Egypt? This is why you are totally inefficient, because Egypt is our trading partner. We have business with over a hundred Egyptian companies, so the reasons are exclusively commercial: not only ENI oil and gas (850 million cubic meters for the next 20 years), but we also have banks. Banca Intesa has purchased Bank of Alexandria for 1.6 billion euros. These are the things you have to tell us; these are the bases for telling the truth to the Italians and to that family! [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] For these reasons, Minister, the 5 Star Movement considers its information to be unsatisfactory. It is for this reason that we asked not just for information, but for communications. In that case, we could have tabled resolutions and put a vote in black and white by this House. His information does not satisfy us; your hands are full of blood and oil. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Ours are white. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Cardinal Senators and Cirinna]] We're in Basilicata, Senator Cirinna! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u26	Senator Lucidi, you finished your speech. Senator Bottici, intervene. Do not react to provocations. Quiet. He is enlisted to speak Senator Romani Paolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u27	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is a sad page of our parliamentary life: we are talking about an innocent Italian boy, who died under dark circumstances, on whom Italy as a whole and probably not only Italy demand and demand clarity. I believe that clarity about what has happened - which is not at all obvious - is first of all the interest of the Egyptian Government itself, which - I would like to remind you - is a friend of Italy and the West. A government that is carrying out an essential task in the fight against Islamic fundamentalism and that is why it is misguided by many of the friends, sidewalkers and supporters, more or less occult, of Daesh, i.e. ISIS. Egypt - let us not forget - had fallen into the hands of the Muslim Brotherhood after the fall of Mubarak. I just want to recall in this Assembly, as a witness, that the motto of the organization of the Muslim Brotherhood reads: God is our goal. The prophet is our leader. The Koran is our law. Jihad is our way. To die in God's way is our supreme hope. The challenges of freedom in Tahrir Square, which had so excited the Westerners, had soon transformed (by way of completely democratic, to tell the truth) into a theocratic regime, that of President Morsi, who went every day more tightening his jerseys; a regime that was shifting the political and moral weight of Egypt from the enemies of the West and freedom. It is a sad, but frequent practice in the Islamic world that the military are the guarantors of the secularity of the State against Islamic clericalism. It happened for a long time in Turkey, it happened in a past not too far away in Algeria and it happens today in Egypt. We are well aware that the Al-Sisi Government does not respect democratic rules as we do in the West. We also know that it is the best possible model of government today, in the historical conditions given, in Egypt. A full democracy, as we understand it, is a process to be carried out over time, not a reality to be dogmatically imposed on a country at war. This is the context in which I wanted to include the murder of Giulio Regeni. Today we listened to the Minister. Minister, you have not given us much news: most of the information we have heard from you has been widely read in the newspapers these days. He spoke of a more active role of Italian investigators, of a possible change of gear; he said that we do not pursue this or that journalistic voice; he also said that if the change of gear will not take adequate and proportional measures, without, however, specifying what will be these appropriate and proportional measures. He also specified, at the conclusion of his communication today, that the reason of state, in this case - and perhaps not only in this - requires only to know the truth, that is, what actually happened to Giulio Regenti. I must say that the only news we have learned (but this is also present in the newspapers) is that the Egyptian investigators, instead of coming tomorrow, as you may have said before, will arrive on April 7 in our country. So, what happened to Giulio Regeni we probably couldn't know today. But we haven't even figured out what tools we can learn the truth with. You do not know the answer, Minister, we do not know you and you do not know Parliament. It could have been an act of overzealousness of some officials; it could be a mistake in person; it could be a provocation of some branch of the State to the detriment of the same Government of al-Sisi. However, we have the right to know and the duty to ask and Egypt, even if a friendly country, must answer us. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that Egypt and Italy are at the center of a global challenge that concerns us directly for our geographical location, our historical vocation and the symbolic role of Rome as the seat of the classical tradition on which the very concept of the West is based and, of course, as the center of Christendom. It is a challenge in which it is essential to have clear who our friends are and what our enemies are and in which - of course - it is right to ask our friends to help us and understand what really happened to a fellow countryman and to bring to justice the person responsible for an even more horrible crime because it is meaningless and logical. We can ask and get it if we move from propaganda to politics, diplomacy and judicial cooperation. I hope that, from now on, the Renzi Government will move in this direction. So far, as in many other subjects, we have only seen announcements, the more roboating the more empty content. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We cannot joke with the life and safety of Italians: the Regeni family does not deserve it, our compatriots in Italy and abroad do not deserve it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u29	Mr President, Minister, we thank you for your information, which we appreciate and support for balance and determination. We are very sorry to have listened to Senator Lucidi's raving words, which are very unclear. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , while almost all his colleagues in the Group have deserted the Chamber after asking... SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm in Basilicata! Write it down! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, you don't have the floor. SANTANGELO (M5S). He provokes! [[Senator Lucidi's comments. Protests from the PD Group.]] Now let me do the talking! [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u30	You don't create accidents. I'm begging the quaestors to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u31	SANTANGELO (M5S). He can't talk! He provokes! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, please sit down. SANTANGELO (M5S). He provokes! Our colleagues are in Basilicata! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Martini. [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi.]] Senator Montevecchi, please. [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]] Senator Santangelo, criticism is allowed. It's not provocation. You're not allowed to do what you're doing. I'll call you back to order. [[Protests of Senator Santangelo]] I'll call you back to order for the second time. Allow Senator Martini to intervene. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's not criticism, it's provocation! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Martini. Martini (PD). As I said, they deserted the Chamber... LUCIDI (M5S). We have not deserted the House! [[Comments by Senators Fornaro and Mirabelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u32	Senator Lucidi, I'm calling you back to order. You have been able to do your speech, and you have now allowed Senator Martini's intervention to take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u33	SANTANGELO (M5S). Listen to them! Aren't they provocations? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Again, Senator Santangelo? I called her back to order. Let's record the call to order. Please, Senator Martini.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u34	The Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party strongly support the Government's will to shed light on the dramatic killing of Giulio Regeni and demand that all obstacles to the attainment of the truth be removed, obtaining from the Egyptian authorities the necessary collaboration without omission and reluctance. The Minister spoke frankly today of the many shortcomings and contradictions in the positions held so far by Egypt. For this reason, it is now essential that the truth emerges, all and complete, making available all the papers and elements of the investigation. We owe it to the memory of Giulio Regeni, to his figure of intelligent and passionate researcher, to his passion for study and knowledge. We owe it to the family of Julius, to his heartfelt appeal for oblivion never to fall on this dark and tragic story. I would like here to thank the action of the Commission on Human Rights and President Manconi, who gave the right framework and emphasis due to the words of the Regeni family. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini]] so that Italy does not forget a generous and committed son of hers and obtain the truth. Finally, we owe it to our country and international public opinion, starting with the Egyptian one. Many commentators and witnesses of Egypt today tell us that the violent death of Giulio Regeni is not an isolated case in that country, that the signs of a wide and uncontrolled use of forms of intimidation, violence and torture are many and worrying. Egypt plays a strategic role as a zipper in the Mediterranean and the Middle East, and it is very important that a real message of openness, cooperation and efficiency be immediately received from its authorities. We expect strong, credible and decisive news from the next meeting between Egyptian and Italian magistrates. It is now the time for rigorous investigations, conducted with open and transparent collaboration, turning off attempts at detouring or water-torbing in the bud. Egypt is an important ally for Italy in the fight against fundamentalism and in its efforts to stabilise peace and security throughout the region. This relationship of friendship allows a frank and direct interview. We will not accept accommodating versions or hiding places of truth. Precisely because we are neighboring countries and friends, the future of our relations, for which the solution of the case is a real and direct test. We will never turn to the dilemma of human rights or political-commercial relations. These two aspects cannot be separated in today's world, nor can it be all the more possible to make the protection of human rights subject to the requirements of economic and industrial relations. The two things keep together. The strengthening of democracy and fundamental freedoms, the protection of the person and his inalienable rights are values that qualify civilization, reliability and the degree of security of a country and guarantee its status as a serious and credible industrial and commercial partner, which does not happen otherwise. Conversely, the most virtuous and effective programmes of economic, social and cultural cooperation and cooperation help to consolidate a new democratic and civil climate in these societies and give hope to young people, women and civil society. Egypt - we repeat - is a crucial country in a terribly complex and delicate area. The nodes of Libya, Israel and Palestine, of Syria are there to remind us. But a role of balanced and active regional power against fundamentalism is fully carried out if it is shown to work to ensure that democracy, justice and essential human rights are guaranteed and are part of a solid and secure cultural and institutional heritage. The Government, therefore, takes all necessary initiatives, develops all forms of moral, diplomatic and institutional pressure. The Commission considers the right steps to be taken, but no political and relational measures are excluded in order to achieve the objective. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u35	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, whom I thank for being available. I suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.17 p.m. and resumed at 16.30 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u38	CATALFO (M5S). Madam President, the 5 Star Movement Group calls for the Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups to be convened immediately for the events that have taken place, involving the Government and former Minister Guidi. The inquiry by the judiciary in Potenza reveals the work... president. Excuse me, President Catalfo, you make this request on the order of business, but on the substance... CATALFO (M5S). Let me finish, because I have to motivate the request. If you do not give me the reasons for this, Madam President... Since he had already motivated it... CATALFO (M5S). I'm not done yet. If you give me space and opportunity, I can motivate my request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go ahead, Senator Catalfo. CATALFO (M5S). The inquiry by the judiciary in Potenza reveals the work of a business committee, guarantor of the interests of oil companies, in particular Total, as can be seen from the intercepts of companies related to former Minister Guidi. The amendment, which was incorporated into the Stability Act and then included in the maxi amendment tabled... [[Brusio]] Madam President, we cannot make a statement in this House!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u39	Senator, continue. Unfortunately, these are the conditions for the resumption of work, since the senators are moving to their place. Please continue, also because I gave you the floor at the beginning of the sitting and my fellow senators are taking their seats. Colleagues, try to be silent and allow the senator to carry out her intervention in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u40	I understand that this Assembly is distracted: moreover, the 5 Star Movement denounced, in this Chamber, on 18 December 2014, through a speech by Senator Cioffi, the inclusion of the norm in the maxi amendment submitted by the Government to the law of stability, on which the question of trust was then placed, and the interests that this Government was facilitating, with Total. Perhaps this House did not want to see what was going on. This is precisely what the 5 Star Movement, given the involvement of former Minister Guidi, Mr Boschi (cited in the interceptions, in which it is said that there is an agreement at governmental level), the various government undersecretaries (i.e., in addition to the Minister of Economic Development Guidi, the Undersecretary pro tempore allo sviluppo economico, Simona Vicari and the State Secretary for Health, De Filippo) and the Chief of Staff of the Navy, Admiral Giuseppe De Giorgi. These are all the people involved in the investigation: all the people who have to explain to the Italian citizens and to this Assembly and, above all, all the people who are part of this Government. Therefore, the 5 Star Movement asks - not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but today - that he be granted what has been granted to the PD Group and to Senator Zanda, whenever he has stood up in this House and has demanded the convening of a Conference of Leaders. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; and asks for this in view of the very serious acts involving Government, majority and also local authorities managed by the PD. In fact, we remind this House that a former mayor of the PD was arrested during the investigation. The 5 Star Movement, for all these facts, and for the clear responsibility of the Government, and also the majority (which allowed that amendment to enter the law of stability despite the complaints of the 5 Star Movement), calls for a Conference of the Leaders to be convened immediately, with due respect for the Italians and for a parliamentary group representing Italian citizens in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u41	Your request will be returned immediately to the President of the Senate who will adopt your determinations in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u43	If it is to intervene for the same reason as Senator Catalfo, the Presidency's response can only be the same.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u44	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, my speech may also be about the same subject, but the Lega Nord Group has at least the same dignity as the others in order to express a position. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] . PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. Absolutely, Senator Candiani. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I do not know if you are aware of this, but, as it turns out in the news, a Minister of the Republic had to resign the other day, as he ended up under investigation with very serious accusations, which cast a shadow of extremely serious discredit on the entire Commission. We then watched an indecorous show by President Renzi, who even changed RAI 3's schedule to go on television and try to justify before the country how morally injustifiable it is in any other country that can be said to be democratic: that is, that there is a business committee in the government of the country. A business committee chaired by an unelected person! That is what is happening. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We would have liked to see President Renzi here today to answer for the accusations that the judiciary is making to his Government and for the murky positions of Minister Boschi. I would remind you, Madam President, that you were present like us that night, that, when the state budget was voted and when the budget was voted, President Renzi held a Council of Ministers right here. A Council of Ministers in the presence of Minister Boschi and Minister Giannini, in order to amend the Note of variation. Once again here, in this Senate, what acts have been carried out? The real question is whether crimes have been committed. We want clarity, but we already have clarity: the government of the country deserves much more than that. The request, therefore, is for a Conference of the Leaders to be immediately scheduled for a motion of no confidence to be brought to justice before the citizens and not before the political secretariat of the PD! Because here we must respond to the citizens and not to their directors, who are punctually humiliated. A Conference of the Leaders should be convened and the debate on a motion of mistrust to be held immediately on the agenda, to which the Government must respond. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u47	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, on the same day as Thursday, we, as the Italian Left, wrote to the President of the Senate, because we found it absolutely necessary to include a debate in our agenda immediately. We asked President Renzi to come to the Chamber immediately. Madam President, it is not possible to think that this House cannot have a debate on the substance of what has happened and to think of closing the whole matter with the resignation of Mr Guidi. The picture that has emerged, and is continuing to emerge, is the very worrying picture of a mix of private interests claimed almost as a general interest. We are also filing the request for a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the matter, because it is clear to everyone that the conflict of interest is enormous and that this Government and this majority have never wanted to intervene with a serious law on conflict of interest. When he was in opposition, Renzi repeatedly accused, even his own party, of not pursuing the objective of a serious law on conflict of interest, but now this element has completely disappeared. It is in everyone's eyes that the issue is enormous and deserves not only a discussion, but also a thorough discussion. All the more so since things happened during a legislative procedure within the Senate, during the law of stability, after the House in the unblocking Italy that amendment had even been declared inadmissible. I believe that it is also necessary to deepen the local system which, as the survey shows, has been fueled over all these years. In fact, we expected, after the request we had made, that the President of the Senate should convene a meeting of the Leaders, which we absolutely believe is a duty, because that is the least that a Parliamentary Assembly can ask for, that is, to be able to discuss and place on the agenda motions of distrust. One cannot think of being able to settle the matter once again with a brazen attitude or accusing a conspiracy of strong powers. At least change the cliché. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]] We'd like to know what powerful powers you're talking about. Maybe the judiciary? Perhaps we do not realize that citizens are well aware of how strong, even foreign, powers (because we are talking about interests such as those of Total and Shell, which are certainly not national interests), have influenced and continue to influence fundamental choices for our country. So today we fully understand the fossil frenzy of this government, and I think it's time to have a discussion, not just to do it but to take responsibility. I would therefore like to repeat the request that the Group leader be convened and I believe that it will be appropriate - and I would also appeal to the other opposition parliamentary groups - to press for the creation of a committee of parliamentary inquiry into all these matters. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u50	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I shall be brief: I believe that it is important for what has happened and for what we read in the newspapers that the events that led to the resignation of Mr Guidi can also be debated in this House. The motion of censure is a typically parliamentary instrument to ensure that this can happen and so we also call for the convening of the Conference of Leaders, so that the motions presented - I think they will be more than one - can be scheduled and deliberated, in such a way that, above all, Parliament, and the Senate in particular, can be put in a position to deepen an issue that I think concerns all Italian citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u53	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, it was inevitable that at the opening of this House's work this week the politically prevailing theme could be this. So I, with the same seriousness that distinguished my colleagues who referred to the obligation to respond to Parliament and the obligation that Parliament has to deal with the most important events, as well as those related to the ordinary work carried out on the conversion of laws, agree with the request that a Conference of Leaders should establish and decide how to proceed. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u56	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, it will be stronger than me, but I can't - perhaps I will say it on my own behalf - change my mind, depending on whether it is a majority or an opposition. A few months ago I defended Mr Azzollini when there was a request for arrest for an activity that he had carried out as President of the Commission. The judiciary objected that some of the behaviors on which Parliament had expressed itself were punishable; it seemed to me to be something - even if the PD colleagues in the Commission had voted for the arrest - that was insane. Today I hear colleagues in and out of this House saying that if the Chief of Staff of the Navy speaks to the Minister or urges the approval of a naval law to remodel or redo our fleet this would be a traffic of illicit influences. I then read that Minister Pinotti would be involved in the story because, being elected in Liguria, and being there in Liguria La Spezia where is located part of the fleet, here that would trigger the crime. I would like to point out to my fellow Members of the majority and opposition that we have been subjected to as a centre-right infamous initiatives by prosecutors to delegitimize politics. Now, as happens to sorcerer apprentices, those who have wanted crazy rules like trafficking in illicit influences begin to understand what it means when incredible dusts get up. Therefore, in this House it is not a matter of giving a judgment on the work of the Government. You know my position regarding the scandal of international adoptions (a commission that has been reset and destroyed); it is the same problem as stepchild adoption, drugs with the reset Department and the Department for Family Policies reset in turn. There are countless reasons to vote for this Government's distrust, but I am appealing to all colleagues to deepen them, beyond the dust, with regard to what they are accessing. We can in fact be absolutely in favour - as I am - of an authorization to proceed to the extraction of oil or to the platforms at sea and to be opposed to facts of miscostume, but that must be documented in order to understand if there is corruption, if there is concussion, if there are bribes. We cannot be theorized, as has been done here - and for this reason I also ask the Heads of Groups to allow us to discuss - about this amendment proposed by the Government and endorsed by a Minister for relations with Parliament. I have been in office for five years; I have signed hundreds of amendments; there would be no more if every time I signed an amendment that the President of the Council wanted to bring to the Chamber, I had been criminally prosecuted, or the Presidents of the Commission and the Ministers had been. In a democratic country politics is also to choose, and we choose - as we know - also on the basis of inputs that come from civil society, from trade unions, from associations: it is called democratic dialectic. I do not change my mind, then, if they are majority or opposition, and I ask everyone for some thought and caution when talking about topics like this, which directly affect even the possibility of a country to be democratic. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senators Buemi and Milo. Senator Santangelo points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u57	Senator Santangelo, Senator Catalfo has already spoken for her Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u58	[[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] There's a senator for the group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u61	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, I wish to express my appreciation for Senator Giovanardi's speech: a balanced speech by a Member of Parliament who, regardless of whether he sits on the benches of the majority or the opposition, consistently expresses his thoughts. I fully understand the position of the 5 Star Movement, just as I understand the position of other forces, such as SEL, but I cannot understand the position of political forces that for years, in the last twenty years, have shouted the need to have an independent and released judiciary and a political class that could carry out their work serenely, without suffering attacks very often even instrumental by the judiciary itself. I heard the North League colleague talk about a process that would involve Minister Guidi as a suspect. I don't know about that. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, once the great Senator Mancuso said in the House of Parliament that the justice of the people is tribal justice. Let's get those who have the title and legitimacy to do the job. Let's get the judiciary to work. We, of course, can also comment on the episode: surely it was inappropriate the conduct of Minister Guidi, certainly is critical and I too have no difficulty in criticizing, from the point of view of institutional correctness, that conduct. However, from here to see the Minister already accused of criminally relevant facts seems to me an exaggeration that is not appropriate to a democratic and liberal force as can be Force Italy or the League, that with us has governed the country for many years and has shouted this same need to see the political class not receiving attacks sometimes discriticized. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, we're on the order of business. What's your request? FALANGA (AL-A). You are right, I am going to the order of business, Mr President, but if others justify their request, allow me too to motivate mine. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But he didn't make the request. FALANGA (AL-A). You give me time, I certainly didn't spend more time than the others. In any case, the request is that there be a Conference of the Leaders, which is also discussed, possibly, to put on the agenda the motions that are presented, but with the invitation addressed to all in that headquarters of the Leaders group and here in the Senate, to have a minimum and necessary sense of balance, serenity and wisdom in judging facts, men and things. [[Senator Santangelo points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u62	Senator Santangelo, I would simply like to point out this aspect: at the beginning of the sitting, the Senator Catalfo was given the floor, on the order of business, because there was no discussion, and then a Senator per Group spoke. So there was no debate. I do not want to appear persecutory towards the 5 Star Movement Group, however, we are in a situation in which a Senator per Group, at the beginning of the session and not during the discussion, when each Senator can intervene on the order of business, intervened to request the convening of the Conference of the Leaders. There is no debate on this. I would ask you, therefore, kindly to give up your speech in order not to open a debate on this matter, because if you speak on what others have said, others will want to speak on what you have said and a debate that is not appropriate opens up. The requests of my colleagues, as I have said, will all be immediately represented to the President of the Senate to adopt their own determinations as soon as possible. When we move on to the agenda, which brings the discussion of the bill conversion into law with amendments to the decree-law... SANTANGELO (M5S). President! You have to let me speak on the order of business as provided for in the Rules of Procedure! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Wait a minute, because I come to the subject on the agenda. So if you can wait a minute, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u63	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2298, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u65	You have the right to do so. About what? SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. I am speaking on the order of business and in accordance with Rule 92 of the current Rules of Procedure of the Senate. You could also give me the floor earlier, because the Rules of Procedure provide for this. I'll be very quick. I would ask you, Madam President, to give me the video shot as well as all the other senators. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't want to take that privilege away from you. SANTANGELO (M5S). No, it's not a privilege, it's a right. Allow me to express briefly what I wanted to say. Compared to what has been said - and with this I do not want to open a debate, but if the Senate wants to do so we will be happy to participate - I would add that in addition to the people who have been and are being investigated for this matter, it turns out to be investigated - and it is equally serious - also the chief of staff of the Navy, Admiral De Giorgi, who has very serious charges. I read only a few of them: association with criminals, trafficking in influence and office abuse. In this situation also falls the so-called naval law that has allocated well 5.4 billion euros for the remaking of ships and precisely this provision is among those of which the judiciary is dealing. So these arguments, regardless of developments in the judiciary's investigations, immediately require, from an ethical and moral point of view, a debate in Parliament that is open and without any kind of veto. That is why, Madam President, I would ask you to urge President Grasso to convene the Conference of Leaders immediately, as requested by almost all the groups present in Parliament, and, if necessary, rather than move forward in a hurry which is the same with which, in January 2015, Minister Guidi called the Committees of the House and Senate to give an opinion as soon as possible on this law that is being investigated today, to stop the work, wisely and with a little common sense, to confront the President of the Senato Grasso and to summon the body that in this case is the most indicated, that is, the Conference of Leaders, to see if we can discuss the motion of distrust against the Government. That's all I'm asking, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u66	The question had already been answered by the Presidency, which I confirm; I would therefore give the floor to the rapporteur, Senator Moscardelli. [[Senators Castaldi and Buemi indicate they want to intervene]] No, Senator Castaldi, the question raised on the order of business is resolved. We are at the turn of the day. Senator Buemi, if he so wishes, can speak because he belongs to a group that has not yet spoken on the subject. The other groups spoke on the issue that has already been defined. [[Senator Castaldi points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator, two senators have already spoken about the calendar issue for your group at the beginning of the sitting. Only groups that have not yet spoken can now speak on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u69	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I wanted to speak precisely to urge the Presidency to move on to the agenda because it is not acceptable for the representatives of certain parliamentary groups, based on fragmentary and uncertain reports, to turn this House into a court of law. The courts are somewhere else. Political debate is taking place here. When the Senate Presidency and the Bureau... [[Comments of the Senator Catalfo]] Shut up! Shut up! [[Protests from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u70	Talk to the Presidency, Senator Buemi, and not to other colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u71	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Learn to shut up! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u72	Talk to the presidency and not the other senators! BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I was urging her to learn to respect others. PRESIDENT. - The debate is However, I would like to thank you for the suggestion that the Presidency had already taken on board. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Thank you, but I repeat that there is a need to move forward with the agenda and the issues raised will be dealt with when the decision-makers do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u73	[[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u74	The rapporteur, Senator Moscardelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. [[Senator Castaldi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u75	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this important reform measure, which has been the subject of particular attention (and I would like to take this opportunity to thank President Marino, who, together with the Finance Committee of the House, has promoted an institutional seminar to discuss and discuss the self-form project presented by the cooperative credit banks), has aroused and arouses attention and also conflicting judgments, but it must be framed... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u76	Colleagues, you should lower the volume of your voice so that the rapporteur, Mr Moscardelli, can speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u77	Mr Moscardelli, rapporteur. The measure must be framed, I said, in a new context in which the important function of the cooperative credit banks system can be preserved if we have the courage to change and not if we stand for a blocking position or resistance to change because in this way we would harm the vital function of our real economy that carries out the cooperative credit banks system. I would like to remind myself that we are in a totally new condition: through the adoption of the rules on banking union, the context has completely changed, together with the long crisis that we have been through and from which we have just begun to get out. Banking union is a reality and this must be dealt with. It is a reality because there is an important regulatory apparatus, which has a strong impact on the whole banking system: the single supervisory mechanism, the single bank resolution mechanism, the deposit guarantee mechanism. It is an imposing regulatory apparatus, which, once put on the market, has changed its nature, because it has created the conditions to intervene on a fragility of the system of our banking system, which has been highlighted during these long years of crisis. The regulatory impact on this particular type of banks, i.e. cooperative credit banks, has been enormous and very strong. The choice by the European Union of a single, common and uniform system of rules for all types of banks naturally poses a number of problems, which cannot be solved only by subsequent adjustments. From this point of view, we must also pay attention to another very important element, which is closely related to the cooperative credit banks system: I am referring to the regulation concerning the SME supporting factor, an important result for our country, which has allowed and allows to have an absorption of the capital of the banks less expensive, compared with the financing provided to small and medium-sized enterprises. This is something that needs to be preserved and expanded; the effects have been assessed very positively by the cooperative credit banks system. This evaluation will be renewed at European level, with the European Commission's report to the European Parliament and the European Council, to be made at the beginning of 2017. The assessment of this impact has been very positive as the availability and cost of credit for small and medium-sized enterprises have greatly improved. For Italy this is a very vital issue, precisely because the system of small and medium-sized enterprises has a weight in the real economy not comparable to the rest of Europe. Furthermore, the concern raised by the cooperative credit banks system for a possible Basel 4 (although Draghi intervened on this point to reassure), which would involve a further regulatory apparatus, with compliance burdens on all administrative instruments and with the risk of being faced with more stringent mechanisms on the issue of credit delivery, creates other elements that make people think and that lead to move forward with conviction in carrying out a reform that puts our system in the conditions of preserving its original characteristics and its vitality and, at the same time, to carry out with new tools the functions that it is called to perform. These functions necessarily require, like all the other articulations of the banking system, a stronger capitalization and therefore a guarantee against the risk of the problem related to non-performing loans. The deterioration of the credits affects this sector closely and in a delicate way, which is going to give its credit mainly to small businesses, artisans and families, who are of course those who have suffered the most from the difficulties of this long crisis. This is a very virtuous reality, which has important numbers. Indeed, the cooperative credit banks system consists of 364 banks, equivalent to almost 56% of the total of banks operating in Italy, with 4,414 branches, 1,248,000 members. They are present in 101 Provinces, in 2,693 Municipalities; in 549 Municipalities are the only banking presence. They have 31,000 employees. In 2015, 85 out of €130 billion of customer financing was provided to companies. In the period of crisis, from 2010 to 2015, the financing provided by cooperative credit banks goes beyond the short term: there was, therefore, a positive characterization, compared with a reduction of around 56 billion of the rest of the banking industry. The long recession in the production system has naturally worsened the quality of the credit. Customer collection has exceeded 161 billion and the assets of cooperative credit banks are now 20 billion euros. However, this system presents problems, even higher than the average, in some respects. The profitability of the cooperative credit banks system, precisely for the type of customers that is served, has suffered greatly from the long crisis of the real economy. The low interest rates, stagnant demand, increasing the volume of impaired matches have squeezed the margins of intermediation and the same defence of employment (we talked about 31,000 employees) has naturally made costs rigid. Among the cooperative credit banks, the Bank of Italy reports 50 banks among the most fragile, therefore with the risk that there may be financial tensions for a significant number of companies (i.e. cooperative credit companies). It is the Bank of Italy itself, therefore, who emphasizes that the reform goes in the right direction and is in line with the needs of the system. The Italian banking system is still too fragmented, it still has too many banks, which represent almost the only channel of access to credit for our industrial system. It is a channel that must be strengthened, preserved and also made complementary with other channels. The reformative action of the government - I would like to remind you - has gone in the very direction of strengthening the fundamentals of the system, with a series of reforms: the reform of popular banks, the self-reform of foundations, the strengthening of the financial system, the public guarantee on senior tranches of securitisation of non-performing loans. The objective, therefore, is to support the real economy by exploiting the ECB's expansionary policy. Indeed, the contradiction lies precisely in the fact that, in the face of a huge mass of liquidity available thanks to the ECB's expansionary policy, the more stringent rules of access to credit and capitalisation of banks restrict the possibility of credit provision itself, creating a short circuit. The proposed reform plan has therefore been strengthened: both through the passage of the decree-law and through the changes made in the conversion, the fundamental objectives of the reform have been grasped. It is therefore a decree-law that already transposed the indications of the self-form project, in particular on the governance of the capital of the parent bank and on other important aspects. In view of the parliamentary process of conversion with the amendments, there are a number of elements that we can highlight, together with the salient aspects already contained in the decree. Meanwhile, banking in the form of a cooperative credit bank is only allowed through cooperative banking companies that are part of a cooperative banking group. This is the first element. The character of mutuality is preserved and strengthened: it does not fail. On the contrary, all the connotations of the mutuality of cooperative credit banks are reiterated: the operation, the prevalence, the relationship with the members, the destination of the profits and the fiscal discipline. The possibility of involvement of the members has been extended, with the increase to 100,000 euros of the capital that each member can hold and to 500 of the minimum number of members for each cooperative credit bank. The control of the parent is in the hands of the cooperative credit banks which hold the majority of the capital. There is a graduation of the powers of the parent in relation to the deservingness of the individual cooperative credit banks, in order to reaffirm the connection with the mutual purpose of the powers of the parent, which are proportionate to the riskiness of the participating banks. The minimum capital requirement of the parent company, in order to give unity and solidity to the system, is set at one billion euros. We must bear in mind that the indication of EUR 1 billion seeks to respond to two elements. Firstly, we try to aggregate and give unity to the system, forming groups that are more important and, therefore, able to withstand the new needs of the market and the new regulatory apparatus that I mentioned earlier. At the same time, in the face of a number of cooperative credit banks with a total assets of EUR 20 billion, it was not intended to exclude that more groups could be created. There is a protagonism of cooperative credit banks with the attribution to the assembly of the members of the individual banks of the power to appoint their own social bodies. The establishment of cooperative banking groups in the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano is permitted. From this point of view, while paying attention to the theme of territoriality, it was intended to preserve a general unity of system. The way-out mechanism has also been introduced, with clear limits and predictions. Cooperative credit banks that do not want to join the group will have to become joint stock companies or be wound up, leaving the indivisible reserves, which will be donated to mutual funds. Again, taxation of 20% on equity is a disincentive not to keep the system split. Another novelty is the possibility to create territorial subgroups belonging to a bank formed in the form of public limited liability companies within the cooperative banking group. The threshold of EUR 1 billion of assets, which I mentioned earlier, is therefore planned to favour an extensive, but not exclusive, aggregation. The threshold of €200 million in assets to take advantage of the way out mechanic has been subject to a series of controversy. I'm just picking up a figure. The banks that have this capital requirement are 14 and affect different areas of the country. The decree-law that we are about to convert contains other important rules, such as the stop to anatocism and, therefore, the capitalisation of interest. Here again, despite the progress of some criticisms, it is actually putting its order in the system and making it clear. A very important element concerns the extension of the public guarantee on the securitisation of suffering also to financial intermediaries. There are more flexible rules to use tax discounts in buying an auction house. Another important element, which I had left out and which I would like to stress, which was also urged by the cooperative credit banks system in relation to the forecast contained in the decree-law in question, concerns the temporary fund in support of the cooperative credit activity, which, pending the establishment of a new group, can act as a mutual-insurance instrument to consolidate the cooperative credit banks system. The sixty-day term for those who want to use the way out mechanism implies that the freeing of reserves without devolution of the heritage must be an event that cannot be improvised and that can only be used by structured subjects to be able to do so. In this context, the supervisory role of the Bank of Italy is very important. The Bank of Italy has a very strong and important role because it defines the minimum organisational requirements of the parent company and the minimum content of cohesion contracts. The MEF provides by decree a minimum threshold for participation in the parent giving the majority of the control of cooperative credit banks (BCCs). This allows, therefore, to have an instrument available for finding resources and capital on the market. The reform goes in the direction of preserving the fundamental characteristics of our important system linked to the territory, small and medium-sized enterprises, craftsmen, families and, at the same time, gives the tools to remain competitive on the market, to protect citizens, businesses and their savings. If we renounced the desire for reform and innovation of the system, we would go in the opposite direction. I believe that it is useful and, indeed, necessary to deal with a specific issue which serves to clarify what is a standard approved by the House and which concerns the aspect of bank cheques. Article 17-b of this provision, as amended to the Chamber, with an amendment to the number 3 of the first paragraph of Article 45 of Royal Decree No 1736 of 1933, laying down provisions on the bank cheque, also extends to the paper assignments the possibility, already provided for in the cheques presented in electronic form, to produce for the protest a replacement declaration of the Bank of Italy, requested by a banker who makes use of the payment systems managed by it as an alternative to the use of the notary. Article 8 (7) (b) of Decree-Law No 70 of 13 May 2011, converted with amendments to Law No 106 of 2011, contains a series of amendments to the rules on cheques, contained in the Royal Decree cited, in total aimed at allowing its circulation and payment also in electronic form. In particular, point (b) of paragraph 2 provides that the refusal of payment may be found not only by authentic act (protest or declaration of the handling of the cheque) but also by statement by the Bank of Italy as the manager of the clearing houses or the clearing and settlement activities of the transactions relating to cheques, which states that the bank cheque presented in electronic form has not been paid. The letter c) of the aforementioned paragraph 7 establishes the equivalence, to any legal effect, of the computer copies of the paper cheques with respect to the originals from which they are drawn, provided that their conformity to the original is ensured by the negotiating bank through the use of its digital signature and in compliance with the implementing provisions and technical rules established by ministerial decree. The Bank of Italy is entrusted with the task of issuing, within 12 months of the aforementioned decree, a special regulation for the discipline of technical rules and for the application of the provisions under consideration of the Ministerial Decree. Pursuant to point (f) of paragraph 7 above, all the amendments described above will enter into force fifteen days after the publication in the Official Journal of the aforementioned regulation of the Bank of Italy. The above rules would make explicit reference to the cheques presented in electronic form only and not to the paper cheques for which the equivalence is established, to any legal effect, of the computer copies with respect to the originals from which they are drawn, provided that compliance with the original is ensured by the negotiating bank through the use of its digital form. The regulation of the Bank of Italy for the discipline of the technical rules has not been issued within the period provided for by Decree-Law No 70 of 2011 and the possible issue after the entry into force of Article 17-b of the measure under consideration would entail the re-introduction of the legislation that the same article 17-b intends to exceed, thus producing an implicit repeal for the principle of the later law. Moreover, the consent to the correct interpretation of the compliant rule of Article 17-b of the measure under discussion was also expressed in the examination of the Senate of the draft competition law with the approval of the amendment that intervenes modifying the aforementioned article 8, paragraph 7, letter b), number 2 of the decree-law n. 70, converted with modifications, in law n. 106 of 2011 and replying to the provisions of the aforementioned article 17-b in order to provide for its entry into force with the publication of the regulation of the Bank of Italy; and thus avoids the aforementioned publication of the regulation bringing back to life outdated legislation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u78	We welcome the students and teachers of the State Science High School "Guglielmo Marconi" in Foggia, who are today visiting the Senate and attending our works. Welcome, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u79	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Bernini to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u80	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Moscardelli - and I do so sincerely - who, with his usual expertise, explained the terms of the measure. Apart from the skill of my colleague, this is a rather complicated illustration to be traced back to fairness and it is a fact that gives the meaning and merit of our question. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, on the subject of the misuse of the decree-law by this Government, we have had to repeat ourselves - and unfortunately I fear that we will have to repeat ourselves again - both in the first Commission, where there is a review of the pre-conditions, and in the context of the preliminary constitutionality, because these clearly unconstitutional decree-laws, which lack the requirements of extraordinary necessity and urgency, as if they were a convention and constitutional custom, continue to be peacefully pursued. Therefore, the double scrutiny of constitutionality on an unconstitutional measure, both the Commission and the Assembly, continue peacefully to promote - certainly not on our part - represents a stigma, a very strong wound for the legislative activity of this Government. I would like to say this not by chance, Madam President and colleagues: even when the contents make sense, if the container does not have it or is clearly illegitimate, it is impossible to give a sense of legitimacy to the contents themselves. Once again, I would like to thank my colleague Mr Moscardelli for trying to explain how the Government wants to solve the problem of cooperative credit banks, which I would not, however, call of burning topicality, exactly as we have not defined the topic of popular banks as a burning topicality. The common denominator of this banking year, experienced very dangerously by the Renzi Government, is unfortunately an authoritarian and dirigistic way of imposing absolute rules on the banking system, which apply - alas - especially for some territories, on which the President of the Council and some "weighty" ministers of his Government love to operate. I assure you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that neither in the explanation of this question nor in the continuation of the debate will we drop this reference, without giving you an appropriate justification. With regard to the pre-conditions of necessity and urgency and the pre-conditions of constitutionality, we are unfortunately once again facing a path of boredom. For 45 times we have said that these assumptions do not apply when organic and system reforms are being carried out, announced for twenty years, attempted and inserted in dusty drawers of the Senate of the Republic and of the Chamber of Deputies, and then being withdrawn out and boldly inserted into the vehicle of the decree-law. We have repeatedly said that this clearly, brandish and intolerable violation, as far as we are concerned, of the constitutional features provided in a relentless and unavoidable way by Article 77, which cannot be modified by conventional means or because the Premier likes the decree-law. Colleagues, with all the respect of the world for the tenant of the hill and for what happens on the highest hill, it is frankly embarrassing to think that all this is countersigned by those who have placed as the figure of his mandate the fact of limiting the improper use of the decree of urgency or the use of the decree-law on the basis of a generic, non-existent urgency in providing. Just read the title of this measure, because by now the titles themselves speak for themselves. It is almost an a la carte menu in which there are proposals of dishes absolutely heterogeneous, uneven, disorganic, extremely indigestible for these rooms and absolutely indigestible, toxic and even a bit poisonous, which are proposed by those who think they may exercise, rather than a premiership, a role of authoritative organization of the content of the measures. I'll explain. Also with regard to this decree-law in banking matters, I recall that all the decree-laws in banking matters that have passed through these classrooms have been characterized, as well as by the use of an improper and absolutely unconstitutional instrument, also by the use of trust, another equally improper and unconstitutional instrument with a view to a reform of the system and a relationship that should have been much more intense, trustworthy, collaborative and cooperative with all of us parliamentarians. The Constitutional Court repeats from a lifetime (but we do not need it, because we know it), with judgments of every dating and dating back even thirty years ago, that never an organic reform and system can be implemented with a decree-law. Colleagues, looking us in the eye and putting a hand on our conscience, let's face it: we don't need the Constitutional Court to tell us. We all know very well that, in order to amend a single text, such as the one in banking matters, we do not need the decree-laws but equally homogeneous, structured, coordinated and shared draft laws, which give the measure of a reform that is never implemented, if organic and structural, simultaneously, but through successive stages, measures and implementation procedures. What is yet another fuse of the constitutional system that makes this decree improper? Connecting Moscardelli, I greatly appreciated the attempt, almost as a gypsy with the crystal ball, to recommend the models of governance that will characterize this holding of the cooperative credit system. But how do we know what is not yet written, since a large part of this reform is entrusted to implementing measures, acts of secondary standardisation, which will have to be enacted by the Bank of Italy and the relevant ministries? We are now examining the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, but we will reiterate in the debate on the substance that these measures are absolutely incompatible with the use of the Decree-Law. How incompatible with the use of the decree-law is the use of acts of a non-regulatory nature, which neither the Constitutional Court nor the Council of State likes and which, on the other hand, the legislator likes them to death, so much so that it makes almost reckless use of them. You, colleagues in the majority, say that the European Central Bank is the main inspiration for reform. That's not true. We cannot, whenever we do something that can be unwelcome to our counterparts, say that Europe is asking us to do so. This is a veil with which we can no longer hide. Europe doesn't ask us to make vacuum-buyer group conglomerates that bring all cooperative credit banks back into their wombs on the basis of an assessment not on the merits, not on the grounds of territorial, provincial aggregation, of proximity credit delivery specifications, but only on the basis of value. A point which, moreover, would violate a number of constitutional principles such as Article 3, the principle of equality; Article 45, the mutual principle, which we all know must be non-profit-making, non-spectivative, characterized by its nature and its social aims, perverted by this scheme. I would also like to mention Article 47 on the protection of savings, and Article 53 on the progressiveness of taxation, which falls short on the basis of the imposition of a fixed tax of 20% on those who believe that they adhere to this model of alternative to vacuum holding. I will be as quick as possible, but I ask just one more minute to make a point of merit that we reserve to extrinse and explain much better in the context of the general discussion, which will be - alas - very short, because unfortunately the train of the reform as always will pass beyond the senate station, and we can give only the confidence, not discuss the substance and not change anything: it is a constant feature of our activity now. But, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, why are we once again opposed to the countries that work in Europe? France, Germany, the Netherlands, but also Canada (giving this consideration a non-European dimension), take into account their cooperative credit banks as providers of proximity credits that allow to protect the real economy and to counter economic shocks. Colleagues, once again we are going against the trend, despite us, because we do not adhere to this legislative initiative: we have not been sufficiently consulted, we do not like the method and we do not like the merit, and we are going towards an unshared and unsympathetic drift, in contrast to a Europe that we cannot use only when it suits us. For all these reasons, we ask that no further examination of this measure be made. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u81	He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u82	Madam President, once again we, as the Group of the North Legacy, are presenting a preliminary question, but not for wanting to sit here and chat or pretend to idolize the Constitution; we want to talk seriously about a problem that is afflicting this legislature. The continuous recourse to the decree-law - let us remember - has been censored several times, not only by the Constitutional Court and by the Head of State himself. However, we must remember, if we are to be legislators and not something different, that Article 70 of the Constitution entrusts the legislative function collectively to the two chambers. What we continue to see and which we are facing is a real emptying and mortification of Parliament's activities, with a concrete impossibility, even on the part of the opposition, of participation in a debate and political debate, and of exercising its function, which is that of political control. You must not think that the opposition is only annoying; the opposition was born to exercise control. And from this debate we cannot make democracy effective. We remember that from 2014 to 2016 48 decrees-laws were issued, often in the absence of a valid motivation of urgency, and this we have seen also and above all on the measures that concerned the justice, of which we do not even understand what the requirement of necessity and urgency could be, since the problems of justice afflict the courts for many years. Let us remember that, in reality, the bill of parliamentary initiative arrives at a positive port only in 1% of cases. What the doubt arises is because the use of the decree-law is constantly used, as well as trust. The justification is not regulatory, but only political. The problem that the government has - apart from the fact that it often doubts that it has the same majority, so it relies on trust - is that it uses the decree-law only to try to speed up the times and give the feeling to those poor citizens who look at us from the outside that Parliament works, that the government works, that something is being produced. On the other hand, it is not important to continue to adopt new laws when they are not decisive; when they are not of serious regulatory scope. We keep piling up legislation just to say we're working. However, it is our fellow citizens who will find themselves in a bad position to deal with; they will see their activities managed by those rules. What we do now is a mere forcing of those who should be the balances. When studying civic education it was remembered that an account was the power that the Chambers had to make the rules, that is, the legislative power, another account was the executive power: the Government had to put those rules into practice, to carry out what was said by Parliament. The opposite is happening: it is the Government that says what Parliament has to do. This is a dangerous imbalance, a risky forcing that reminds us of different times. We enter into the substance of the provision: one wonders what the need and urgency of intervening on a system such as the banking one might be, with particular reference to what we are examining in this decree-law. One wonders why this famous urgency. Let's remember that there are probably between 15 and 17 banks that could have assets of fatal criticality, and that this fatality could be exercised in the next eighteen months, out of a total of more than 350 cooperative banks present in Italy. If this Parliament had the time, it would probably have also examined other rules and planned a reform of these institutions, perhaps preserving what should be the key principles: the mutuality, solidarity and localism of these cooperative credit banks. What we fear, in fact, is that we must intervene continuously on the banking system, as has already happened, and we have had proof of that. I speak more as a Venetian than as an Italian, because in our Veneto with two large institutions we have found ourselves in dramatic situations because of the rules and behavior of the management; norms that in the end have been penalized only and exclusively savers, that is who in these banks has believed us: he really believed that that institute could guard the savings of a lifetime. We are constantly intervening in a very delicate system. We hoped that such problems could be dealt with within the time required for the discussion of a bill of parliamentary initiative, without the urgent decree. Not to mention the homogeneity of the measure itself, which affects the requirement of necessity and urgency; a non-homogeneous measure in which elements merge in a confused way, so much so that one wonders what the actual urgent issues are with respect to those that are not. Chapter II talks about guaranteeing the securitisation of suffering; Chapter III talks about excluding the taxation of contributions received by entities for which competition procedures are activated, and, in another Chapter, the single text on financial intermediation is amended. We are talking about issues that should not all be dealt with together in a decree of urgency: let us distinguish what is the necessary and urgent rule and put it into practice. The same transitional provisions on the application of the framework even provide that for the training of the banking group there is a period of 18 months and therefore the rule has an application that becomes not immediate, but deferred. When there are rules that provide for intervention with such long deadlines, one wonders where the urgency was, because urgent is something that should have immediate application. We then wonder whether the rules on free competition are being respected; especially when we see that with some provisions it is expected that the cooperative credit bank which is excluded from the banking group will be able to continue its business only through its transformation into a public limited company. This is in addition to the other questions concerning the substance of the measure, for which this is not the place to consider. It will now follow a debate in the general debate or, at least, it is hoped that there will be this debate and that we will not see it hindered by a request for confidence. However, we are faced with a measure that still presents extremely critical profiles. For all these reasons, better illustrated in the written text that we have presented as a preliminary question, we ask that the draft law in question should not be examined. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u83	He asked Senator Bottici to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u84	Madam President, for the umpteenth time we are presenting a preliminary constitutionality for a measure concerning banks. Banks and oil, green gold of banknotes and black gold of oil, are the two main interests of this government. It still burns the recapitalisation of Bankitalia, which took place with a veritable raid in the Chamber of Deputies and which saw a gift of over 7 billion euros to the banks. And the legislative decree is still at stake that would allow banks to take over the house of those who fail to pay a few installments, without going through the scrutiny of a judge. And while on Monte dei Paschi di Siena there is still no light, here is the scam of cooperative credit banks. While everyone expected a measure to safeguard the swindled savers, here is a measure that, on the one hand, secures the banks and, on the other, because of some scumbag, punishes the cooperative credit system, the only one that still maintained its function as a credit issue. It was February 19, 2014 when Beppe Grillo, sitting at the table with Renzi, told him, without using half words: You represent the banks. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Never were words more perfect and prophetic. This government is the government of banks and bankers, it is the government of the Boschi family, of the Tuscan Freemasonry and not only. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is the government of oil lobbying, insurance lobbying, big energy producers, it is the government of conflicts of interest. With Berlusconi we thought we had hit the bottom, but Renzi has dug more and more. The decree-law that we ask today not to examine presents profiles of unconstitutionality. I would just like to remind you that the judgment n. 220 of 2013 of the Constitutional Court states that the norms ordinamentali "can not be entirely conditioned by the contingency, up to the point to force the parliamentary debate on them in the narrow limits traced from the second and third paragraph of article 77" of the Constitution, "conceived by the constituent legislator for specific and punctual interventions, made necessary and improcrastinable by the emergence of extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency." The transformation by decree-law of the entire legal discipline therefore appears incompatible both on the logical and the legal level, being a radical transformation of the entire system on which a wide debate has long been opened. But someone saw us in the extraordinary case of necessity and urgency. Too bad that then some rules, that is those relating to the bank that intends to assume the role of company Capigroup, provide that this bank will have to submit to the Bank of Italy the documentation previewed from the law in view of the formation of the group for the preliminary verification within eighteen months. And that is the necessity and urgency? I really wonder who I'm talking to. In addition, the conclusion of the contract between the bank and the bank leader may intervene within 90 days. Another ninety days, another urgency: although I do not know what the urgency is. If we had tabled a draft law, we could have discussed it peacefully, each with his own opinions, but, as is now the case, this House is absolutely not considered. Then I wonder what the senators of the PD, NCD, AL-A and other majority groups are for, because they are voting for everything, so we could also avoid having Commission meetings now. Moreover, this decree-law is contrary to Articles 41, 45 and 47 of the Constitution. The best solution, the one that the banking system would need, is not that of the various brands that this Government now grants him semi-annually, if not more often, but the preparation and implementation of strict rules for the fight against the conflict of interest. I, however, have never seen a decree-law on the contrast to the conflict of interest, who knows why! And then the ministers resign, and we go further. Then, if we are to protect savings, I absolutely do not see the protection of savers in the measure before us. Why do we not have some rules, as I was telling you before, to protect savings, to prohibit the sale of damaged financial products to poor citizens, who now have a lower contractual weight than the banking groups? You only empower the banks and not the citizens to defend themselves. In this regard, I call once again for the bill on class action to be drawn up, a measure which has already been voted on in the Chamber of Deputies but which is still in the Senate. You're afraid of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not to mention the way out issue, which is a good rule. Article 17 of the Finance Act for 2001 was an authentic interpretation of how the assets of cooperatives were to be dealt with when they were dissolved or transformed: the assets were to go to state funds. What are we gonna do? We give them the opportunity to keep their assets and to pay only part of them, i.e. 20%. I wonder, however, how this 20% of the net worth is to be claimed. What is it? A penalty, a tax, a contribution? Someone will explain it to us or to the judiciary, I hope. This trick also interferes with the right to competition, because the cooperatives that are dissolved and transformed are still subject to authentic interpretation, while the BCCs are not. So there is a very small issue of competition, which we should protect. Instead, we also move on to Article 41 of the Constitution. I also wonder: can this rule in favour of BCCs be regarded as state aid or not? Should we wait for Europe to tell us something, or does the Minister reply, to calm us down? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Bottici. BOTTICS (M5S). I'll finish. I'm terrified about securitisation, too, I don't know about you. We are once again reaffirming that democracy no longer exists in this country and that Parliament no longer exists, that it is of no use and that it is a mere executor of the government's orders. This has happened and continues to happen for years, in your total indifference. Dante called it "ignavia" and put the ignavians in the hardest circle, with the harshest penalty, because he considered the ignavian the worst of sins. History will not forget this season and will not forget you, ignorant in some cases, accomplices and collusion in other cases. Have one last leap of courage, try to raise your head from that bench and read what you are voting for. Don't act like the 2015 Stability Act, which you voted for despite the lack of a piece, not to mention the so-called Total-Total amendment. Try to understand and do not be distracted by the sirens of the banks, because the police sirens will arrive for you at best. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u85	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Mazzini-Capograssi" of Sulmona, in the province of L'Aquila, who are visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u86	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u87	Madam President, while waiting for the Government, as usual, to put trust (I imagine tomorrow morning), we are here, once again, in the most total distraction of the Assembly, to ask a question for a preliminary ruling on this draft law to convert yet another decree-law. What, frankly, Madam President, must continue to tire a little 'all of us must not be the fact that we insist on presenting constitutional prejudices, because it is our duty: someone should remember that we have gone beyond what is possible and allowed by our Constitution. We are, frankly, once again forced into a practice that we no longer even want to justify. The representatives of the government are obviously conversing with banks or Basilicata and we continue to intervene on issues that are not insignificant, such as this bill of conversion of the umpteenth decree-law, which will impact on the future of our country, the economy and the interests of many savers. Moreover, the whole process of this reform of cooperative credit banks and the provisions on guarantees on the securitisation of suffering (not to mention, of course, the tax regime relating to crisis procedures, which we had heard from newspapers) saw a discussion which obviously involved experts. [[Brusio]] I'm having trouble talking. [[Recalls of the President]] I was saying that the discussion also involved experts from the world of cooperative credit. However, it did not involve Parliament, which should then have taken decisions. There were, moreover, questions and requests to the relevant ministers to report, but this did not happen. This discussion and the various self-form proposals that had been put forward are proof that it was obviously not possible to use the decree-law. The instrument of the decree-law - we insist to remember - draws its legitimacy, even constitutional, from extraordinary cases and is dedicated only to intervene in a necessary and urgent way in order to give rapid answers to situations that must be faced immediately. For this reason, the ordinary legislator, with a general rule, has provided that the decree-law must contain measures of immediate application. How is it possible to use a decree-law, instead, for a reform of the system, so not an intervention of necessity and urgency and of immediate application, but an overall reform and not of little account? The proof that this is a system reform is that it has been preceded by an extra-parliamentary discussion of self-form, with experts and technicians. When we spoke on the order of business, we referred to conflicts of interest and various problems, which had emerged in recent months from the Government. The government has a great deal of attention to the banking system and so I can understand that it wants to use the decree-law, but it is absolutely improbable. The Constitutional Court, among other things, with the judgment n. 220 of 2013, has specified that the possibility of recourse to the decree-law is absolutely excluded when it comes to carrying out an organic reform, such as that contained in the legislation to our examination. The measure, in substance, dictates a discipline for a universe of 364 banks, between those of cooperative credit and the rural coffers, which constitute (with their 4.403 branches, equal to 14.6 percent of the Italian bank branches, over 1,200,000 members, among other things increasing, and 37,000 employees) not a small reality, but an absolutely fundamental reality, as we know well, also at the territorial level and of small and medium municipalities. A reality that, in a situation that is also complex, certainly not all brilliant cases, has worked within a fabric of real economy. It has also shown, in some ways, that it has antibodies to deal with the effects of globalisation and crises even independently. Even in the discussion on the proposal of self-form made within this world, there was a clear desire to confirm and preserve, among the communities and in the territories in which they operate, in some cases even for more than a century, the role of cooperative credit banks serving, precisely, the real economies, small enterprises with a view to a cooperative spirit that has served a lot to the growth of some territories. In any case, the will to maintain intact, even in the context of a reform of governance or in a different system of allocation of resources, their role was confirmed, referring to the cooperative spirit. In this case, however, we operate in a completely different way. For this reason, it is even more serious in our view that the debate has been forced into the temporal framework for the treatment of decree-laws, as referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution. I would also add that this decree-law came to the Commission last Thursday, where, of course, all the amendments were rejected (I believe that this was done absolutely quickly and painlessly). So once again we pretend to debate and intervene on a measure on which we do not really have any say. This has been the case over and over the last two to three years, but we have now reached a level of guard that will bring to light precisely a democratic crisis and not just parliamentary competences (so much more in a situation like this). The question referred for a preliminary ruling is not limited to the absolute unconstitutionality of the use of the instrument of decree-law, since there are some passages in the measure in question absolutely contrary to constitutional principles, such as that referred to in Article 45 (1) of the Constitution, which recognizes the social function of cooperation (I do not read the entire provision). What is done with this measure instead? The principle established by Article 45 of the Constitution squeals with the provisions of Article 1, paragraph 5, of the provision, which applies to credit cooperation the obligation to participate in a rigid cohesion pact to a single banking group with powers of direction and control over the participants, as a precondition for being confirmed the authorisation by the Bank of Italy to exercise the credit as a cooperative credit bank. This is unless it proves to have capital resources of more than EUR 200 million and to be able to pay an extraordinary tax of 20%, under penalty of liquidation. It is clear, therefore, that from this point of view there is an obligation that would be configured, especially in the absence of a specific rule that allows the transformation into another type of bank without devolution of assets, as a real and obvious violation of the constitutional dictation, as well as an attack on the distinctive features of the sector. The other violations concern Article 47 of the Constitution, in the matter of popular savings. Then there is a very serious issue, because we believe that the principle of subsidiarity in the credit sector comes out strongly compromised, since in the decree-law we are considering the treatment of those cooperative credit banks that do not want to join the parent (i.e. the so-called way out) is decidedly unbalanced, leaving the choice only to those that, as I said before, have assets reserves of EUR 200 million. From this point of view, I would point out that this is a vulnus, a dangerous precedent capable of affecting other cooperative realities. Moreover, the system of reserves, as is well known, in the event of dissolution or transformation into a SpA had to be put back at the head of the State itself. In this way, the simple payment of 20% will create a clearly speculative mechanism, which betrays the spirit of cooperative and solidarity status. For all these reasons, we believe it is absolutely necessary not to proceed to the examination of this bill for obvious unconstitutionality. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u88	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u91	COLLINA (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the questions of constitutionality of a decree-law normally develops on usual subjects: the first part is essentially aimed at calling into question an unscrupulous and indiscriminate use, according to those who say it, of the decree-law; after which the issues of urgency and extraordinary necessity are dealt with in substance and then enter into disarray also on the issues of merit which, on the other hand, will be dealt with more precisely in the general discussion. It is true, Italy, compared to many themes, has the need to have certain times. We measure this in many situations, but also in Parliament. Unfortunately to date the only instrument for the government, but also for the political majority (because it is not only a question of government, which exists because there is a majority expressing a political will) to realize things in certain times in our order is the decree-law. Otherwise there is no chance of having a legislative process with certain times within Parliament. This is a problem, but we have also dealt with it as a political majority and as a Democratic Party, along with all the other forces that stand with us in the legislature, through constitutional reforms. We have eliminated equal bicameralism and we have foreseen a legislative process with certain times without resorting to decree-laws and reducing the use of the same. Beyond the discussions that we continue to do almost in a ritual way, we have actually assumed the responsibility of finding radical and structural solutions to solve the problem of using the decree-law to ensure that there are certain times in the discussions of legislative measures. Turning to the second point, which is that of the existence of the elements of necessity and urgency, referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution, I believe that a debate on the subject can be developed. I am sorry that there have been a number of speeches which have vigorously tried to say that they are not there. It seems clear to me that on this issue we really have needs arising from Directive No 59 of 2014, the " Bank recovery and resolution director " (BRRD), which since January 1, 2016 includes new rules that seek to address the issue of banking crises. It has already passed on 1 January and, therefore, we are already in the regime provided for in the European directive. In particular, this directive precludes the possibility of intervening as before - i.e. helping banks with state money - if there are no strong and obvious reasons of public interest, i.e. the need to preserve the stability of the financial system. It is clear that this will not happen so easily and therefore we will certainly face cases that will be resolved with the failure. We need to move quickly to change our system, to facilitate access to the capital market. The BRRD aims to avoid the use of large public resources in favour of banks in difficulty, introducing the general principle that crisis costs should be borne by the shareholders and creditors of the banks, with a possible residual role of public intervention. Public intervention, in the past, before this directive intervened, has been used mainly by other countries, and Italy has not used public funds to help banks. Today we must go to restructure and strengthen our banking system, to give more guarantees and protection to savers. The role of the Bank of Italy is known and is typically expressed in the intervention at the first signs of deterioration of financial conditions, with the appointment of commissioners that accompany or replace the administrative bodies. In the event of a breakdown, there are compulsory administrative winding-up procedures, but special procedures are also born with this directive to reduce systemic risks, such as the forceful transfer of goods from the intermediary in crisis to private buyers, the establishment of special purpose vehicles, such as bridge banks or - worse - bad banks, and there are new resolution tools. The bail in, often quoted, is the forceful reduction of the value of the shares and the conversion of some types of debts into shares. It is the opposite of the bail out, in which costs are assumed by the State. They are not hit by the bail in deposits of less than 100,000 euros and therefore there are measures that protect small savers. Colleagues, if it is not this changed context that calls for urgent action to ensure that the banking system and its subsystems strengthen the protection of savers, what must happen in order to act urgently and urgently? I make a single political assessment, which seems appropriate to me: when the banks failed and the State could intervene, in Italy it would have shouted at the scandal if the State had intervened with public resources, but this in Italy did not happen. Now, however, that state intervention is averted by the new European rules - and therefore no public resources are being used - there is a cry for scandal if the state does not intervene. It is clear that the interest of savers must be protected, but through structural reforms, which must be done immediately, because we have recognised structural fragility in the system of cooperative credit banks, linked to those that are certainly the historical positive elements of the BCC system. They are in fact linked to the territory and to the small basins, but they are so small that they do not allow to share the risks, which can arise in the event of a crisis of the system. In conclusion, the measure under consideration has done a good job, precisely in order to increase the protection for savers, promoting the aggregation of BCCs in one or a few well-capitalised banking groups capable of attracting investors. I think I have sufficiently justified the reasons for extraordinary necessity and urgency, in accordance with Article 77 of the Constitution, for which I pre-announce that we shall vote in favour of the measure and against the prejudices that have been tabled. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u92	There is a representation of students from the Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, to whom we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u95	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, I refer to Article 77 of the Constitution, which is applied or interpreted in its literary rigour, as I believe Senator De Petris has done, but as do all those who present a preliminary constitutionality. As the previous speaker has said, the first point that is highlighted in a question of constitutional prejudice of a measure is the possibility, for that matter and for that rule, to see the system of urgent decree provided for precisely in Article 77. But in the history and parliamentary practice we have seen how this rule has been interpreted in the most flexible way possible by all the political forces that have moved to the government of the country. This does not mean - be careful - violation of the constitutional rule. It means interpreting the rule on the basis of principles of reasonableness and consistency. Now, we neglect to consider that the same rule, when it provides for the possibility, that is, the power, of the Government to issue a decree-law, assigns to the Government, author of this provision, also responsibility. So much so that, at the same time, we read: "The Government adopts under its responsibility." Therefore, when a Government adopts a decree-law, considering that those elements of necessity and urgency exist, it also does so by taking responsibility for its legislative action. So, seen in this direction and given the precedents, it seems to me that this first exception of inconstitutionality can be safely archived and fired without being worthy of further study. The problem of merit and urgency remains: whether or not there is urgency. Here is a question of views. What does it mean that there is an urgent need to intervene or there is no urgency to intervene? Probably, for someone who preceded me should intervene in urgent cases when the crisis in the sector has occurred or the interests of savers have been compromised. We must never forget that our country is the main country of the culture of saving and therefore the action of government goes, in this area, in the primary direction, prince, of protecting savers, because they represent a large part of the Italians. Then, if we have to intervene when the crisis has occurred, that is, when the patient is dying, perhaps, in this way, the Members who preceded me are perfectly right. But if there is the wisdom of an urgent intervention in the prodromic phase to the crisis and therefore to the irreversibleity of the damage, then this is that moment. If we have Directive No 59 of 2014 which enters into force on 1 January 2016, someone has to tell me whether, within these six months, this constitutional architecture of ours would have been able to intervene by adapting national rules to that directive. I challenge anyone to tell me that this would not be possible. So what remains if there is no possibility of ordinary regulatory intervention? There is the possibility of the urgent intervention of the decree-law, so reasoning not because we support the Government, but because, provision by provision, we commit our reason and our wisdom in deciding whether to share or not to share; and in this case our reasons and our sense of balance lead us to share the choice of the instrument of the decree-law by the Government, however, considering the reasons of unconstitutionality from an exquisitely scientific point of view. For these reasons, we shall vote against the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u96	Before we proceed to the vote, I ask the Secretary Senators to do a check on the cards inserted, because I see many empty places and many cards. Maybe the coworkers are at the buvette. In this way we avoid controversy. I would also ask you to comply with the Presidency's recommendation to take the cards with you when you leave the Chamber. I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Bernini and other senators (QP1), Senator Stefani and other senators (QP2), Senator Catalfo and other senators (QP3) and Senator De Petris and other senators (QP4). It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u97	Madam President, for the umpteenth time we are faced with a measure on which the Senate cannot express itself. This is an extremely sensitive measure that breaks into the delicate mechanism of the banks. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u98	Senator Malan, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u99	Colleagues, those who have to leave do so quickly, please, so Senator Malan can intervene with less buzz. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). As I said, the measure goes hand in hand with the banking system, putting into difficulty the smaller ones, those that are generally closest to the territory, savers, companies and traders. Because great is beautiful, according to this Government: everything must be combined; municipalities and banks must be merged. Unfortunately, however, in large municipalities and in large banks we often do not have great good examples. Then when we see large banks like, for example, the prestigious Monte dei Paschi di Siena, of more than remarkable size, as well as of very long history, being in the conditions in which it is, I would say it is not desirable that other banks follow this example. But the government likes the big dimensions, so politics can probably get in there more easily, or rather that government policy can get in there more easily. And the Government also likes anatocism (which, although it is a rather sought after word, begins to be known by Italians, in particular by savers) which is the so-called interest on interests. There was a rule forbidding it. Well, the House, with a nice amendment, has been introduced instead a paragraph, which today constitutes article 17-bis of the provision, which re-introduces anatocism, even if only on an annual basis. The beauty is that, with remarkable, extraordinary tough face, it is presented as a new abolition, exactly as in the Cetto La Qualunque's rally, which promises the abolition of the tax on dogs and to those who point out that it has already been abolished responds that it will abolish it again: abolished twice! Here, worse than Cetto La Qualunque, rather than abolishing twice, the Government reinstates what had been abolished, namely interest on interests: a rule of law that existed before, is reintroduced in favor of the banks and against the saver, especially the indebted saver who can be indebted, in most cases, to produce something, to buy something; in other words, to make the economy walk. Between the saver and the bank, between the company, the trader, the professional and the bank, the government openly sided with the banks, telling of having abolished the anatocism. Too bad it had already been abolished and is being reintroduced at this time. 18.25 p.m. (Malan followed). The Senate cannot intervene because no change could be made in the Commission; no action will be taken in this House because I foresee, with great divinatory capacity, that confidence will, by chance, be placed. These days it is clear that this confidence mechanism is the complete deletion of both transparency and Parliament's examination. The government wants to do the banks a favor? It is free to do so, but it must be able to face the House, and therefore the vote on a single amendment calling for the abolition of that paragraph, in this case of that article, so that everyone is called to speak, even the senators of the majority; the majority, in fact, perhaps - indeed, surely - risking something from the leaders of their own party, could also vote on the side of the citizens and not necessarily on the side of the banks. However, this will not be possible with the vote of confidence, which is justified by the fact that we must do it quickly. What's the rush? The decree-law is already in force and the Constitution - for those who did not remember it - says that the decree-law enters into force immediately, which is why the necessary and urgent measures of this decree-law are already in force. There would be time - given that the decree-law expires on April 15 - to make some changes, for example, seriously abolishing anatocism, and instead you do not want to do it: you put trust because you have to do it quickly. We have seen how quickly he has done on the Tempa Rossa and on the many other scumbags introduced by the Government with decree-laws on which trust has been placed [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] without giving Members a chance to express themselves and without giving Parliament the opportunity to make laws for the citizens and not for the personal friends of the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u100	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, on a preliminary basis - I regret that Mrs Bottici is not here - I would like to reflect among ourselves on one point. I continue to listen to a statement which I not only disagree with, since I was rapporteur for that measure - I am referring to the IMU-Bankitalia decree, and on that occasion we had the opportunity to discuss it both in the Commission and in this House - but which does not correspond to the reality of things. Therefore, I speak in a totally non-controversial way, because even in the comparison between us that can and must be harsh, we remain to the facts. If we keep saying something that isn't true, it doesn't become true. When, that is, it is said that this Government and its majority gave EUR 7.5 billion to the banks, for anyone listening to this means that the State has paid 7.5 billion into the banks' coffers. Because that's not true, I try to say what happened. The revaluation of the capital does not involve any disbursement of money by anyone. [[Senator Endrizzi's comments.]] It is only an internal accounting book, which moves the indicated amount from the capital reserves. Even the quota holding banks carry out a simple accounting writing and revalue their shares, but this time they pay the tax on capital gain, without having pocketed any money. When banks in excess of the 5% limit introduced by that measure will have to sell shares of their capital, then and only then will they pocket the real money, but who will pay will not be the state but the investors who will buy those shares. That is what has happened so far in some cases and it will happen when the process is completed. It is possible to discuss - and it is legitimate to do so - the appropriateness of the revaluation made in 2014. However, I would remind this Assembly that that adequacy was identified within a fork and a swing proposed by the Bank of Italy itself and in any case there is an incontrovertible fact: in 2014 no one could honestly, from an intellectual and economic point of view, say that the correct capital for the Bank of Italy was that, as it was then, of 156,000 euros. I say this because I think it is right, on this ground, to compare the data. I shall now return to the subject under discussion today, and I will start again with the provision of some basic data. What are we arguing about? We are discussing a significant share of the Italian banking system: the BCC and the rural banks are 364, equal to 55.9 percent of the total of Italian banks. We are talking about 4,450 branches; a fortune of 20,5 billion euros; 1,230,000 members; jobs, in the real economy, for 135 billion and a collection from customers of 161,5 billion euros. And these are data as of June 30, 2015. The BCC's market shares come in the craft sector at 22.5 percent, in the agricultural sector at 18.3 percent; in housing and catering at 17.9 percent; in construction at 11.1 percent; in trade at 10 percent and in the non-profit sector at 13 percent. The question is: why intervene? I listened to the speeches on the issue of constitutionality but, beyond the assessments whether the correct intervention was a decree-law or a draft law, the question arises whether there were any reasons to intervene. And the answer is yes. But I don't answer: answers the intervention carried out by Carmelo Barbagallo, head of the banking and financial supervision department of Bankitalia, in audition to the Chamber on 1 March 2016. Basically, Barbagallo posed the following question: there is a problem of weakness of the governance model that produces, in the current phase of the capital market, a difficulty in strengthening assets, which historically the BCC had solved through self-financing, but which the erosion of profits due to the crisis no longer allows. Therefore, the issue is as follows: when, even in view of the new European supervisory rules, the BCC system has to move towards the capital market, it is necessary to strengthen the assets but, in order to do this, it is necessary to put the whole system in hand. There is another faithful fact that has led to the intervention, that is a greater vulnerability than the history and tradition - in some cases centenary - of the BCC, which derives from the increase in the share of the so-called deteriorated credits, which in some cases can be derived also from bad management, or however from bad banking choices. But, more generally, it is the result of a problem that the BCCs actually have in view of a value of their business, since more than other banks - more than many foreign banks, for example - have a relationship with the real economy. In essence, they gave money directly to the system of small and very small enterprises that have suffered, in this recessionary economic phase much longer than all the other crises, a very strong backlash and therefore, consequently, being more exposed, today have an increase of the deteriorated credits and have - Bankitalia data - a rate of coverage inferior to that of the system. Therefore, with regard to the question whether one should or could intervene, beyond the instrument, the answer I believe is positive. And it is important and welcome - as I said in the Commission and I repeat this in this House - that Federcasse played a pro-active role throughout this phase with the preparation of a self-form project. Unlike, for example, Assopopular and what had happened for popular banks, Federcasse managed to propose to the system, the Government and the Bank of Italy a self-form project. The decree-law - later I will expose a criticism of what it did later - has basically transposed the plant of this project according to which, in a nutshell, the BCCs can no longer continue to carry out banking activities unless they join a cooperative banking group, the so-called holding company, which has a capital of at least one billion. Here is a point, however, on which I want to be clear: while it was absolutely acceptable, and it is shared, the approach given by Federcasse, namely the idea of the single cooperative banking group, the holding company, the qualitative leap on the capital market and the problems - for example - of adaptation and compliance - is a correct answer - the government has included in the original text the so-called way out, which was not contained in the proposal of self-form. It is, in particular, the possibility of freeing the indivisible reserves in the case of transformation into SpA and also a way out with the transformation into SpA for BCCs with more than 200 million assets. Why the way out? I have not yet been able to find an answer on why the way out and the terms with which it was inserted have been inserted. It is necessary to acknowledge that the Government has heard in part, even if not all, the criticisms that have been raised and in the long debate and in the discussion carried out in the Commission and in the Chamber of the House, a text that presents important revisions: the intangibility of the indivisible reserves, the possibility of constituting the subgroups, the possibility of splitting the banking activity by the cooperative with the payment of the tax of 20%, but confirming the mutuality, and especially with the obligatory opinion of Bankitalia. If there had been the possibility of still being able to reason and intervene, I believe that some further reflection on the meaning and modalities of the way out would have been desirable because, as it is structured, it presents a risk of weakening the system if there will be many exits of the BCC. Another point, I think, needs to be stressed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. Mr Fornaro (PD). I'll make one final point. There was the possibility for the BCC, which was instead prevented by the decree-law, to become popular banks. Ultimately, one step forward was taken in the House's work, but there is some regret that the Senate probably had some further filing and the introduction of correction elements compared to the way out would have been necessary. I believe and hope that the Government will be willing, during and in the course of this reform, to amend some of its rules if necessary. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u102	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u103	Mr President, Senators, Senators, Representatives of the Government, let me once again point out that, under the pretext of urgency in sensitive areas, you have intervened with the decree of urgency, putting together heterogeneous elements and once more mortifying this branch of Parliament, preventing us, since the measure comes with the built-in confidence, to make the necessary corrections (some of which Mr Fornaro has mentioned), as in the case of securitisation and the reform of the BCC, in particular. On the latter, despite the importance of the stakes, we also agree that it is necessary and necessary to intervene, so much so that the best wishes and the best expectations we had found precisely in the self-sustaining form of cooperative credit. We believe that, in the plant that you have brought to Parliament's attention, all this has been betrayed, because you have given birth to a dangerous hybrid. Yet, I had appreciated the self-form project, for how we were illustrated, among other things, in a seminar held in the Senate. But what you want to offer us today has betrayed those intentions, born under the best auspices. The first objective of the reform was to safeguard the biodiversity of the credit system, while respecting the social function of mutual cooperation, also in the new banking world that will come to be determined after the BRD and, therefore, the introduction of the bail in (or precisely for that). On the other hand, it has been forgotten that the objective of the cooperative bank is not to pay capital as much as possible, but to contribute to the economic development of the local reality, made up of exchanges of utility between its various souls and components, ensuring a normal return on the resources employed. This project of yours speaks, on the contrary, of an obsession with a single form of bank, the universal form of capitalist style, imposed from above and which risks betraying the constitutional mandate. What a serious mistake - as my colleague Mr Fornaro has also pointed out - to have eliminated the possibility of authorising mergers and transformations between cooperative banks and popular banks, leaving as the only possibility the only recourse to the form of bank constituted in joint stock companies. The cohesion contract between the banks forming the group also had to provide, precisely indicating the powers conferred on the parent company (the so-called holding company), the discipline of its management and its coordination, but respecting the mutual aims and the safeguarding of local realities, for the identification and implementation of the strategic and operational guidelines necessary for this activity. The control power had only to take place in a dynamic way and be targeted at the individual bank, in order to ensure the achievement of the consolidated accounting of the group, precisely to protect the interests of the territory and the users of the bank itself. On the other hand, the powers of the parent vis-à-vis the administrative and control bodies of the member companies, as you have drawn them, are an unusual expansion of the power of the parent, which makes it ordinary to appoint, oppose the appointment or revoke one or more of their members, a faculty originally provided only in exceptional cases. That the exercise of this power must, however, be motivated - as you have represented it - I believe that it is little, and even more so if that motivation is not timely, as I had tried to support with an amendment. The intention to strengthen the group's competitiveness and consolidate its capital position seems to be even more lacking when the provisions on the limitation of the acquisition of cross holdings in the capital of the parent cooperative credit banks are extended to the banks covered by the so-called territorial sub-groups, hybrid entities which are structurally unrelated to the traditional forms of mutual exchange of utility. Is it possible that we cannot see the danger of such a mixture? We do not expect an easy task - I believe - in the supervision that the Bank of Italy will have to operate on the basis of the provisions that it will be called upon to dictate and on the basis of the regulation that the Ministry will have to issue. And I hope it will be better than it was during the last crises in the sector, such as that of Banca Etruria et similia. In this context of gender confusion, the extension of the provisions that may apply to cooperative credit banks, allowing their assemblies to appoint directors and companies themselves to issue participatory financial instruments, possibilities hitherto excluded from the civil code, may leave more than any doubt on the concrete effects of their management and use and on the combined effects of restrictions on the circulation of participatory financial instruments and on the way in which votes are attributed to their holders in assembly. This puts into crisis the principle of capitarian voting, which is the instrument by which the democratic method has been introduced within a sector more attentive to the capitalist aspect than to the social one. If anything, the attempt of the reform - I believe - had to go in the direction of avoiding its personalistic and familiaristic drift of its use - as happened, alas, in some local realities - but not eliminating it in fact and thus favoring the capital. Let us not forget the possibility that the financing shares can - as you have built them - be subscribed by the parent company in derogation from the territorial constraint and the limits of participation established for the ordinary members, allowing the issue - even under the permission of the Bank of Italy - even outside the cases of patrimonial insufficiency and extraordinary administration. But what is really perplexing - and Mr Fornaro has also pointed out - in this much desired reform is, as it was built, the prediction of the so-called way out, which states the possibility of excluding the devolution effect, as requested by a famous ruling of the Constitutional Court in 2008. Now, in a formulation that has undergone, as modifications, Article 2 - in the paragraphs ranging from 3-a to 3 -quater - excludes the aforementioned devolutionary effects where the cooperative credit bank involved in the aforementioned extraordinary transactions has a net worth of more than 200 million euros, resulting from the balance sheet at 31 December 2015, on which the auditor has not expressed observations - and less badly, I would like to say - with the only burden - so you have built it - to submit to the Bank of Italy an application to confer the company on a joint stock company banking activity (always, in fact, the capital). At the time of the transfer, the bank will pay to the State's balance sheet an amount of 20% of the equity as a result of the balance sheet. What is - I repeat - the logical-juridical foundation of such a building I did not understand. The amendments we tabled, together with the other friends, in the Commission to try to give order in this area were, of course, rejected, because we cannot touch the package. And all this is done by remaining silent about the other serious problem of securitisation of the claims present in this measure, sold by banks and financial intermediaries based in Italy and qualified as non-performing loans, for which the Minister of Economy and Finance is authorized to grant the State guarantee. The flat-rate quantification of these covers, in fact, remains unrealistically dangerous - let me say, Mr Vice Minister - with the further risk that the provisions on the securitisation of banking suffering, while addressing a systemic problem of the sector, could involve the spread of toxic securities among savers coming from other roads. In short, in particular, another opportunity seems to have been missed to unmark our banking system from a single model; our production system, characterized by an entrepreneurial structure consisting essentially of small and medium-sized enterprises, suitable to face the challenges of flexibility and innovation in the international field, which could and should have found in this reform a new reality of cooperative credit. The risk is to lose the drive of small but important realities that have contributed, however, more than the big banks - and the data has reminded us of them my colleague Fornaro - to provide credit to small and medium-sized enterprises, but also to the consumption of families, on the national territory in these hard years of crisis. The country would like to know why it wanted to miss this further opportunity and, at the same time, wanted to undermine that bulwark put in the Constitution to defend concentrations in the financial and banking sector, which instead must maintain its biodiversity. We should not have renounced the design of participatory finance, in which both large and small are placed and where the democratic principle of choice is exalted. The European model of cooperative credit that this reform seriously undermines has been the only antidote to counter the overpower of large financial conglomerates and, even more so today, waiting to return to the model of separation that has kept the banking system, such as the Canadian one, which has never abandoned it, in which commercial banks (which accept deposits and make loans) and business banks (which issue and negotiate securities) are separated. Let us hope - I very much hope - that this reform will not turn into the final act of a suicide announced for our banking sector. [[Applause from Senators Campanella and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u104	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u105	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, rapporteur - he is not here now, but I welcome him and thank him for the work he has done - I would like to address the President of the Senate, the Group leaders and all my colleagues and colleagues in order to raise an institutional problem. I would like to raise a problem which seems very serious to me. Since 2008, the Lehman Brothers affair has triggered and marked the beginning of the crisis in the United States of America and Europe. The banks have been the protagonists of the economic crisis and have been conditioned by it, because of course it has led to a great increase in suffering in each and, therefore, further difficulties in lending credit. The Italian Parliament has rightly dealt with banking matters during the 17th legislature. The reform of the Bank of Italy has been carried out and the European Union has established the transition of supervision of the banking system to the European Central Bank. Meanwhile, the Senate Finance and Treasury Committee, having a technical nature, has tried, under the impulse of its President and with the consent of the opposition and the majority, to work concretely on the problems. An enlightening example was the issue of tax delegation, on which the work carried out in the Commission allowed Parliament to approve the delegation and not to lose the work carried out in the previous legislature both in the House and in the Senate. The Finance and Treasury Commission has dealt with the problem of banks and carried out a serious survey with numerous hearings, through which all those who could provide suggestions and opinions were heard. But then we realized that the situation was going down. Unfortunately, a lot of work has been done on the subject of banks for nothing, because throughout 2015 and at the beginning of 2016 the Senate of the Italian Republic could not really deal with the problems of the Italian banking system. That's the truth. Three basic measures were taken, beginning with the decree-law for the reform of popular banks, which arrived in the Senate and there was two or three days. With the question of trust, there was almost no time to read it, not to mention the impossibility of tabling amendments and expressing some views. And yes, there was. Then there was the story of the four banks, which was dealt with in an amendment presented to the House to the 2016 Stability Act, which was approved by the Senate last December. The passage of the measure from examination in the Commission to the final vote in this House, I believe, took place in no more than two or three days and, therefore, we have been struggling to read the measure. Now comes the BCC's action. With fairness and loyalty, of which I would like to acknowledge, Vice Minister Morando in the 6th Commission said very clearly that the Government was trying to work so that the text of the House would not be modified by the Senate. And that was the philosophy with which the measure was approved. The House had examined it, but we do not have the opportunity to express ourselves in concrete terms. In fact, we in the Commission have at least approved four or five agendas. This is the contribution we have made. Then I think and I would like to remind all of us that the Senate reform still needs to be approved by the House; it will be put to referendum if the House, as is foreseeable, will approve it and the Italians will decide, and then it will be applied by the next legislature. I address myself with great energy and I ask Vice-President Gasparri to convey the meaning of this speech to President Grasso. I turn to President Grasso, to the Presidents of the Groups themselves, to all senators, because such a situation is unacceptable from an institutional point of view. As far as the substance of the measure is concerned, I would stress that reform is necessary, could have been better and, in this respect, I refer only to documents and, in other words, to the numerous comments made by the Commissions 10a and 14a in their non-obstacles opinion. The majority in the 6th Commission decided not to take these comments into account and, on the other hand, in his speech a few minutes ago, Mr Fornaro said that the measure was perfectible. That's Senator Fornaro's opinion. Mine was that it had to be very modified, but we all recognize that it was not done. I will conclude by appealing once again to President Grasso: please protect the role of the Senate. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u106	We're gonna be interpreters of the appeal. It is our duty to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u107	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u108	Mr President, another important part of the government's intervention on the banking system, which began last year with the reform of popular banks, has come to the attention of this House, a measure which should have rationalised a sector, but which is in fact proving to be the rescue of someone in difficulty. The same spirit has accompanied the adoption, at the end of 2015, of another legislation so urgent and necessary that it has been transposed into the law of stability. I am referring to the so-called rescue banks, which jumped to the honours of the chronicles more for the family issues related to one of the four banks affected by the measure than for the operation of that same bank. The judiciary is considering this operation as an aggravated scam against savers who are often unaware of the repercussions of their subscriptions. Bank rescue is a cloaking measure, in the balance between the novelty of the bail in and the traditional state aid, which led to an arm wrestling with the European Commission. The European Union has not yet given its green light to the way in which the Commission intends to compensate the victims of that operation and which has made necessary the decree-law that we are now examining, containing the necessary measures to deal with the harmful effects of the crisis. First of all, the development of the market for so-called non-performing loans (NPL), a gigantic stock of deteriorated loans accumulated over the years, which is the real brake from which the poor credit supply to the economy by the banks results. In the case of deteriorated loans, State intervention is envisaged, through a special guarantee which, however, does not seem appropriate to the objective set. Although it is also the result of a "trade" with the European Commission, welcomed by the Government, this guarantee to us Conservatives and Reformists seems to be characterized by elements that give rise to different perplexities. I give just one example, asking if a guarantee will achieve its purpose, which, among other things, is provided only on so-called senior (i.e. safer) securities, which becomes effective only after the bank has transferred 50 percent plus 1 of the so-called iunior (i.e. the most risky) securities. I also wonder whether the public resources allocated to this intervention have been properly provided for, or whether we run the very real risk of finding ourselves in the near future - perhaps next year - having to intervene in order to fill in the amount available today, given the possibility of extending that guarantee. The measure before this House is certainly a composite and complex measure, which is also the vehicle for the reform of an important part of the credit sector: cooperative credit. Here is a good part of the country's economic history that is invested by the Government's proposal. That to our attention is, in fact, the third phase of the history of mutual credit in Italy. We remember it only to pay homage to those pioneers who, about a century ago, invented local formulas and more anthropologically suited to the culture and peasant needs inherent in the society of the time, expression of the small and medium-sized regional and provincial communities. The work, the fatigue, the propensity and the education to save, the mutual use of money, in that historical period, are the basis of the virtuous phenomenon of rural and artisan coffers. The rural coffers are the first stage; the second is the transformation into cooperative credit banks in 1993. Now we are in the third phase, that of the holding company, that is the formation of the third Italian banking group, that it is desirable can have positive effects on the economy of the territories. It is, in fact, absolutely important that cooperative credit continues to serve economic operators, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and families of the multifaceted Italian province. We congratulate the BCC's institutional system, because it has been able to preserve its prerogatives and has defended with close teeth the peculiarities of making credit and regulating it, starting from the bottom. Finally, this is a reform that starts from the bottom and, that is, from the direct stakeholders. It is a complex reform, starting with the wrong foot: I am thinking only of the original text, in which there was no possibility of withdrawing from the holding company and which, during the examination at the other branch of Parliament, was somehow adjusted. These were, however, interventions that outlined a new operation, which can be positively assessed for a single reason: the safeguarding of diversity, which involves the presence on the market of an important part of the history and the solidarity and mutualist culture of the credit of our country. In conclusion, today's capitalism appears chameleontic and omnivorous, it transposes and absorbs values, symbols and words of civil society and politics. Cooperative credit remains a bastion of all this. By lending a title contained in the house organ of Federcasse, the Federation of Cooperative Credit Banks, I remember that the economy that is only economy becomes diseconomy. It becomes, in essence, mincer, humiliation, cynicism. It mortifies the men and women they undertake, who risk, who put their work to capital, evoking the crisis of the values and fundamentals of Italian society. We therefore hope that this reform will help to create values. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister, the series of bad government initiatives on the banking system continues by decree-law. After the BCC reform, we are at the top of the list. After the decree-law popular banks, the rescue banks, the bail in, which have caused damage to thousands and thousands of savers and companies, especially medium-small, there is a risk of having a negative impact - especially with the bail in - on the collections for the same credit institutions. The legislative instrument provided in the Constitution for situations of extraordinary necessity and urgency is improperly used in a reform of the entire cooperative credit system, which represents a substantial share of the Italian credit system; a complex and articulated system, having more than one hundred and thirty years of history, formed by 364 banks firmly rooted in the territory, with more than 1,2 million members, 37,000 employees and more than 6 million users; a great heritage that promotes solidarity, social and intergenerational, through credit institutions inspired by the principles of mutual assistance. How can we speak of the urgency of a reform for such a widespread reality? Of course, there are problems that present risks of insolvency, but concern less than 20 BCCs of the total, which could be dealt with separately. Instead of proceeding with a normal legislative process that highlights the role of Parliament, the government has not only chosen a wrong instrument, which compresses times and dialogues and gags the Senate in yet another confidence. In writing the provision has also shown its inadequacy. It is full of grafts and references to existing norms, with contradictions, opacity, indetermines that create confusion and interpretative doubts for those who have to apply these laws. Not only that: here too we find the trademark of Renziano, which is the care not of the collective interest, but of a narrow circle of relatives, friends and associates, who condition and distort the laws for their own benefit. After Bank Etruria and Tempa Rossa, also in this decree-law there was the intervention of a member of the Government, attributable to the magic lily, which forced the hand with the introduction of the famous clause of the way out. The Renzi Government, in the process of converting the decree-law to the House, has invented a loophole for friends who did not like the obligation to join the single banking group; a rule that, in contempt of Article 3 of the Constitution, has been customized for the Tuscan friendly banks, such as the BCC of Cambiano, led by Dad Lotti, or ChiantiBanca, the former bank of Denis Verdini, today rescuer of the majority. What has become apparent is an embarrassing defense of the Tuscan territory, with figures studied at the table! I am speaking of embarrassment, because this was expressed among the majority and government representatives, who in the Commission did not have a plausible argument in the defence of the escape clause. Excuse me, but if the Government has put the bar at one billion for the cooperative banking group, how can the capital threshold of 200 million, the so-called loophole, be considered of complete safety for a bank that operates in the form of SpA? We stress how this measure confirms the inability of the majority and the left to exploit socio-economic models that are their own and natural and, therefore, the will to pursue those that do not belong to us. Italy is a whole of different territories, cultures, languages and communities. And in this variety and specificity of our country, it is true that sometimes there is room for excesses and limits of localism, but our immense resources are also rooted. With this reform we are far from overcoming these limits. The new cooperative banking group will not go anywhere near, in size, similar groups in France, Germany or even in the small Netherlands. It is therefore unlikely that we will achieve the result of creating an Italian holding company of cooperative credit that can compare to equal weapons with similar ones on the international market. On the other hand, there is a real risk of permanently losing a heritage made of cooperative credit companies strongly rooted in the territory, in symbiosis with the different economic and productive realities of the country. Too bad that the decree-law recognizes these specificities to the autonomous Provinces of Bolzano and Trento only, but it ignores them in the rest of the country, when they are instead of all evidence. Cooperative credit banks have always, in the vast majority of cases with full success, adapted their financing model to the different realities in which they operate: a peculiar system that has demonstrated an extraordinary ability to resist and amortize the devastating financial crisis effects such as that experienced in 2008, with queues also in the following years, and in many cases the cooperative credit banks - I remember and emphasize - have remained the only institutions to provide credit to families and businesses. With the hasty reform that we are voting on today, we are seriously at risk of losing an invaluable asset due to the inability of this Government to recognize, value and appreciate it. We believe that the decree-law, in order to make room for the reasons of the free market, carries with it dangerous aspects, so the character of mutuality, cooperation and other values risk being destroyed. Let me make one thing clear: if you plan to relaunch the country's economy, in serious difficulty, continuing to propose models that favour the great realities, among large banks, large FIAT-style companies, large municipalities, the result of mergers imposed from above, you are out of the way. Stop before you go banging and banging the country. Do not forget - I repeat - that this country has a history of success that has been governed above all by an economic, productive and social system based on small and medium-sized enterprises, tireless craftsmen, traders, and thanks to a widespread credit system that has worked as a support and safety net. Times change, but they are always needed. In any case, the real game of this reform, which will determine the real scope and effects of the reform, will be played with the work that will be done in the next two years. If the pacts and the cohesion agreement are not written directly by the cooperative credit banks, but exclusively by Bankitalia or the cooperative banking group, there will be serious repercussions on the territory. I'm just gonna give you an example. If the desire to make a single purchasing power station emerges, we will have the confirmation that our doubts are founded on the understanding of the will to destroy the local economies. I start by reminding Renzi and the members of the Government, about banks, that there are still tens of thousands of people who have been waiting for answers for some time. They are those savers who were first deceived by Banca Etruria, Banca delle Marche, Carichieti and Cariferrara to subscribe to subordinate garbage bonds, and who were then cheated by the Government by the decree saves banks, which made them lose their life savings. A bad measure, then merged into the 2016 law of stability, which only following protests that saw in the front row the North League alongside savers has established a fund of refreshment of 100 million, although decidedly insufficient, but that at the same time introduced arbitration and related criteria, that is, dangerous discretionary elements that will discontent everyone and will certainly give rise to litigation. You promised savers an accelerated lane to close the game of refreshments by the end of January; an unexpected promise. Then you hypothesized an increase in the fund to 280-300 million, to fully return the theft exercised with dexterity; only chatter. Meanwhile, on March 30, the deadline set by law for the issuing of both the ministerial decree that was to establish the criteria for arbitration, and the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers for the choice of referees, has been abundantly exceeded. It is absurd: beat the Italians if they violate the laws, if they delay paying one of the exterminated taxes and then you do worse. Shame! On this occasion, too, you are proving to be a bankrupt and unreliable Executive, which must therefore go absolutely home, because not only does it not know how to solve the problems of the Italians, but even in many cases it aggravates them. I am talking about the subalternity of our country to Europe, Turkey, India, Egypt; the taxes that do not drop and the studies of vexation sector. I am talking about employment and unemployment, which is still increasing after the decontribution on recruitment. I am talking about the increased public debt for financial maneuvers with an electoral taste, the insecurity of the territories and the unholy management of illegal immigration; a bomb that this year will deflate. No, Mr President, there is absolutely no such thing; the common good would have liked anything else than this decree-law. [[Senator Tosato's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u110	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caridi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are discussing today in this House would be a clear example of banking regulation. This is a great example of reform since Federcasse has actively participated in the drafting of the text and, therefore, many cooperative credit institutions. It would be desirable to use these methods of drafting texts on many more occasions and on many of the matters on which this House is called upon to fulfil its principal function, the legislative function, of which, however, with regard to the measure in question, it seems to me that it has clearly abused itself. I say this after a careful reading of the article, which provides a discipline so detailed that it is pathological. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say that we are probably faced with one of the most directing interventions that has ever been done in the economic field and in the field of banking regulation. We have been regularly complaining about the rules that the European Union, through directives and regulations, has imposed on the Italian banking system in recent years, rigidly binding it to specific parameters, and we are today debating a measure that succeeds in the bad business of overcoming European dirigism in economic and banking matters. The idea, underlying the reform, that the exercise of banking activity in the form of cooperative credit banks is allowed only to cooperative institutions that are part of a larger cooperative banking group, to which they have decided to join, has as a potential consequence the end of cooperative credit in Italy, while in other countries, such as Germany, Belgium and Sweden, political, economic and trade union forces fight tirelessly to defend their cooperative banks. In fact, the aggregation of the BCCs into large cooperative banking groups only distorts the local aspect of the BCCs themselves, which of territoriality have made a distinctive feature as well as their strength. This will damage the weaker areas of the country, especially the Mezzogiorno, where cooperative credit banks have always been an example of financial intermediation of the and on the territory, precisely because of their autonomy that has allowed them, historically, to be closer and more attentive to the needs of customers, whether they were simple citizens or companies. Those same companies that today, due to the combined nature of the recession and the level of regulation, find it difficult to find financial partners willing to give them confidence. Within this Assembly I proudly represent the Italian Region which, according to the latest ISTAT surveys, is the last for declared average income. Of course, I am referring to Calabria, where the grip on credit, due to the economic situation and the deep-rooted prejudice of the main Italian credit institutions, has had serious repercussions for all that business world which should be the first engine of it, and which is sadly destined for oblivion. Greater attention to local dynamics on the part of the Government would probably have favoured the adoption of a measure that would not distort, in such a powerful way, the very nature of cooperative credit. It would have been possible to take the path of rationalization of the BCCs on a regional basis, instead it was wanted stubbornly to follow the path of a reform that will cancel the cooperative typology in the banking system, reducing the margins of competition and competitiveness. One cannot forget that our country has founded its economic and financial history on a fundamental difference: that between large banks and small banks. With the decree-law that this Parliament is about to convert, this distinction is about to disappear. And that is not all: the so-called regulatory burden extends from large banks to small ones, with an inevitable increase in the rules that small cooperative credit institutions will be called to respect. The rigidities, rules and limitations on credit that companies and families in the weakest areas of the country have been experiencing for some time will increase. We will witness the end of the banks of the territory, once a real factor of development, and the consequent weakening of the system of small and medium-sized enterprises, supporting structure of the national economy, to which the financial interlocutor who knows closely the reality in which the entrepreneur operates will definitely lack. In the name of banking efficiency, we will lose in accumulation of share capital, of which cooperative credit is extraordinary generator. We would have supported with conviction real objectives of rationalization of the cooperative credit system, such as a 50% reduction in the number of CCBs within five years (from 400 to 200). We would have enjoyed the participation of larger banking groups in the capital of the BCCs, in order to strengthen them and make them competitive on the banking market, but always keeping the majority of the capital in the hands of the BCCs themselves. Instead, it was preferred to opt for a strong interventionism of the State in the banking system, interventionism that does nothing but fade, until it becomes imperceptible, the good intentions of efficiency of the cooperative credit system at the basis of the measure, of which, dear colleagues, I think I have expressed some worrying criticalities.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u112	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u113	Mr President, senators and senators, Mr Deputy Minister, the Senate Assembly is faced with a subject which has been and is the subject of great public attention. The story of the four failed banks, the need to offer greater protection to savers, the new European rules on bail in and the fluctuations on the stock exchange that have concerned the Monte dei Paschi di Siena and other banking institutions require our system to equip itself with all the instruments aimed at protecting accountants. However, the world of cooperative credit needs an additional thought. I come from a land, the Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, where cooperative credit is a reality that has its roots in history, which has contributed decisively to the redemption and growth of a territory in the past among the poorest in Italy and which, still today, is a fundamental reference point for the entrepreneurial fabric, for families and for volunteering. Because cooperative credit, with its roots, has fostered social cohesion and still serves as a supplement to a whole range of services in those places where post offices and other essential services have failed. To give the right size, just look at the numbers: in Trentino, on a population of 537,000 inhabitants, the cooperative credit boasts 127,000 members, almost 3,000 employees, 41 rural coffers and 365 branches distributed throughout the provincial territory. 28 percent of the population over the age of eighteen is a member, 39 percent of the Trentino families have used a credit from the rural coffers, as well as 50 percent of the farms. In addition, the Trentino rural coffers account for almost 50% of business funding and 64% of those for families. The Trentino cooperative credit district, in the last six years, has paid to the State 1,066 million euros of taxes and has donated, between 2009 and 2014, more than 115 million euros for social interventions in favour of the community, which have concerned culture, school and training, young people, sport and assistance. Moreover, the protection of savers is a question that was raised in Trentino forty-two years ago, with the birth, in February 1974, of the Central Cassa delle casse rurale Trentino SpA, which collected the 133 rural coffers then operating, just to cope with the difficulties that the individual coffers could have encountered. Since then, all the crises in Trentino credit have been covered and amortized by the Central Bank, which has never weighed on the other realities of Italian cooperative credit. This long premise, ladies and gentlemen, seemed to me to be necessary not so much to exalt the system of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol but to point out to this House, and to the Government in particular, that where there is a reality with established traditions of good functioning of the system, it is necessary to intervene with great caution. The rural coffers of Trentino and the Central Bank, as I reiterated in November in a long letter to Minister Padoan, paid a very high price for the rescue of the four banks: well 25 million euros paid in a few days. Although I understand the reasons of the Government, I do not hide that this measure was for us a cause of great suffering for the way in which it intervened on a system like the one in Trentino that has its strong specificity and that has always been one of the cornerstones of our autonomy. We do not want to call into question the sacrosanct principle for which accountants of the four banks were to be protected, but rather the way in which all this materialized. First of all, I would like to stress the fact that the Trentino rural coffers will not be able to use the national fund one day, not being recognized, because of the small size, as banks of public interest. But I would also like to stress the scale of the amounts requested. There are institutions that had losses of EUR 10 million which were asked for one million for the rescue of the other four. And there are others that were active and that have ended up at a loss with the really paradoxical situation, that now all are called to a new intervention at local level to help those rural coffers that, with the disbursement of the end of the year, have gone into difficulties. I really hope that such an unjust situation will not happen again. At the same time, it seems necessary to emphasize that, in its overall system, the decree-law in conversion, as it has been corrected, nevertheless has the merit to take into account the specificity of the Italian system, avoiding contamination with models such as the French and Dutch, which have little to do with the needs of our credit. It should first be noted that a rule has been introduced to protect the indivisibility of the assets of those cooperative credit banks which intend to entrust their banking activities to a public limited company. Just as we believe that enough reasonable thresholds have been set for the establishment of the cooperative banking group (s) with regard to the exit from the system for those banks which, having 200 million assets, intend to take this path. I also underline the norm of the territorial subgroups that reflect and value the relevant cooperative presences that operate on the national territory, allowing to organize vast areas of territory without damaging the organic plant belonging to the holding, as the territorial subgroups are required to participate in it. However, with regard to the parent company, the confluence of 365 credit institutions - which by their nature have a mutual aim - in a holding company with a legal nature of public limited liability companies raises some concerns. That is why we believe it is extremely important that special guarantee clauses should be included in the parent company's statutes for the protection of the mutual purpose which lies within the cooperative credit banks which belong to it. The opportunity to attract foreign capital both inside and outside the cooperative movement in a holding company - which for 51% still remains in the hands of cooperative credit banks - must be considered an evolutionary process in order to allow and facilitate access to the venture capital market and the strengthening of assets. Risk profiles for savers can also be developed in this context, when market opening is done without respect for the principle of sound and prudent management. The so-called way out we believe is an institution not worthy of the cooperative system. It is frankly a mistake that could be avoided, as other colleagues said earlier. The corrections that have been made to us mitigate, but they do not entirely solve the problem. Another aspect that is particularly important to us and on which it will be important to intervene is the possibility of predicting that the tax benefits of the activity carried out by the rural coffers will remain in the territory of which I am direct expression. It is not possible to imagine a different configuration as those communities and territories that produce wealth would be depleted, with the effort of all customers and all members. As I have already said, we take note of the significant corrections that have been made, and here I must give credit to Deputy Minister Morando who has taken care of them. But we remain absolutely convinced, and historical budgetary data are there to confirm the validity of our position, which was much better, beyond the configuration of the territories on which they operate, to allow groups that have shown economic stability to be able to maintain their operational autonomy, rather than put them under a single national hat. As autonomyists, as local institutions and as a parliamentary delegation we have moved in a compact and in keeping with the cooperative credit, managing to achieve significant results, such as that which, in article 37- bis amending the single bank text, provides for the cooperative credit banks of the Autonomous Provinces the possibility of establishing autonomous cooperative banking groups, as well as the possibility that the Minister can establish the modalities and criteria to ensure the recognition and the safeguard of the linguistic and cultural peculiarities of the cooperative credit banks of the Regions with special statutes and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. What I would like to make clear to this House is that in our territory the cooperative system - as I have had the opportunity to experience personally even during my term as provincial and regional councillor for cooperation and credit - is one of the peculiar characteristics of our being autonomous. Whether it is the agricultural world, the social system, consumption or credit, the ability to have a system that directly involves people, families and businesses and the responsibility in all fields of economic and social life cannot be considered an anomaly or an annoyance to be eliminated, but it must be seen instead as a great resource and as a model to be assumed for the rest of Italy. For this reason, whenever the principles underlying this system are affected, we are concerned and vindicate the goodness of our history and the validity of our model. I therefore hope that the political commitments made by the Commission, including through the adoption of certain amendments and the demands of the Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol parliamentary delegation, will be respected and that the territorial subgroups will be given the right degree of autonomy. In particular, I would like to thank Deputy Minister Morando, but also Secretary Baretta, who listened to our requests and who, in particular the Deputy Minister, partly transposed them. I believe that the objective must be a solid system, sufficiently capitalised, which intends to protect savings as a maintenance of a strong link with the territory and - allow me - also as a strong demonstration of democracy, because rural banks and cooperative credit banks are still managed by the members and each head is worth a vote. Co-operative credit was also created to carry out a social function and must always be brought back to this mission, with the loss of a heritage of values, responsibility and protagonism of the territories, to which it would be absurd to have to give up. [[Applause from Senator Berger]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u114	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u115	Mr President, we are holding a general debate which, as everyone knows, will have the vote of confidence in the measure as an example, so without any possibility of directing, through the debate, the decisions of the rapporteur and the Government to accept amendments, which have been tabled by the parliamentary groups in view of the possible improvement of the measure. We must start from this, because, if we were to make a general intervention on the basis of the discussion of the amendments and therefore also of the possible acceptance of the improvements proposed by us, we would try to explain what the content of the amendments are, why we are asking for those amendments and what their purpose is. On the other hand, since this possibility is not there, or we do, as some do, a thank-you speech, or we do, like others, a critical intervention. I say this because I have some difficulty. I do not think this measure is bad: I think it has certainly useful aspects, which have also been requested by the stakeholders and the system of cooperation; I think that building a wider dimension is functional to increase the ability to be on the market, especially in support of the enterprise and the small and medium-sized enterprise present on the territory, in areas certainly important such as crafts, the organization of services and agriculture; I think that, in some ways, it has great limits on the solidity of the system identified, especially because of the so-called way out, that is, the possibility of exit (I believe that this is a criticism that was the basis of some attempts to correct that they wanted to bring also to the Senate). Having said that, it remains a matter which is before the eyes of all of us: the choice to operate by chapters, not having the picture of the text. We are addressing the issue of savings and credit - because the financial system has these two cornerstones - with separate chapters, as if we were to build a system with watertight parts. Instead, the financial system of savings and credit is unique, it has its own uniqueness; it is articulated in a different way, it acts on the market in a different way, it has different cultural and social references, but it is one, a single system. Since this is the case, we would have expected that the measures that are now in the spotlight, from time to time promoted by decree-laws with an urgent nature, would instead have been the subject of an initiative, perhaps of the Government, organic. Take care: the distance between one measure and the other is not so great that it does not make possible the more transparent and more coherent path of a single measure, structured in an effective way for each aspect and allowing for a more direct understanding, not only by the experts, but above all by the citizens. Citizens feed the system with their deposits; in our banks we have to finish all salaries and pensions; each of us has an ATM. The savings, deposit and availability of banks and the financial system are made by the systematic contributions of citizens, workers and business citizens. Above all they must then understand how the system works; instead we systematically dismember it. It is not, in fact, an episodic fact or an urgent need for intervention. No: it is a choice; a wrong choice, because it raises suspicions, creates doubts, advances the possibility that doubts are expressed by individuals, even non-nationals, even foreigners, who have an interest in weakening our financial system. It is these days - as we want to call it - that it is a dense and systematic criticism that comes about the solidity of the national banking system by listed international newspapers. Precisely for this reason and for all the events that preceded this and other measures that had to be taken (or that have followed other measures that have been adopted), we should have had the courage to say: this is the framework rule, this is the framework within which we move, perhaps even later, with individual measures or regulatory adjustment measures. Unfortunately, this road is not chosen and, consequently, also a good thing is judged in different ways. I have heard the reference banks of my Region, which are not many (it is two banks: one is located in the Agro of Arborea and the other in Cagliari), which give a positive judgment, removed the criticism that there is about what is said before. However, the citizens and not even those closest to those credit institutions are not aware of this, because - unfortunately - this game is managed in a non-transparent way and without an explanation, even with the regulatory measures, of the framework. That is to say, our financial system must take on this dimension and have these qualities; these are the subjects in the field; for these types of subjects these particular possibilities are provided for, for others these others; the rules of control, verification and attention are these; the role of the Bank of Italy is this. In other words, everything must be done within a framework that everyone understands, because banks are the custodians of all our savings and also of all our passenger deposits, that is, those that come with salaries and that, throughout the month, allow the citizens who work and their families to live. That's the criticism I'm just making. I would have liked to focus on the amendments and how to improve the measure, but I will certainly do so when this matter comes back to the attention of the House, perhaps with another measure which - I hope - this time does not have the form of the urgent decree and with the possibility of a vote which - I hope - will not be trustworthy, because - unfortunately - it is precisely because of what, even in this case, will be forced to vote in the opposite direction. [[Applause from Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u116	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u119	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I think it is right to bring to the attention of this House a problem which concerns in particular the small centres and municipalities of the disadvantaged and mountainous areas, which are once again faced with difficulties resulting from the reduction of the postal service. It is these days the publication in our local press of the news that, especially in the small communities of Belluno and Polesine, a change will take place that will further weaken the postal service through the adoption of an alternative delivery mode. It is expected, in fact, the delivery of the mail three days in one week and two days in the next, in alternate way. Basically, five days of delivery are expected within two weeks. It really seems absurd and paradoxical to us that a reduction in the service of this type is achieved in areas that already have difficulties in subsistence and have suffered cuts in post offices, time reductions, especially during the summer period, and even a rationalization that has broken the social fabric of services, causing difficulties and discomfort to the population. We believe that this is really unacceptable. It is true that all this happens in accordance with the AGCOM and that therefore there are conventions, but we believe - and I have put questions in this sense to the attention of the competent minister and also of the requests for information and meetings in the direction of the Italian Post Office - it is very difficult to survive in areas where the services even more normal and indispensable are reduced or even taken away. There are municipalities that have open lawsuits and appeals with in the TAR of Lazio and that are waiting to save that garrison that is the post office. We believe that this further expansion of rationalization and the reduction of service is really an aggravating factor for these municipalities, which, among other things, are located in the most disadvantaged areas of Veneto, which are small and need this service. The delivery every other day was seen not only by the population but also by the unions as a clear difficulty to manage the whole. They will then be secured with a fast mailman form the delivery of the priority mail and - apparently - the newspapers. This is questionable because in some municipalities - I confirm it also for my own - this does not happen and the newspapers are postalized in the reference newsstand. At this point we will have services called Posta1 or Posta 4, which will have a more or less rapid delivery (about four working days) paying two extra euros per shipment or 95 cents instead of 80. Only by paying can one have a service that is due; we believe it to be truly unfair. This innovation of the postal service goes to impoverish and impoverish territories that already suffer from this situation, especially mountain areas like ours. They are weighing down an already fragile situation. We call for the competent minister to take charge of a situation which, moving forward, will involve more and more municipalities by resetting a fundamental service. Let us remember that post offices, since we are talking about banks, also offer a storage service for older people. So let's not take out these services.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u122	DE POLI (AP) (NCD-UDC). Mr President, I would like to put to your attention and to the attention of the Italian citizens a matter that is particularly dear to me. Many times in this House we have been talking about the environment and the security of the territory. These are issues that I know that this Government has on its agenda and that, thanks also to the contribution of Minister Galletti, it considers of fundamental importance. From this Assembly today I want to launch an SOS that concerns the river ecosystem of Brenta, in Veneto, in a territory included in several municipalities of Padua, including Carmignano di Brenta, Fontaniva, Cittadella and many others. In this area, work has been started for days for the realization of new wells for the hydropotable supply that are realized under the direction of the Veneto Region. In construction sites a reduction of forest area is being made in areas with hydraulic constraint. They are cutting the plants and then proceeding, in a second phase, with the works for the realization of the wells. I asked the Minister for the Environment - whom I have put a parliamentary question at this time - for the Government to take a clear position on the matter, considering that these works started ignoring a programme agreement and, above all, considering that by a decree the Region has ruled out any verification in terms of environmental impact assessment, being the Brenta river of national competence. The concerns expressed by local citizens and administrators and the criticisms - which, among other things, are bipartisan and come also from representatives of the League, which leads the Veneto Region - cannot be ignored or underestimated. We ask the Region not to become so invasive, that it risks seriously devastating, from an environmental point of view, the river Brenta. I asked Minister Galletti and the Government first of all whether they are aware of these problems and whether they do not consider it appropriate to intervene in the relevant fora, putting in place actions useful for the protection of such an important ecosystem. Defend the Brenta, defend our river! The government stops a real work of environmental devastation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u123	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-603.ana.u124	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, April 6, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.50 p.m.
