ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation, on the implementation of the new code of procurement and on problems related to the port system and maritime transport, to which the minister of infrastructure and transport will respond, Dr. Delrio. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions on the implementation of the new procurement code. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u6	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Minister, on 19 April the new procurement code was published, and thus entered into force, a particularly long-awaited and relevant reform. We know that there is still a need for implementing decrees, some at the head of ANAC, others at the head of its Ministry. We would therefore like to know at what point is the writing work of these important decrees. From the point of view of merit, since there has been an assessment by the Government, when issuing the decree, of the opinion of the parliamentary committees - of course totally legitimate - we would like to know his opinion on the subject of the application of the maximum decrease, that is, on the threshold of the million under which the maximum decrease can be applied. In addition, we would like to have an assessment on the issue of external committees which, within the text, have remained two different voices - the obligation to use over the million and above the five million, as per the European directive - to understand whether there is a willingness on the part of the Ministry to provide clarification on the subject. We would also like to have an evaluation of the issue of motorway concessions and the use of project financing as an instrument for the renewal of these concessions, which had been assessed as not feasible by Parliament. We would like to know the Ministry's direction on this front, given the text that came out of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u9	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, Article 178 of the new Procurement Code stipulates that, for motorway concessions which expire by April 2018, the tendering procedure should be initiated as soon as possible. The Piedmont concession of the ATIVA expires in only three months and the Turin-Piacenza in a year. The procedures, therefore, should have already been initiated for some time, since it takes about two years to reach the end, and every day of implied extension determined by this delay fruit to the dealer - as happens, it is the same for the two - half a million extra profits. Then I ask you when the races for these two routes will be called. With regard to Article 183, the Senate and Chamber Commissions had asked to include the exclusion of the application of the so-called project financing for the renewal of concessions, because there is no plan to renew a concession, unless it is used in an instrumental way. Does the fact that the Government has disregarded the almost unanimous opinion of both Commissions mean that it intends to apply this article? Does it intend to apply it also to the two concessions that I mentioned earlier, virtually canceling the races, because the other two concessions in expiration were, in fact, renewed with the in house method, moreover used improperly? I am referring to the Brenner motorways and the Venetian highways. You yourself have repeatedly stated that, for the renewal of concessions, the invitation to tender must be the rule and not the exception. For now we have only seen exceptions and then we would like to see the rule at least once, Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u12	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Minister, in Part III of the new Procurement Code, Articles 164 et seq., concession contracts have been regulated, on the basis of the provisions of Directive 2014/23/EU. A particular transitional regime is foreseen for expired motorway concessions, i.e. for which the deadline is 24 months after the date of entry into force of the new framework, in order to proceed to custody according to public evidence procedures. Well, the Brescia-Padova motorway was granted in 1956. The expiry of the concession has been extended several times and with the 2007 Convention it would be further extended until 31 December 2026, in function, however, of the realization of the Valdastico Nord, whose definitive plan would have had to be approved, however, by 30 June 2013, and we are in 2016. On 16 May 2016, you, Minister, stated that the agreement was reached and that Valdastico will be made, but not the motorway, but an infrastructure corridor of interconnection between Trentino and Veneto. In this way, confirming the concession of Italy's busiest motorway without public tender, over one billion euros of public assets will go to private individuals and the tolls for citizens will continue to be very high. In the light of the above, it is asked: firstly, what are the reasons and the political opportunity that would lead to confirmation of the extension of the Brescia-Padova motorway without competition procedure; secondly, on the basis of which the concessionary company from 2013 continues to exercise the concession of the Brescia-Padova motorway in the absence of approval of the planned final plan of the Valdastico Nord.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u15	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Minister, the new procurement code has come into force after a kind of anxiety that this Government has accustomed us to, in order to meet deadlines without adequate time for metabolism, with the real risk of disorientation and the need for technical extensions. However, it is a new era for public works, stubborn and courageous in the utopia of ending the many systems in stocking that have damaged our country. It is in the light of the new code, therefore, and of the powers conferred to the National Authority anti-corruption, in the person of the current president Raffaele Cantone, that I want to know how the Government intends to face the multiple criticalities of the contracts already in existence and in course of work relative to the field of the transports, that through various questions, still inevaso, I have submitted to the attention of the Executive. These are specific focussing on key guidelines for the country's mobility. I quote a few. And I have continued to denounce, as the Italian Left, in the Committee on Public Works, the ruin of the forty-year history of waste and design errors concerning the eternal construction site of the Salerno-Reggio Calabria motorway, within the framework of the general hydrogeological breakdown that risks sinking the country. And I have reiterated, in the light of the collapses and fatal accidents that have occurred, the need for safety measures and definitive solutions for the construction site. There are no longer any questions I have put on the endless issue of the Tirrenic motorway, on which the government is niche and is not responding. On 18 February 2015, during a hearing in the Commission on public works, precisely on the reform of the Procurement Code, I asked President Cantone to focus on a series of opacity. On 10 February I had already put an urgent question to the Commission to find out what criteria the then Minister Lupi intended to proceed with the implementation of the project, in the light of the open European infringement procedure for irregularities in the Convention between ANAS and the Tyrrhenian Highway Company. In recent months, I have put this question again and put a new question. On the Tyrrhenian Sea, as on the collapses of the Salerno-Reggio Calabria, I think it is necessary to apply a system intervention, which puts in a non-temporaneous way to focus certain events, often disastrous.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u18	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Minister, I am here today to ask you for assurances and certainties. The certainty we have about the reform of the procurement code - and we have been easy prophets - is that from its immediate application we would certainly have had problems. And the problems we are experiencing are not only us, but also the operators, on this complex legislation which is shown - as we stated in the last passage in this House - unfortunately in its criticality, given - let me say - the bad work done in the other branch of Parliament. We want once again, Minister, to be proactive in this reform of the procurement code, because we are aware that it is important for our country. And that's why last week the Joint Public Works Commissions of the House and Senate, meeting in the House, gave themselves a working time, saying that from June we will go ahead with hearings, to make adjustments to this legislation. The question is as follows: will the Government, you and the Ministry take into account the work that the Commissions will do? That is the question that we have asked ourselves not only of the opposition, but also of the majority. We do not want a last-minute measure, with the sword of the possible vote of confidence and the haste on the heads of Members and senators, to arrive, as at the last reading. The haste has unfortunately generated what we see. We want to be cooperative, but we want reassurance. I would remind you that this was the case at the first meeting. Will the government listen to us and consider the work that Chamber and Senate will do in a joint way?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u21	Mr Bruni (CoR). Minister, I too come back to the issue of the new procurement code, approved - in my opinion - with excessive haste, so much so that it was immediately marked by the failure to transpose the European directive within the maximum period of the two-year period; it entered into force without a vacacy legislation - this is another problem pointed out by the Council of State - and it presents a number of formal errors, with quotes of articles that are not there and that need to be corrected. To all this I would add what has already been said before about the excessive possibility of referring to the races to the maximum decrease with the threshold up to one million, which constitute 80%. And, with regard to the most economically advantageous offer, the participation of committee members by lot over the EUR 5.2 million chosen on the DAC list is quite reductive. Finally, the legal rating would only cover companies with a turnover of more than two million. The question I ask you is as follows: the implementing decrees, which are fifty and not one, as for the De Lise code, when will they be issued? And the corrections - as Senator Crosio has done before - when can be made to these critical issues, which have already been highlighted in about one month of application of the Code of Procurement? Finally, I would like to ask you to clarify the hole that concerns the legal rating for companies under two million turnover, which is most of those that have to do with public procurement. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Delrio.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u22	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the honourable Members who have asked questions. As you know, we worked together on the procurement code and we felt together that it was a great opportunity for the country and one of the most important reforms we have produced, so I thank the Senate and the House of Deputies very much for their valuable work. I believe that we have really produced a revolution in a sector that is worth 15% of Italian GDP. Wherever I go and think wherever you go you too - as you well know - there are works expected for thirty, forty or fifty years. To date, there was no regulation of concessions and therefore no transposition. This is a code which had an initial implementing regulation four years after its entry into force: that is the point. The implementing regulation was only one, but it was issued four years later. Therefore, I believe that we have really done a great deal of work on simplification, reduction and simplification, and we have incorporated in 220 articles the more than 600 articles that were previously in force, and three European directives are added here. In England they used 100 articles to transpose only three European directives. We have, therefore, made an effort of simplification never seen until now and consciously chosen to issue acts implementing in terms of soft law, such as the guidelines of the National Anti-corruption Authority (NAAC), the decrees of the Ministry and the acts that go to clarify, first of all, the times. It is true that there is a mass of decrees to be clarified, but seven guidelines of the DAC have already been published, for consultation, on the website and three more will arrive very soon. A constant work is carried out together with the president of the National Anti-corruption Authority. Ten guidelines are already in place and we will certainly respect all our applications for the ninety-day deadline, which means that, by the end of the summer, our decrees will be enacted and, therefore, the most important body of transposition and implementation is in the process of advanced preparation. There are no gaps, because every article, where it needs an implementing measure, explicitly refers to the fact that, until there is a decree, the rules will remain in force. This is written at the end of each article, just to avoid normative holes. As you know, the code declines the planning, programming, design and selection of the works and, therefore, their revision; it archives the objective law; it is based on the principles of the quality and qualification of the contracting stations, the qualification of the operators, the qualification of the commissioners and especially the centrality of the project. And I make this premise because, in some questions from the interrogating senators, the subject of the greatest decrease has been raised. The code makes a precise choice and says that the most correct one is the negotiated procedure of the most economically advantageous offer and leaves one option, under the million euros: it is therefore a faculty and not an obligation. To Senator Esposito, who has asked what intentions he has regarding the maximum decrease, I reply that, in this regard, I am going to stimulate the local authorities, the Regions and the Municipalities, who also in their comments have asked to maintain this threshold and indeed to raise it, and to reason with them - I hope to be able to subscribe soon to the protocols of understanding - in order to minimize the use of the maximum decrease, even under the million euros. In the first application we left the threshold initially chosen, but we progressively count on convincing all the administrations, through administrative work, that it is possible to award the majority of the calls for tenders with the most economically advantageous offer. This is possible and I did so as mayor years ago: we were awarding 80% of the races through this procedure. It is true - as Senator Bruni said - that they represent 80% of the volume of the races, but they also represent 30% of the amount of the races themselves. We must therefore be careful, because there is also an issue related to the amount. In principle, this is an irreversible and progressive choice. On the other hand, I would like to stress once again that the maximum decrease is much less dangerous at the time when an executive project is competing. It is clear that with the executive project the punctuality of the forecasts and the scissors in order to make wrong forecasts are minimal. On the other hand, it is clear that, if you do a race to the maximum decrease with non-complete projects, you can observe phenomena of macroscopic alteration of the race, as happened with drops that reach 50 percent. As far as the tendering committees are concerned, I have a point to make. We wrote that, under the threshold, contracting stations can choose components. The DAC will soon point out that this does not mean that they choose the whole Commission. And that was the spirit - in my opinion - that correctly interpreted your demands, even during the debate. I come to the question of the certainties that we give each other. I do not hide that the procurement code is currently not perfect, because of the complexity and importance of the subject and the large number of issues that have had to be condensed. However, I think it is an excellent job and we have also transposed the European directive in time, because it applies, for the purposes of the deadline, to the time when it is signed by the President of the Republic, and not the time when it is published. I believe it is an advantage that the Italian Government respects the deadlines and a factor of seriousness. We made it in time. As for certainties and problems, Senator Crosio called us to keep a dialogue open and to keep in mind the work you will do. Certainly we follow him with great interest, as we have done before. It is clear that the government then took its legitimate decisions within it, which may not have been fully in line with the latest suggestions. However, there is a work of monitoring and progressive correction to the text, because it contains errors. It's definitely not a perfect job, and we're here to say that we need to improve it together, because the contract code belongs not to the government but to the country. The more appropriate it is, the better. So, your work will be followed absolutely. The Government is ready to listen to and accept your demands, which have always made it possible to enrich the discussion. As for the theme of project financing, Senator Cappelletti reminds me of the theme of Brescia-Padua. This is a very simple matter, Senator. Brescia-Padova has been granted an extension from the European Union until 2026. Therefore, its concession has not been extended, but is in place until 2026. The European Union, by granting such an extension, said that the concession could be revoked in the event of no solution being found to the construction of the Valdastico. The construction of the Valdastico, that is the corridor that connects the province of Trento to Veneto, is a project for which my predecessor had asked two years of time (2013-2015) to the European Union, in order to prepare the understanding with the Region and the Province of Trento. Having not been allowed this time, I asked to be able to continue the discussion and so we got the substantial green light to build a corridor that - like all the works I intend to promote - for which there is no overdesign. It is useless to make toll motorways with six lanes, three per direction, for the overdesign, behind which there are interests not proper to the country. We have put forward a proposal for a corridor, which will be analysed in its layout and its characteristics following an approach of sobriety of costs and immediate feasibility. There was therefore no extension and we do not intend to grant it through strange procedures such as project financing to ATIVA or Turin-Piacenza. Procedures have already begun to instruct these practices. As Senator Malan rightly points out, I defend the fact that races are the rule. So it's written in the code and we have to follow it. Different was the issue of concession in house, which is a faculty that the European Union grants and which we have also used to heal and make regular some situations completely confused. And, therefore, we have asked the European Union for authorisation, since, in fact, of those motorways - as you know better than I do - in any case, the vast majority of shareholders are public. They were therefore not motorways operated by private individuals, but by public administration, but there is a situation that I do not reconstruct here for problems of time. The concession in house is legitimate, but the choice of races is the rule and we continue in this direction. Similarly, it is not excluded from the code the theme of the use of project financing instead of the concession, but it is certainly not possible - and the Ministry says it very clearly - to avoid the competition, to ask for an extension of the existing concession, because for us it would not be correct. Concessions are running out, and so we must proceed quickly. Senator Cervellini underlined the disastrous state of Italian public works and I agree with him. I believe that the contract code allows us to take a significant step forward. We know that this is a complete change of horizon. A preliminary draft for a motorway cannot be put forward without making geological and seismic assessments: it is something that shouts revenge, because obviously the presumption of costs will be totally wrong, since the prospects from the point of view of State intervention will probably multiply for years and we will have no certainty of the time of realization or of the costs. And that is precisely why Parliament and the Government felt the need to promote a reform of the sector, in order to avoid past mistakes and to close the objective law that - as the report recently presented to the House - has not produced the expected results. We are pleased that in this two-year period the government has managed to increase, with a timely administrative action on schools and railways, the public calls by 46 percent: if I remember correctly, we have managed to increase the total amount by 18 billion. We are therefore focused on the implementation of the works. But, in order for this to happen, the works must be properly set up. Moreover, as you know, we have made available to everyone, on the page called Opencantieri of the website of the Ministry, the exact state of implementation of every work, and we are updating also those relative to the ports and the airports, of which you can verify in transparency the realization. Similarly, I believe that the code has made a great contribution by introducing public debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u25	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Minister, thank you and, as far as I am concerned, I am pleased with your answers, which have been clear, clear and also comforting. The only invitation I give you is to make a careful evaluation also with the DAC of the external commissions, in order to find the most stringent formula for them to be used, because they are the element that will give the maximum guarantee of transparency also in the application of the system of the most economically advantageous offer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u28	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I am pleased with your reply to the two sections close to the deadline. You have made a commitment to initiate the procedure, on the contrary, you say that it is already in place, and so I shall take it up. In parliaments that respect the Minister's word, it is very important for both sides and we hope to be a respected Parliament. As far as the in-house trusts are concerned, on this and on other subjects, something may be granted by the European Union, but we must first of all give the Italian citizens more account than the European bureaucrats: if one thing suits the Italian citizens, let us do it even if the European bureaucrats do not allow it. In addition, races according to the procurement code is convenient, even when the alternative is to give them to a participant very close to the government parties.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u31	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Minister, we are not at all satisfied with the answer. And I am referring of course to the one relating to the Padua-Brescia section of the A4. In the public interest, the concession had to be revoked, as the condition of the construction of the motorway had failed. In this way, the billionaire value of the concession would have ended up in the coffers of the State rather than in the pockets of the private individuals. Mr. Minister, the damage is then added to the mockery. In this way, in fact, it is rewarded a society that has an objective responsibility, albeit - I emphasize - not criminal, of a huge environmental disaster: I refer to the burial of 150,000 cubic meters of toxic industrial waste-nocive buried under the road covering of the Valdastico Sud. Such industrial waste will threaten the health of thousands of citizens for years and years to come.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u34	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr Minister, your answer is significant and it is absolutely necessary to take note of it. I'll give you a suggestion that's not a challenge. We use, in your absolute freedom, a construction site, perhaps one that has not yet introduced the vices of the past, and I suggested in my question some elements on which to focus attention. I say to you, with the analysis tools, to identify a practical and concrete initiative. I would suggest - for example - the Tirrenic motorway because it does not have a high level of compromise. I understand the complexity of other historical situations on which, even from the engineering-architectonic point of view, it is necessary to return for the damages - I hope no irreversible - that would contradict some innovative vocations contained in the code of contracts.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u37	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Minister, I appreciate your intellectual honesty. We have a firm point: we need to improve the procurement code, because as it is, it can certainly be improved. I'm glad you're reassured. We will work elbowly with the Government and the will to reopen the Parliament's credit line to the Government could also work because this time Chamber and Senate will work in the same room, so the transition from one branch to the other will not give us the problems we have on the procurement code, which were generated precisely by the various passages. I am quite satisfied at this point. We know each other, but we're still gonna be breathing down her neck, because we appreciate her intellectual honesty. We would, however, like the entire Government - I repeat, the whole Government - to maintain this attitude and allow us to work towards it. Let's give it another shot. We trust you more than the Prime Minister, from this point of view.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u40	Mr Bruni (CoR). Minister, I take note of your answers and point out that, with regard to the issue of corporate rating, the situation should be better studied because either general criteria apply to all large and small companies or the threshold of two million for legal rating remains, which is complicated enough to implement. I would like to take further note of your statement on the implementation of the works, which is the Government's objective. In this regard, I think that the corrections and urgent changes reported on the procurement code must be put into practice in order to avoid disasters such as that - in order to come to my territory - which has recently been dealt with, namely the Maglie-Leuca, which cannot be a road contracted to two undertakings at the same time, or rather with judgments of the opposing administrative judiciary, leaving such an important territory without a major road artery.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u41	Let us now pass to the questions on the problems relating to the harbour system and the marine transport, to which Minister Delrio will answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u44	ORRU' (PD). Minister, I welcome the draft legislative decree on the reorganization, rationalization and simplification of the rules on port authorities referred to in Law No 84 of 1994/1994, which we have just incardinated into the Commission public works for the opinion. This reform fits perfectly in the furrow of the season of reforms that the Government is carrying on, responding to the precise necessity to allow to our Country, also in topic of portualità, to pick up the opportunities of increase and development that it deserves, contrasting the loss of competitiveness that our ports are suffering regarding those European. There would, however, be some issues not included in the scheme but which appear to be relevant. In this case, in order to correspond in the best possible way to the delineated institutional architecture that sees the transition from port authority today mainly mono port of call to authority of harbour system mainly multi port of call, in our opinion it would be opportune that the ports of the chief town municipalities such as Trapani, Oristano, Crotone, Vibo Valentia, Barletta, Pesaro and Pescara, currently not center of harbour authority, they would see an own representation inside of the management committee, in order not to give the feeling of an expropriation of the port of own territory, but to the contrary in order to be able to benefit maximum. Of course, all possible implications should be assessed and envisaged, including a possible weighing of the role that the representative of the territory would play in the Management Committee. In this respect, Minister, I would ask you what your intentions are and whether measures are currently being considered to deal with what you have requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u47	GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, we have at this moment in discussion - as you have just said - the provision of reform and reorganization of the whole portualità. I also see the rapporteur here on the measure in the Commission, Senator Filippi. This is a reform that we have been waiting for a long time. It passes from the port authorities mono port of call to port authorities of harbour system, that it means to look with attention to the territories, to the intermodalità, to the connection of the goods and the passengers. However, the simple reorganization of the harbour authorities does not solve the problem of our Country to properly connect the last railway mile with the port or the airport, with the roads or with the interporto, and to make our ports competitive with investments that concern the docks, but also the fishing and, that is, the correct dredging and the depth of our ports. We ask you therefore: downstream of this fundamental and important provision - we will accelerate it for the approval - the Government makes available important economic resources because then the reorganization of the harbour authorities translates into infrastructures, answers and competitiveness in the country?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u50	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Minister, we are in a phase of total modification of the system that regulates the ports, is for the regulation contained in the law n. 84 of 1994 (whose iter has begun and, I hope, finally arrives to its completion), is for the schema of legislative decree on the reorganization of the harbour authorities (Act of the Government subjected to parliamentary opinion, n. 303), on which the Council of State has provided an opinion that changes in substantial way points of fundamental importance for the future of the Italian harbour system. How do you intend to transpose and at what time the exceptions raised by the Council of State and, in particular, on European invitations to tender for concessions, rather than the public evidence procedure which - according to the Council of State and as I have always supported - leaves too much discretion to the port authorities? What could happen to all the extensions of concessions recently issued, with ease and in an inappropriate way from some Italian harbour authorities also for decades, while you were issuing the regulation for the reorganization of the ports, ingessando a part of the Italian system of the ports, and to the postponement until three years of the amalgamations of some authorities that you did not want - I share your position - but for which it has had to adapt to the Conference of the Regions and then, fortunately, have been challenged by the Council of State? Finally, I would like to know the criteria of choices, competences and consequent nominations of the presidents of the harbour authorities and in which times, also in order to close the sterile controversies on the lack of management of the ports from the commissioners, completely undeserved and instrumental, carried on from who would like only easy extensions without passing from contests. As I have always said, this, fortunately, is now clarified by the authoritative opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u53	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Minister, I would like to know whether the Government has - and, if so, what - a strategic plan for supporting the development of our ports. I refer, in particular, to the port of Genoa, for two simple reasons. As you know, the doubling of the Suez Canal has created extremely special conditions for the transport of goods. In addition, next Wednesday you will be, together with the Prime Minister, at the opening of the gallery in AlpTransit, a great work that - please remind the Prime Minister - has been done not by us, but by the Swiss, which will have the potential to convey to our country up to 700 trains a day (so is reported in the project). We know that the Helvetic Government has repeatedly tried to stimulate our country so that Genoa can be the direct terminal of this great work for the transport of goods on iron. We could thus become truly competitive compared to Rotterdam, because at this point, with a Suez Canal so performing, bringing goods from Genoa, in a particular way towards the East, it will certainly be more convenient than starting from Rotterdam, Antwerp or other city. I'm asking you if there is a strategic plan. This is a unique opportunity to relaunch and develop and we receive international incentives to move in this direction. It would be interesting to understand whether, on the part of you and the Government, there is the will to relaunch the idea with great ambition, and the project is ambitious. I believe that in this game our country can be placed, internationally, with extremely ambitious visions, because there are really the conditions to create such potential.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u56	Mr Bruni (CoR). Minister, I would like to start with the reform of Law No 84 of 28 January 1994, cited in several speeches. You can really get to create integrated logistics areas that then - it has been made first reference to the last mile - create the conditions to realize an intermodalità. This is necessary if we think of the data present on the website of the Government, supplied from the Department for the programming and the coordination of the economic politics, that they show a remarkable decrease of the harbour traffics in the Italian ports from 2007 on. The many ports of our Country, the few works (especially in the last decade), the problem of authorizations and extraordinary maintenances (it has made first mention of the backdrops, the dredgings) and a whole series of unresolved questions make our harbour system less and less competitive. My question is about Puglia, which is experiencing a problem of economic suffering for the crises in the industrial areas of Brindisi and Taranto. How does the Government intend to valorize the existing port infrastructures, in the face of works that have not been realized in these years? Think of the dredging of the backdrops of the port of Taranto, while all the political debate has focused only on the number of the harbour authorities and on where to place them. In this sense, I ask the Government to know with which resources and with how it wants to intervene in order to valorize the existing harbour infrastructures, both the great ones and the small ones. This is true as a micro example for Puglia, but it can be true for the whole of Italy. I remember that the motorways of the sea were one of the main programs of the Government Prodi in 1996-1998, and still after twenty years not even the first tollgate was realized. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Delrio.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u57	Madam President, I thank you for the opportunity you give me to make the point again on the system of the portualità that - as we remember - is also economic: the 8,000 kilometers of Italian coasts are an economic system to all effects. 70% of the goods we import and exit just over 50 enter our ports. It is, therefore, a very relevant system. We have, however, logistic inefficiencies, as both Senator Gibiino and Senator Bruni have remembered; we have a remarkable problem of intermodality and then of corridors, as Senator Crosio recalled. We must therefore have a holistic approach to the problem of the portualità, considering it an economic system, a territorial system, a system of great potentiality of increase, because objectively the transformations in existence, like the doubling of the Suez Canal, give sure great opportunities, that however they must be caught. We still lose over a million containers going to Rotterdam and then going back downstairs, which means we lose resources (in terms of taxes that are not paid) as well as opportunities for development. I am convinced that the sea system is one of the frontiers on which Italy can do more and, for this, we have dedicated immediately to the predisposition of a strategic plan of the portualità and the logistics together. The logistical inefficiencies cost us 40-50 billion, depending on the studies, but the fact of not coordinating, of not having the last railway mile, of not coordinating the corridors, of not making them operational, obviously makes us a weak system. Along with this, it makes us weak administrative inefficiency or excessive bureaucratic-administrative fragmentation. In fact, it must be said that it is not true that the ports lack resources, because they can rely on private resources. However, a central direction of investment has been lacking to prevent duplication, because we cannot - as Senator Filippi often says, and I use a phrase of his - monkey Rotterdam. We must be a widespread Italian system, but a single system, of course. We don't have the big port to focus on, but as a system we have to live and operate. That is why we have strengthened the role of central coordination in the reform. I am thinking of the port of Taranto, a story that I followed closely when I was Undersecretary and that I continued to follow as Minister. The crisis of the port of Taranto is due to the delay in the execution of the investments already authorized and financed; delays of ten, twelve years, in which the terminalista then runs away. In this regard, I give you good news that arrived just yesterday from the port of Taranto: we have begun to have an increase of the traffics of the order of 30 percent, also for the tourist offer. We want the port of Taranto to think about its vocation in terms not only of container of great materials, but also of tourist port, because it is a port of great potentiality. Therefore, we must also coordinate the functions and ensure that ports are multi-function and not single-function, otherwise they risk a lot in a global market where some operators themselves determine the displacement of large quantities of materials. The reform was therefore necessary for the reason that Senator Orrù mentioned earlier, i.e. for the significant loss of competitiveness of the ports. We've coordinated RFI's investments. In the two contracts of program 2015-2016, where we offer to ulterior 17 billion for the development of the railway net, there are investments for almost a billion for the upgrading of the corridors goods, in fact. We have now an 80 percent of the traffic goods on iron regarding - for example - ports like Trieste. So there are no more trucks running around because we have to have the goal - as through the motorways of the sea that we have refinanced with bonus sea - through the bonus iron, the other incentive measure, to carry more and more goods from rubber to iron. Moving at least 30-40 percent of goods from rubber to iron is a strategic goal of the country: it means less congestion, less need of roads; it means following the line of our friends and neighbors, like the Swiss, for which the tunnel system represents in our interlocations an exceptional system integrated with the port of Genoa. And we have been discussing this with the Minister since the moment of my inauguration. We presented just to Genoa the idea to live its port, along with that of Savona, like the entrance of the goods for all the logistic area of the North-West. We have carried out a coordination committee with the three Regions (Liguria, Piedmont and Lombardy) to allow that of the North-West to be a single logistic area, and the same has been done for Puglia. In fact, we have written in the partnership agreement and in the national operational programme that the logistics area of Puglia is an integrated investment system and the European funds will serve to develop these systems. Of course, then, there is the intermodality you have mentioned. As for the last mile infrastructure, the R6 has a last mile infrastructure program; I think of the works that we are doing in Livorno, very important, but also in other ports, like Taranto. These last mile infrastructures are the sign that we think in integrated terms between the various systems: ports cannot plan their investments on their own, living an autonomous life, but they must coordinate with other systems, such as interports, railways and major communication routes. The reform is therefore very important and we have already made considerable progress, such as the simplification of dredging. In addition, with the last decree you are examining, we are heading towards the single administrative control desk, which will combine more than 113 administrative measures and 23 responsible authorities under a single coordination: simplification, therefore. We have promoted the preclearing, that is the clearance at sea: more than 3,500 ships today are cleared directly at sea and this has been much appreciated by the international operators. We have 15 ports that are now preclearing, clearance at sea. We have increased the fast runners, i.e. the corridors where goods travel fast to their destination; I am thinking, for example, of the corridors we have built, railroads and highways, from the ports to the Ikea in Piacenza and the North Warehouse. I believe that the country is on the move, with the measures on dredgings, made together with the Ministry of the Environment, with the administrative simplification and digitalization in charge of the customs, that they have done an extraordinary job, and with the simplification of the governance, with which from the harbour committees we pass to the management committees. Senator Orrù poses a very serious problem: we must not forget the municipalities. We will certainly try to study a mechanism in order to involve them, even if not directly in the management committee, which we want to be streamlined, in any case in a more restricted consultation body. It is right, in fact, that, in the moment in which there are investments in ports that adhere to the harbour authority, these agencies are consulted in advance and there is a mechanism of regulation. But let us not abandon the idea of slim management committees. The current port committees have played an important role and it must not be forgotten that Law No 84 of 1994 has been excellent and has produced excellent results. We must not forget where we start, otherwise we would have needed a very substantial cutting now. In this way, we adapt to the governance of the main European ports and - as Senator Rossi recalled - we also adopt, finally, a regulation of concessions, which had been missing for more than ten years and which was necessary. We have prepared it, we have sent it for comments and it is in the final transposition phase. Of course, there are comments on what has been done, which concern more than clarification than obligations, which aim to clarify the criteria. The concessions, in fact, must be entrusted with transparent criteria and with appropriate publicity. This is the real point of creating legality. It is not conceivable, in fact, that a concession is given free of charge or another one is given for sixty years, without objective criteria. It is a matter that we have really put as one of the initial and most important elements, so much so that we are finally at the end of the debate on the regulation of concessions and we can devote ourselves to a system regulated by the centre in an appropriate manner. Once again, since we are ambitious to have management committees in line with Europe's main port authorities, the criteria are to have competent, capable people and have managerial skills. It is not necessary that they have lived in the port, but it is important that they have managerial skills, because the port is also a great enterprise. And it is clear that for us the procedures of concertation - obviously the understanding with the Regions on this matter is sought - aim simply and exclusively to find the people who have the right characteristics in order to make of a port an opportunity of increase, development and attraction of the investments. The problem, in fact, is certainly public investment, but also the attraction of private investment. We have seen that large companies and large ports attract large private investments and I think of the investments that are being made in Genoa and Trieste. This must be the objective of the Italian ports, with a system that altogether adheres to the spirit of the strategic plan and the implementing decrees that we have put in field; a system that I believe is ready. We hope to be able to develop this economy of the sea, so necessary to promote employment and growth in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u60	ORRU' (PD). Minister, the request we made to you was and is important, precisely in order to ensure that every territorial reality can really be part of this system; a system that we already imagine simplified, because simplification is necessary and indispensable. However, we ask to evaluate this type of proposal more carefully, because however the municipalities also have a slightly wider territorial importance, as well as for the Municipality itself that they represent. So, however, we ask to evaluate it as a committee, because it would be really slim, but in order to be able to do a job of whole and to evaluate everything that is the harbour system, that at this point must not work individually, but - as we have always repeated and we share fully - must make system and represent all the various necessities. We were talking about dredging and other aspects that we know well.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u63	GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). I thank the Minister, because it has shown that there are no public funds to invest immediately, but has transferred today the necessity of an awareness, for which the reform of the portualità must be accompanied by a total direction of all the country system. We realize that a dramatic problem is that of the intermodality and the connection of what comes through the sea in the ports (merche and passengers) and that it must then be transferred by road, iron and so on. Of course, we need an effort from Parliament and the Government, but also an overall effort from private investors, which you mentioned, to make this work. Otherwise, we will lose competitiveness. That extraordinary port of Northern Europe we are talking about, Rotterdam, has 96 kilometers of docks, which are properly connected to a functioning transfer system. This does not happen in Italy. There has certainly been a wrong policy in the past and it seems to me that there is now the will to create a country system that is going in the right direction. In this sense, they reassure me of his words.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u66	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Minister, I am pleased with what you said, although unfortunately the question time obliges us to tighten up very complex issues in a very short time. I would, however, like to add two more points, because perhaps he did not have the opportunity to talk about it. The amalgamation must be done immediately: it is madness to think of delaying the amalgamations. What will happen in those ports that, for three years, know they are at the end of a period? We also fail to integrate the systems, which is the fundamental fact. I speak for example of Genoa-Savona, which is absolutely to be done in the immediate, in my opinion. And I'm glad the State Council said that right now. I would like to say a very brief word about the extraordinary work that the Commissioners are doing (i.e. Admiral Pettorino in Genoa), pulled by the jacket, because it is said that they are doing practically nothing at the moment. That is not true, but it is the lack of regulation and rule that must come that does not allow either them or a president, if there were any, to take decisions. First we do - and this applies to us, to the relevant Commissions, and to the Government - and first we will be able to relax our minds and have equal rules throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u69	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Minister, your answer was a general one, but that's all I expected. It's not a joke, believe me, because the theme is complex. It was enough to say, clear and strong: "Yes, we have a strategic plan for Genoa." I want to subtlely remember that our country is investing 6.2 billion euros on the high capacity Milan-Genoa. What we ask is to have as station of departure the port of Genoa, because it is fundamental. So I want to make three demands. First of all, the Gotthard suppliers are functional to what he said and, therefore, we absolutely need to be vigilant. Secondly, I will support you in case you want to privatise the railways and I will not support your colleague, Minister Padoan, who wants to cash in. Minister, you have the honesty to admit that we must also relaunch the rail system, and that must be a starting point. Thirdly, let us look at ourselves: the network system of our ports can work; but, if there is a competitive port, because there comes the high capacity, it is that of Genoa. We don't have to hide behind a finger. And I do not say that because the other ports are not worthy - I would miss it - but it is a technical matter: Genoa is the starting point of this important rail transport system, which must start from our country and there are the conditions to work on it. We're gonna root for her, keep our breath on her neck.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u72	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, I take note of some of the Minister's statements, which mainly concern the simplification and simplification of procedures, which I believe are some of the causes that have blocked the Italian port system over the last twenty years. Meanwhile I register that, with some intellectual honesty, the Minister has spoken of private capitals, that must be prevailing in order to revive the Italian harbour system. And I think that this will be a problem that will increase the gap between North and South, knowing that the system of high capacity, to which previously referred about Genoa, does not at the moment support the ports of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. So if there is no different economic policy, we will still see an increase in the gap and a lack of diversification. I think about passenger traffic, which in the South could be much more thriving. We think - for example - of the itineraries of the cruise ships, which mainly use as departure and arrival ports those of Northern Italy, while the South is used, en passant, as tourist destination.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u73	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Delrio for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u74	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-636.ana.u75	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 7 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.05 p.m.
