ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. I communicate that, subject to agreement between the Government and the interrogating and interrogating senators, the conduct of the questioning 2-00360 and the questioning 3-02380 is postponed to another session. Therefore the first question will be asked 3-02536 on the spread of the infesting species popillia japonica. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the issue of the spread within our territory of the japonic popillian quarantine pest. In our country the presence of popillia japonica was reported in July 2014 in the Ticino Park, in an area falling between the Lombardy and Piedmont Regions. The relevant regional plant protection services have readily activated to conduct intensive monitoring in the affected areas, both on larvae in the soil and on adults, in order to define the extent of the infestation and to define the priority plant health measures to be implemented. On the basis of the trap capture data located throughout the area, those services have officially established a delimited area, consisting of a haunted area and a surrounding buffer zone, and have started a dissemination activity. In view of the high plant health risk, the issue has also been discussed several times within the National Plant Health Committee, where the plant health measures to be taken as a priority to counter the spread of the insect have been identified, and represented at European level, in particular at the Standing Committee on Plant Health of 27 and 28 October 2014. Therefore, in order to make the discipline uniform throughout the national territory and to prepare a very widespread monitoring in all the Regions, we have also prepared a specific ministerial decree on emergency phytosanitary measures, shared in the National Plant Health Committee that gave the favourable opinion at the session of 24 February 2016. The Ministerial Decree is currently being registered with the Court of Auditors. Specifically, for nursery activities that fall in the infested areas, plant health provisions have been provided for the movement of plants and grassy carpets, in order to avoid the passive transport of insect larvae present in the soil associated with the roots. Moreover, in order to define the most suitable methods of intervention in relation to the size of insect populations in the various areas, it has been agreed with the regions concerned the establishment of a specific technical-scientific working group to which experts will be present, as well as the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, also regional plant protection services and academics. At present, for financial support measures related to the containment of the harmful organism, it is possible to intervene through regional rural development plans, through interventions in accordance with Article 18 of EU Regulation No 1305 of 2013 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (FEARS). In particular, between the types of support that the measure can cover, are previewed, inter alia, the investments for the restoration of the agricultural soil and the productive potential of areas hit by natural disasters, adverse climatic conditions and catastrophic events. I would also point out that the aforementioned regulation (Article 21 (1) (c) and Article 24) also introduces support measures in the forestry field. Therefore, considering that the areas affected by the parasite fall within the protected natural areas included in the Natura 2000 network, such measures could be applied in the present case.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u7	FAVERO (PD). Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, I am completely satisfied with the answer given to all the questions raised by the question put by several colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Ministry not only knows the issue, but is monitoring it also seen the dangerousness of this polyphagus beetle that reproduces with an incredible speed, as evidenced by the data of the Piedmont Region, according to which it has gone from 26,000 adult specimens in 2014 to well 800 million in 2015. I would say, therefore, that this is an emergency taking into account that the most widespread area is that of Ticino, between the airport of Malpensa and Cameri. With a robust disinfestation it would also affect the movements that take place at these airports. The resources used in this situation, which come from Europe and from our planned appropriations, and the inclusion in rural plans, have been indicated. A working group has also been set up which gives results and deals with scientific research. In recent years we have been witnessing, as far as agricultural policies are concerned, an assault on the white weapon of insects that come very often from tropical countries or that are not indigenous, which attack our forests, our orchards and vineyards. The beetle feeds on 300 species; the larvae attack the roots and the adult insect eats the foliage of everything, especially corn, rice, vine, soy and beech. This bug is also very good and really does not miss anything! I thank you for your attention and ask for constant monitoring so that there is no diffusion, as happened for xylella, for the cinipid and for the red awl, which are disappearing because the antagonists have been used or, in some way, is studying and deepening the issue. I hope that this will be resolved in a short time.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u8	The following is the question 3-201928 on the intensification of military activity in Belluno. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u9	In sharing the feeling of concern expressed by the senator in question with the act under discussion, there must be a deep regret here for the incidents which have occurred. In order to enter into the merits of the questions posed, it is specified that the two strong robots mentioned in the act of inspection union, warned on May 11, 2015 in Valbelluna just before 10, can be traced back to the activity of the mission with name "Banshee", composed of two aircraft F16 American, belonging to the 31st flock Fighter Wing, stationed in Aviano. The mission, regularly scheduled and authorized, provided for a training flight. Mission planning excluded activities at a higher speed than the sound and its profile did not include training activities at low altitude. During that flight, an American aircraft unintentionally exceeded the so-called mach 1.0 threshold on two occasions. The landing pilot regularly reported the sonic bang to the Italian and American military authorities. With regard to the further aspects highlighted in the act, it is noted that operating air traffic conducted at very low altitude (BOAT) is specifically regulated by the Directive "Rules of Flight for Operating Air Traffic" of the Air Force Staff. It provides, among other requirements, that operational flights must avoid overflight of inhabited areas except for certain exceptions expressly provided for, such as those for real domestic airspace defence flights or rescue needs. With regard, however, to activity at a higher speed than that of sound, it is regulated in Annex 6 of the same directive, which clarifies that it must be carried out on national territory only in specific areas and at an altitude not less than about 11,000 meters above sea level and, in any case, not in the Alpine area. In addition, it can only be done by day (from 9am to 8pm) and during weekdays. Foreign aircraft operating within Italian airspace are subject to the same rules as domestic aircraft and it is expressly provided that before carrying out the required activity, they must demonstrate that they have full knowledge of national procedures. In particular, the activity of aircraft of the United States belonging to units permanently stationed in Italy - as in the case at hand - is regulated by the document "Italy-US relations." Operational procedure in the field of training of July 1997, issued by the General Staff of Defense, as perfected with the following protocol, according to which they were identified: new procedures for the flight at very low altitude; the appointment of the US Authority to every base used by the US forces, responsible for the activity of flight and for the adherence to the Italian regulations; the figure of the lieson officers in the Italian and US units was created to optimize the flow of information; a flight safety board was created for periodic meetings on the topic of flight safety (dealing with periodic deepenings on the topic of the safety of the flight organized by the Air Force); the new procedures adopted to ensure that all the relevant factors were considered (training routes, operations of flight of helicopters and aircraft with fixed wing); new procedures were implemented within the various bilateral and technical agreements existing or to be implemented in the future. In any case, on an annual basis, the training requests of the American departments allocated to Italy for the following year are submitted to the approval of the national military summits.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u12	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr Undersecretary, first of all, I would like to thank you for your answer, which can be partially exhaustive, in the sense that it refers to an episode dating back to a year ago, so with a clear delay in the timing of your reply. He has well detailed the event that occurred indicating the means and motivations. This is a problem that concerns our territory, in particular the Alpine area, overwhelmed by an intense activity of air drills that involves inconveniences. I therefore ask you, also with regard to this situation of overcoming the sound barrier, since there are international agreements that regulate this type of activity, what are the warnings or in any case the warning from our country when these occur. We know that they are episodes that involve moments of discomfort and fear; I do not know if we have had the opportunity to verify the consequences of these roarings on the territory. Among other things, it is a territory that has also undergone seismic events and these episodes have brought to mind other events inspiring moments of fear not only in the elderly, but also in children. On that occasion, however, the schools themselves activated the emergency procedure and brought the children out of the school, causing enormous inconveniences and tensions. So, I certainly take note of the checks you have carried out, but I believe that the overflight activity that is becoming more and more intense must also be checked. In May, among other things, there were two particularly serious episodes because the overcoming has created problems, although of a non-healthy nature, even in some children. Later, throughout the month, the overflight of the territory continued. I had already tabled a written question, in July 2014, following the intensification of the military activity of overflight of the Belluno airspace. I would also ask you to monitor the nationality of the aircraft - which I believe is constantly being done - to check whether the aircraft are regularly operated, declared and monitored by the bases in the vicinity of our territory. We know very well, in fact, that we have more than one base on the territory and for this reason we ask that there be real monitoring because this activity of overflight involves considerable inconveniences to the population. We would therefore also like to see compliance with the agreements checked in order to keep these issues under control. We remember, in fact, that there have also been other episodes: events that have affected our system and events that unfortunately have seen many people perish in accidents due to the overcoming of the barrier of sound. That is why we really want to be protected in this respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u13	Following is the question 3-01513 on the monitoring service carried out by the National Cybercrime Centre for the Protection of Critical Infrastructures. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u14	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, the Ministry of the Interior is asked to extend to all Italian banking institutions the 24-hour monitoring by the National Centre for Critical Infrastructure Protection, provided for by the agreement signed in February 2010 between the Department of Public Security and Unicredit SpA. The Convention with Unicredit was concluded in implementation of Decree-Law No 144 of 2005, which contains urgent measures to combat international terrorism and - in this context - requires the Ministry of the Interior to identify critical IT infrastructures of national interest and then to protect them. The agreement with Unicredit was followed in March 2011 by a similar act with the Intesa São Paulo Banking Group. Both agreements were concluded, as well as at the request of the same credit institutions, also on the basis of the indications received from the Bank of Italy, which indicated them as "systemic banks," together with the Monte dei Paschi di Siena group. The positive results achieved in terms of computer security led the Ministry of the Interior to continue cooperation with the two banking institutions, so much so that the conventions were renewed respectively in March and April last year. It should be stressed the importance of these types of protocols, which significantly facilitate the alert process, the consequent detection of the terrorist or criminal threat and the subsequent adoption of counter-measures, as they identify upstream the subjects suitable for the management of this type of emergency, without prejudice to the 24-hour monitoring carried out by the National Cybercrime Centre for the protection of critical infrastructures. With reference to the request of the interrogating senators to conclude the conventions in question with all the Italian banking institutions, I would point out that, under current legislation, the ratio of these types of acts is to ensure the safety of those computer systems and services that constitute critical computer infrastructures of national interest. In the act of inspection union two projects are recalled that they also set themselves the objective of a greater security of the transactions and the traffics computer, but from visual angles different from that previously examined. With regard to the training project "Eye the scam@: it takes little to navigate safely," I would point out that the initiative is part of a wider context of campaigns to prevent cybercrime on the Internet, promoted by the postal police and communications to protect web users, in collaboration with consumer associations, schools, banks, universities and other bodies. On the other hand, the OF2CEN project, cited by the interrogating senators and in which the agreements concluded with Banca Sella and Carige, also mentioned in the question, aim specifically at preventing and combating cybercrime related to digital identity theft, in particular in home banking and monetic services. The project, funded by the European Union and implemented at national level through a consortium of public and private sector organisations, has resulted in the implementation of a IT platform used to share criminal incidents to the detriment of online financial services customers. Among the partners of the initiative is the Italian Banking Association, which has spread among its members the modalities of participation. So far, the membership of credit institutions and credit card issuing companies amounts to about twenty and is steadily increasing. The Italian model of synergy between the financial institutions and the Ministry of the Interior, realized with the platform OF2CEN, has found favorable interest also in European within, so much that it is being exported to the Countries of the European Union; last year the Department of Public Security has introduced a plan for its extension to the Countries of the Union. I believe that the initiatives just described bear witness to the high level of attention that the Ministry of the Interior devotes to strengthening the control systems of that "virtual territory" that is the Internet; territory where an increasing number of citizens spend their time - or rather spends their lives - and where, like what happens in the real streets, it is necessary to guarantee high standards of security that the high professionalism of the postal police and communications manages to guarantee as evidenced by the appreciation expressed in every place by operators and other European and Western police forces.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u17	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, I note the response received by Deputy Minister Bubbico, for which I am satisfied with the efforts made to ensure the security of banks' services and computer systems against cybercrime in relation to the online services offered. In particular, I would like to extend these conventions to a number of institutions that are as wide as possible in order to offer the majority of Italian accountants the protection and monitoring of the National Centre for Cybercrime, given that at the moment - as you said - these agreements have been concluded with two national credit institutions, such as Unicredit and Banca Intesa Group. However, I call on the Government and the relevant institutions not to underestimate the importance of preventing all types of crime, even more so than computer crime, in order to guarantee Italian citizens absolute safety standards.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u18	Following is the question 3-02169 on the guarantee of safety inside the airport of Rome Fiumicino. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u19	Mr President, the questioners raise the question of the efficiency of security measures at Italian airports and, in particular, at Fiumicino Airport, also in the light of the highest levels of risk to which the infrastructure is exposed in relation to the conduct of the Jubilee of Mercy. It should be noted immediately that, under the National Civil Aviation Security Programme, implementing the relevant European legislation, it is the operator of each airport airport that has to draw up, implement and maintain the security programme of the individual airport. In this context, the operator is required, inter alia, to ensure that the number of control stations operating throughout the day is constantly proportionate to the number of passengers and that passengers with an appropriate and valid ticket access only to the departure room. On the other hand, the air carrier shall be responsible for verifying at the gate, at the time of boarding, the correlation between the passenger's name in the travel document and the passenger's identity document. So much so and coming to the episode specifically mentioned in the question, I inform you that, in fact, on 6 September last year a Belgian citizen boarded a flight Ryan Air with destination Brussels, in possession of an appropriate identity document and a boarding pass registered to him, but having a different date. It was an intra-Schengen flight, for which no documentary checks are provided by the border police. As usual, the airport operator's staff subjected the passenger to security checks at the Schengen T3 gate. The operation was repeated at the boarding gate, by the ground personnel of the carrier. I emphasize that, in the circumstance, both controls have been carried out manually, being not possible during that period to carry out them through the ordinary electronic systems and optical reading, damaged by the fire that had hit the Roman port of call in May 2015. These are the facts, from which it is evident that at the base of the episode there was not a system error, but a human error, among other things, no longer repeatable, waiting that in the meantime the automated control systems have been restored. In reply to another question put by the honourable Members, I inform you that, starting from the second half of last year, the airport security device for the two international airports in the capital has been gradually strengthened, calibrated on the increasing volumes of passenger traffic connected to the Jubilee. This process has experienced a further impetus and refinement following the massacres in Paris and Brussels, November 2015 and March and the subsequent analyses that have been developed regarding the modus operandi of the jihadist terrorist groups. In particular, with regard to Ciampino airport, the surveillance of ticket offices and the external area has been strengthened, with the use, throughout the twenty-four hours, of personnel of the military contingent of the Safe Roads operation, in addition to the services carried out by the police stationed at the airport. More detailed measures have been taken for the Fiumicino airport, on which the largest national and international traffic of goods and passengers is concentrated. Again, the aim has been to intensify the surveillance of the ticket area and the external area, with the use not only of border police personnel and other police commands operating at the airport, but also of two additional patrol cars in the crime prevention department, during the daytime, and of a robust rate of the state police mobile department during the night. These initiatives are in addition to the interventions that, thanks also to the works of modernization of the terminal started after the fire of 7 May 2015, aim to raise the overall level of safety, through the improvement of the technological apparatuses and the consequent adaptation of the other infrastructures. In this respect, I represent that the device deployed by the police forces can now benefit from a video surveillance system with 2,000 cameras, a number that will increase further by the end of this year. Another area on which attention has been focused is the external fence of the terminal, which, while already meeting the standards set by Community regulations and the national security programme, has been strengthened by works to strengthen the most exposed points, including the entrance gates. Action is also under way to improve rapid detection. In particular, in addition to the forty-five closed-circuit cameras distributed along the perimeter, capable of covering the daytime time zone, the experimentation of an advanced anti-intrusion system has been started, with the use of seven "every time" cameras, along a stretch of a kilometer particularly exposed. At the same time, the level of perimeter surveillance has been raised, which is ensured today by not two touring patrols of security guards, entrusted by the airport manager for the protection of the company's assets, but also by a service carried out throughout the twenty-four-hour period by the staff of the offices and police commands operating in the airport. To these services, appropriately supplemented by border police rates, are added the activities of surveillance on the external area of the airport, ensured by the public security police station of Fiumicino. This security framework is also strengthened by the police bodies located at the airport, including the use of specialised units for sensitive flights and in all suspected intrusions into the so-called operational area or even in cases of attempts at illegal entry into the national territory. The security device shall also be supported by the sworn personnel appointed by the airport manager to check the possession of the required authorisations by operators and the means circulating within the flight area. Even aircraft that are on hold are constantly being watched by security guards, who alert police forces in the presence of anomalies or suspicious events. The measures just described are destined to ulterior refinement, waited that the prefecture of Rome is coordinating the activities started last January for the targeted update of the security plans Leonardo Da Vinci relative to the ports of call of Fiumicino and Ciampino, with the carrying out also of in situ surveys, one of which has been carried out just yesterday. Turning now to the staff of the police force in force at Fiumicino airport, I stress that it consists of a total of 1,551 operators, of which 802 are members of the State Police, 103 are soldiers at the Carabinieri Arm and 646 are units at the Finance Guard. Of this quota, 440 units make up the airport security device, consisting of specialized police force rates, flanked by emergency operational units, using specific equipment and operating techniques borrowed directly from the special police departments, the NOCS. This overall budget is also the result of some staff assignments arranged in connection with the Jubilee event. Recently, in fact, the contingent of the Finance Guard has been increased by 104 units, of which 35 specialize in counter-terrorism, while the Border Police Office has been assigned an additional 25 units. With regard to the different dimensions - found by the questioners - of the current police officers compared to those of the 1990s, it is considered that the data should be read in the light of the progressive outsourcing of certain security services and also the different responsibilities attributed by law to the operator of the airport. In this regard, I would point out that with an interministerial decree dating back to 1999 the safety checks of passengers departing and transiting, as well as of hand luggage and hold baggage were given to private individuals. In the same sense, Decree-Law No 101 of 2013 provided that, under the supervision of a police operator, checks on staff crossings and driveways can also be given in concession. Moreover, the National Civil Aviation Security Programme has provided that, under Community Regulation No 185 of 2010, the surveillance of the airport chair may be carried out by special security guards, always under the supervision of the police. In conclusion, in the light of the detailed measures that I have just outlined, I think I can say that the security device prepared at the international airports of the Capital is adequate to face the risks to which all people who, in various ways, frequent or benefit from such infrastructures of strategic importance for mobility in our country are exposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u22	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr Deputy Minister, I am sure that the answer is complete, because the question was tabled on 8 September 2015, before the tragic events in Paris and Brussels. Therefore, at the time it made sense to warn the Ministry of the interior of the situation that was emerging and that unfortunately has occurred, fortunately not in this city (but this does not detract from the gravity of the facts that have occurred in European cities). That situation highlighted aspects that required more attention from the Ministry, especially for those that were the most sensitive sites, in this case the airport of Fiumicino. Considering that, rightly and devoutly, the Ministry has completed all those that had to be the measures to put in place for the safety of the main port of call of Rome (or at least we hope that it has actually implemented them), I take advantage of its presence in order to make them present that however Rome does not stop in Fiumicino: it is the capital of Italy and the Ministry of the inside has of the tasks well precise, also regarding the safety not only of the tourists, not only of those who are in transit, but also and devidently of the Romans, especially of the Romans who live in the outskirts. So rather than asking her a question, I steal this minute from the Assembly to point out that in the meantime in Rome there have been, since 2016: about thirty complaints for assaults against ATAC personnel, a beating on a bus in Prati, an elderly kidnapped at the Collatino, two Spanish tourists attacked with a neck of bottles in Ostiense, a betting room robbed in Pietralata, an Albanian citizen captured in San Giovanni after an attempted theft and another at the Casilino who tried to rape a prostitute. Then, just to stay on the subject, tonight - I tell you now, in order not to have to wait another year, without asking a question - at La Rustica two people managed to break into an ATM with a tow truck and escape with the loot. Thank you, then, for having secured the Fiumicino airport, even if a Belgian citizen (after all, given what happened, let's realize what Rome lives every day), managed to get on an aircraft with an expired ticket, and we noticed only because the legitimate holder of the ticket and the place also got on the plane and told him that maybe there was a mistake. I would not want anyone to ask this Ministry a further question so that you realize that Rome is certainly going through one of the greyest periods of its history. Even if you put young people in the old town, about 20 years old, with a machine gun in your hands to guard what you think are the most sensitive areas, there continues to be a city that, in its outskirts, lives in insecurity and fear.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u23	The questioning and questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u24	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-613.ana.u25	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 26 April, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.47 p.m.
