ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 23 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u4	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u8	The agenda would provide for the discussion of draft law No 361, on the limits to the renewal of the mandates of the bodies of the ICON, but since the opinion of the 5th Commission has not been received and the following is the debate on an urgent measure, we shall proceed to the next item on the agenda, pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2389. The rapporteurs, Mr Sangalli and Mr Vattuone, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Sangalli.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u10	Madam President, it is me and Senator Vattuone for Foreign and Defence Commissions who are the rapporteurs for this measure. The measure is complex and brings the conversion of the decree-law that extends until 31 December 2016 the Italian participation in international missions and the interventions of cooperation and support in the processes of peace and stabilisation. The measure, unlike the past, ensures coverage of interventions over the entire calendar year of reference. For the rest, it confirms our country's multilateral approach to international issues, aimed at supporting the interventions through which the international community acts for the stabilisation of critical areas and the overcoming of conflict scenarios. Italy's approach is, moreover, historically characterized by its ability to combine the military and civil dimensions, with a view to ensuring a lasting stabilisation of the main areas of intervention. In this direction, humanitarian interventions and initiatives must be addressed, which always go hand in hand with international missions in the strict sense. I would like to stress the expression 'always beside our international missions', because - as we have also seen in the serious debate that the two Commissions have conducted on this subject - the subject is very much heard. The military intervention must also be for all of us in support of the people who are affected and, in particular, of those who are currently the target of aggression and malice in the actions of Daesh and Islamic fundamentalism. I will of course leave to Mr Vattuone the illustration of Chapter I of this measure concerning international military missions. For the foreign affairs profiles referred to in Chapter II of the Decree-Law, I would first like to stress that the total amount of cooperation and stabilisation measures is EUR 260 million. In detail, for development cooperation initiatives, as provided for in Article 8, resources of 90 million euros are authorised, aimed at improving the living conditions of the population and supporting civil reconstruction in a number of countries: Afghanistan, Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Central African Republic, Iraq, Libya, Mali, Myanmar, Pakistan, Palestine, Syria, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan, Yemen and neighbouring countries, for the necessary assistance to refugees. These funds are intended to supplement the appropriations already available under the Development Cooperation Act. In this regard, I recall that the Stability Act for 2016 had arranged appropriations related to development cooperation operations for EUR 1,199 billion, with reference to the estimates of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and for an additional EUR 380 million with reference to the estimates of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. With regard to Afghanistan, funding follows on from Italy's commitments at the Bonn and Tokyo conferences, and is intended for priority actions to support public finances and the socio-economic development of the population, as well as for rural development programmes, governance, the protection of women's rights and the protection of cultural heritage. In Pakistan, measures are mainly targeted at the rural development sector, with particular attention to the most vulnerable groups, while in Myanmar, they focus on strengthening the capacities of local institutions and supporting cultural heritage. Interventions in Iraq are aimed at humanitarian measures, in particular for internally displaced persons. The commitment is directed, in particular, to the UN agencies present in the area (from UNICEF to the High Commissioner for Refugees), with the support of Italian universities and decentralised cooperation. In Syria and neighbouring countries, initiatives are aimed at the sectors of agriculture and food security, as well as support for host communities, and support Italian participation in regional trust funds for the crisis, including the European Fund, which sees Italy as one of the co-founders, and which in 2015 managed funding for almost 500 million euros. Other qualifying actions are aimed, inter alia, at the Palestinian territories (particularly for the reconstruction of Gaza), Libya (for initiatives in the agricultural, rural development, health and education sectors), Somalia (for support to basic health services), Yemen (to address the consequences of the civil war), Sudan (for the consolidation of the peace process in the eastern area and humanitarian activity in Darfur) and South Sudan (to address the ongoing emergency and to strengthen food security conditions). Particular attention is paid to the public dissemination of the results obtained through this activity, which are published on the Ministry's institutional website, constantly updated. An expenditure of EUR 1.7 billion is then earmarked for the implementation of integrated humanitarian mine clearance programmes, to be implemented mainly in Afghanistan, Somalia, Syria, Libya, Colombia, Iraq and Gaza. With regard to measures to support reconstruction, peace and stabilisation processes, Article 9 allows a total expenditure of around € 168 million. Of these, 6 million are earmarked for actions to support peace, stabilisation and security processes in countries such as Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria, Tunisia and the countries of sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and Caribbean. A specific commitment is intended to support national reconciliation and democratic transition in Libya and stabilisation in Iraq and Syria and to the benefit of the Tunisian economy seriously affected by the 2015 attacks. In addition, €2.1 million is earmarked for the financing of trust funds (such as those of NATO, for the strengthening of the institutions and defence bodies of partner countries, and of the UN, for the resolution of Libyan and Syrian crises), and of some programmes of international organisations (including the UNDP programme in Libya), as well as for the benefit of the Union for the Mediterranean and the UN Special Tribunal for Lebanon. Italian contributions to Afghan security forces and the country's stabilisation amount to 120 million and are also foreseen 11.7 million euros for Italian participation in European initiatives in the field of the CFSP, the OSCE, the Foundation Permanent Secretariat of the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative, the European Institute of Peace, the Central European Initiative (INCE) and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Decree-Law also finances operational emergency and security interventions for the protection of citizens and structures of the diplomatic network in crisis areas, for a total of EUR 27,5 million, referring in particular to areas such as Afghanistan, Egypt, Palestinian territories, Saudi Arabia and Somalia. Article 9 of the measure regulates the treatment for the personnel of the Ministry sent on mission to the sites at risk, while Article 10 establishes the intervention system and contains some provisions derogating from the regulations in force in this matter. Paragraph 3 of Article 10, aimed at amending an article in the new Development Cooperation Act (Law No 125 of 11 August 2014), is of interest in order to establish a specific treasury account to which the resources allocated to cooperation interventions separate from that intended for the Agency's operating expenses, without, however, new or higher burdens on public finances, are to be transferred. Madam President, I begin with the conclusion of my report - unfortunately relatively listened to in this House - which introduces the theme of our intervention in cooperation, in support of development and assistance to the people, in the processes of democratization and evolution in place in various parts of the world, obviously using military missions as an indispensable support to our country's policy, which is aimed at the affirmation of peace and the stabilisation of these processes... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u11	Colleagues, I invite you to lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u12	Mr Sangalli, rapporteur. It is clear that, if military missions are decontextualized, of which we will speak now, from the scenario of intervention of total foreign policy of our Country, one risks to understand very little of the military missions and to give a rough and somewhat stereotyped reading that underestimates the fundamental role that our Country is playing not only in the Mediterranean, but - more overall - in the crisis scenarios present all over the world. In this sense, foreign policy comes before military policy, but military policy becomes an integral part of a foreign policy for peace, stabilisation, multilaterality and the affirmation of international organisations. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u13	I call the rapporteur, Senator Vattuone.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law, which Parliament is about to convert, addresses the issue of international missions covering the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. Mr Sangalli has examined the international scenario which continues to present many elements of instability; a condition, unfortunately, that translates for Italy, as for the international community in which we are inserted, in a constant risk to our security. The serious attacks that have taken place in Europe in the past months have confirmed the link between the ongoing conflicts in the regions surrounding the Old Continent and security within our states. They have confirmed the operational capacity of the terrorist groups that know how to operate in real war contexts and that manage to infiltrate our cities. They have also confirmed the serious risk posed by so-called foreign fighters, who have acquired military knowledge and skills in fighting civil wars and who can now use these skills for terrorist purposes. This set of factors makes clear the importance, today more than yesterday, of the action carried out by our armed and police forces; action that takes place - as is well known - both in the theatres of crises abroad and on national territory and in the waters around it. In this context, the Mission Decree-Law immediately highlights a particular effort to combat terrorism, especially in relation to the Mediterranean area. Defence and security policy is certainly one of the most shared factors at international level and one of the areas in which the objective of a more integrated common European policy, a common policy which, although insufficient, has made a significant contribution, together with the other pillar represented by NATO, to maintaining the system of global governance, has long been defined. Over the last decade, the European Union has played an increasing role in crisis management in general, both at regional and global level. With the creation and subsequent expansion of the European security and defence policy, now known as the 'common security and defence policy', the European Union has acquired a number of operational and institutional instruments for crisis management, which are still insufficient, of course, but with an absolutely indispensable perspective for crisis management. The presentation of the Strategic Plan for European Security by the High Representative Mogherini, which can certainly be a re-launching chapter of the European Union, should be noted in this regard. On the other hand, a European Union that has begun to move towards the decline of its project would cease to be a major international player and our influence in world balances, multilateral institutions and major international negotiations would be kept to a minimum. Instead of a partner, the United States would have a problem in Europe and the strength of the West, as would its ability to exercise leadership. It would lose strength and force the same idea that international relations should be complemented by multilateral institutions, by shared alliances, rules and practices, to the benefit of a world view based on anachronistic unilateralism and nationalism. This is particularly evident in the Balkans, for example. For the countries in this area, the European Union has now become the main political and economic reference point. I believe that no one can doubt that only through the placement in international organizations - as my colleague Mr Sangalli said well at the end of his speech - can Italy have an impact on the world balance and be able to influence decision-making and priority-setting processes. It should be stressed that the measure we examine is distinguished in order to be the closest historically to the interests and priorities of our country. Italy has been working since the beginning of this legislature to ensure that the Mediterranean area becomes a priority for the European Union and NATO and, with Mare nostrum, has been able to take a leading role in the European Union's international political agenda. The result is now confirmed by the common commitment to counter trafficking in human beings in the central Mediterranean, extending by one year the mission EUNAVFOR Med, to which are added two other functions, one training Libyan coastguard in international waters and the other contributing to the control of the embargo, which continues to be violated. Then there is the agreement for the migration compact, which represents the strategy of partnership with the countries of origin and transit of migratory flows, and the positive response of the United States to Italy's request to strengthen NATO's southern flank, inter alia by implementing the strategic coordination between NATO and the European Union that Italy has proposed and supported vigorously in recent months. Entering the substance, as regards the aspects of the strict competence of the Defense and for the part related to the Armed Forces, the provision is structured according to the usual modalities, subdivided the missions in three articles on the basis of the continental dislocation of the quotas (Europe, Asia and Africa). The discipline constantly repeated by the legislative measures to extend missions with regard to personnel, criminal matters and accounting matters is confirmed. The average annual number of staff employed is around 5,938 units, with an increase of about 245 units compared to the average recorded in the last quarter of 2015, for a commitment of expenditure in defence of about 1,017 billion. In particular, participation in the activities of the international coalition to combat the terrorist threat of the Daesh (from 750 to 978 units) is strengthened, with effect from 1 April 2016, providing for a personnel recovery device for research, detection and recovery of personnel who have remained isolated in a hostile environment, composed of a further rate of personnel (137 units) and related aircraft facilities. Moreover, at the request of the international coalition and in agreement with the Iraqi Government, Italy - as is well known - has made itself available to guarantee the protection of the area of the great dam of Mosul, strategic work for the whole region, where the project for its consolidation is starting, to avoid its collapse and the consequent immense damage that this would cause. For this last commitment, the preliminary activities of reconnaissance of the places were carried out. Today, as foreseen in the Decree-Law on Missions, with the amendment proposed by the Government, already approved by the Commissions 3rd and 4th meeting, in line with the overall developments of the project, we proceed to the effective sending of staff in the operating theatre staggered over time, for a total of about 500 units by October 2016. For Afghanistan, the increase in the average contingent employed in theatre is confirmed. We've already talked about EUNAVFOR Med operation Sophia. The Safe Sea operation, which we have also discussed in the Commission, is essential for maritime safety in the Mediterranean; the average number of personnel employed (753 units) is confirmed, which, with the units involved, ensures the security of strategic energy sources, commercial transits and fishing activities. I remember that in the Mediterranean, in a watery mirror that constitutes 1% in the world, 25 percent of the world's goods pass through. It is also an element of novelty compared to the previous decree-law on missions the Italian contribution to the strengthening of the devices of the Atlantic Alliance, in compliance with the principle of solidarity between allies in various theatres. These are new provisions that are in detail: the NATO Active fence operation consists of deploying missile batteries to defend the south-eastern borders of the Alliance. It is a matter of contributing for six months to the allied deployment for the defence of Turkey's airspace with a missile battery, which takes over the rotation of equivalent structures deployed so far by the Allies. There are also reassuring measures in the south-east region with the strengthening of the air space surveillance mechanism of the Eastern European and South-East Alliance countries, and thus at the borders of the NATO area. In this case, there are authorisations to make available a refueling aircraft that will be able to operate in favour of the allied component of radar aircraft, committed to ensuring surveillance of airspace. Then there is an upgrade of the naval surveillance device of the South area of the Alliance, where Italy participates with a gamemine. It is planned to extend, until 31 December 2016, the use of 1,500 units of personnel of the Armed Forces for the security needs related to the performance of the Extraordinary Jubilee of Mercy and those of other areas of the national territory, as well as the increase of an additional 750 units (from 9 May to 31 December 2016) used in the supervisory services in the operations of the Safe Roads and the Land of Fires. Finally, all the operating theatres included in the previous measure in Europe, Asia and Africa are confirmed. Articles 5, 6 and 7 shall contain the usual provisions on staff, criminal law and accounting. There are, however, two innovative measures in the legal system. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, certain amendments to Article 10 of the Code of Criminal Procedure are introduced. In accounting matters, a new article on insurance and transport contracts is introduced within the Military Order Code. There have been some amendments adopted in the Commission. I and my colleague Mr Sangalli, as rapporteurs, announce the presentation of two more, but I quote only one here. There has been an amendment that realizes the constitution of the Foundation of the Corps of the Red Cross, in charge of the performance of the functions of public interest according to the laws in force, as well as those of aid to the formation in the matter of emergencies and civil protection. I would like to point out that the amendment does not introduce innovative elements in the current procedure for reordering the Italian Red Cross, but it does by law - and therefore by direct implementation, necessarily with a publicity tool - implement one of the requirements of this procedure which, although provided for in current legislation, has remained unimplemented, probably because the obligation to set up the Foundation, already foreseen today, is not assisted by a peremptory term or by alternative remedies. The rule, therefore, does not introduce new or additional burdens on the state budget, since the activities of the Foundation, as currently outlined by the current legislation, will be financed through the public contribution to the administrations concerned (they are the Defense and the Economy), through the use of the convention already contained and within the limits and rules currently foreseen. Even with regard to staff, the amendment does not introduce new or additional burdens, as it reproduces the current wording. Finally, the rules on financial cover and entry into force are included. I conclude by expressing a sincere thanks to our Armed Forces for the commitment shown, with seriousness and professionalism recognized at all levels, reaffirming once again that our Country boasts a long-term commitment, remaining among the most important contributing countries, both in terms of personnel employed and in terms of financial contribution. Therefore, in today's complex and troubled reality, international missions are one of the privileged tools to address complex crises and implement an international policy adapted to new difficulties and crises. Our commitment is supported by basic principles that guide and oversee our foreign and security policy, which we have been following for many years and which come from the second period of Article 11 of our Constitution. I refer to our choice for multilateral crisis management and to give stability, continuity and planning capacity to the action of the international community in favour of stability and peaceful development, in a context of adherence to the United Nations-based system of relations and institutions and other organisations to which we belong in accordance with international law. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u15	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u16	Madam President, we are once again analyzing a decree-law on military missions. We risk repeating the same things that have already been said on other occasions, all the more so because we have to do, more or less, always with the same missions, which have now become chronic, since some have been going on for almost a decade. You don't understand why you insist on these kind of military missions that, evidently, have not led to any result, if you need to continue to be present in those areas with our Armed Forces. However, I would like to focus my speech, not to repeat things already said on other occasions, on certain aspects that may seem secondary: I refer, for example, to Article 9, which should be concerned with supporting reconstruction processes and participation in the initiatives of international organisations for the consolidation of peace and stabilisation processes. It has been observed by several human rights associations that, precisely in paragraph 3 of Article 9, within the framework of the international community's financial commitment to Afghanistan, EUR 120 million is allocated to support Afghan security forces, including police forces; similar provision with a different sum is foreseen for Somali police forces. I would like to point out that, according to more organisations dealing with human rights and working internationally, both Afghan police and Somali police have been reported to the United Nations as using child soldiers. We are not talking about another series of very questionable behaviors put in place by the same police forces that we insist on wanting to feed, practically determining, with our contribution, the perpetuation of certain situations and the use of child soldiers who, so far - I would like to say - no member of the Armed Forces or of the Ministry of Defence has managed to deny. Therefore, I believe that we must trust the reports made to us by human rights organisations. With regard to the most exquisitely military part of the missions, there is practically little new to report, except that the international situation and the problems deriving from it continue to be the same. I see no commitment on the part of our own and other governments participating in these military missions, to truly seek a breakthrough in the conflict situations in which we are intervening; a breakthrough that probably is not there because no one wants it. All in all, military missions abroad have now become a routine in the activity of our armed forces, which is carried out almost to justify the ever increasing military expenses also in our country, thus allowing the employment of certain armed forces that otherwise would remain unused and the expense of considerable resources; money that is often used also in a distorted way, not just for the purpose for which they have been allocated, that is to carry out military missions abroad, but simply to increase the availability and the spending capacity of the Army, the Air Force and the Navy, which have intertwined interests now consolidated with the Italian war industry and the entire system of exports of our weapons in the world, which, instead of going to solve the problems of stability and international peace, definitely go to aggravate them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u17	Madam President, the two separate measures to extend the international missions approved in 2015 had already recorded a different positioning of our security and defence system in order to adapt it to new threats and the emergence of unprecedented and urgent crisis scenarios. This is because of the priorities arising from the tragic events in Paris, evidence of a qualitative leap in the threat capacity of the group of the so-called Islamic State and also because of the opportunity to increase the function of surveillance and control in the Mediterranean basin as a consequence of the same migrant emergency. It is in this context that, alongside the commitments that have characterized our international position for years - I am thinking, for example, of the presence in the Balkans, of the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon or Afghanistan - the commitments in the coalition against ISIS and the same mission EUNAVFOR Med have been added. The profile of our external action, of our projection in the international scenario, confirms, in the decree-law of extension of missions 2016, this orientation, marking it with more clarity. Firstly, the framework of the commitments set out for the current year responds to the need to give continuity to the actions undertaken to maintain peace at national level, which is now even more necessary because the contexts such as Lebanon or Afghanistan are systematically affected by the instability produced in the area of the Syro-Iraq region and at the same time by the spread of jihadist extremism. The same reports, then, describing the situation in which the UNIFIL mission is operating, after a first phase in which there was a relative tranquility in the area of the so-called blue line, record the fact that the Lebanese area itself is suffering from the contagion of the conflict in Syria with a massive arrival of refugees from the war zones and a decided increase of hostilities that also involved the same troops of Assad on the Lebanese territory. It is still known that in Afghanistan, in recent months, the Taliban have intensified their relations with the Haqqani Network and Al Qaeda, which, albeit downsized, has an active presence in the region. Therefore, the measure before us defines new commitments, such as the one relating to the protection of the Mosul dam or the burden assumed in NATO to protect Turkish airspace from the risk of trespasses from Syria. This set of explicit commitments therefore the full participation of our country in the evolution of the efforts of the international community and at the same time specifies the definition of our own position in the international chessboard, taking into account those situations that cannot but be shared in the facts. What is important, and that I believe must be put to the attention of our discussion, are also those priorities that are reflected in the overall interest of the international community and that belong to Italy in the first place, especially on the front of our strong characterization in the Mediterranean basin where, as is known, Italy since the end of 2013 with the Mare nostrum mission has assumed burdens and responsibilities to cope with the massive increase in migratory flows. In this context, the EUNAVFOR Med mission is there to demonstrate, I believe, how direct political action, aimed at bringing the Mediterranean to the centre of the global agenda, has given, or at least begin to give, the first results. Moreover, the agreement on the Migration Compact of a few weeks ago and the positive response, as the rapporteur recalled in his speech, of the United States to Italy's request to strengthen NATO's southern flank with a new strategic plan that goes beyond the emerging response of migrants' aid, are the result of our decisive political action. The measure, therefore, draws the profile of a country firmly incardinated in the international community, which has gradually proved to be able to influence also in the areas of co-decision managing to bring out on the agenda of the international community the profiles closest to our priorities. In any case, Madam President, the same issue connected with Brexit today strongly calls for a revival in the Union, together with a rethink of the European project, also the prospect of a common foreign and defence policy, in order to enable Europe to play that fundamental role as a protagonist in the international scene, on a plan of unity of intent, values and shared policies, necessary to face the dynamics of a world in profound change, and failing which the European nations will hardly manage to avoid the irrelevancy and decline. The history of European unification shows, again, from its origins onward, that progress towards greater integration has almost always been made under the pressure of external events, sometimes dramatic, as it was for the revival of common defence after the wars in the former Yugoslavia. It is therefore our task to express a political capacity that will enable the European Union to redefine its own, concrete identity, no longer perceived as distant, perhaps linked to the only dimension of the financial interests of the strongest countries or countries. It is, indeed, a question of drawing long-term goals, which are capable of expressing a new vision, capable of relaunching shared political and economic choices, in the long run, for a new season of growth and social development. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u18	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u19	Madam President, I would like to make a premise. As the North League, in dealing with these issues, we have always been extremely responsible, also because, speaking of international missions, the foreign policy of a State projects its image and its credibility towards the outside world, so even if we can be of opposing sides, the greatest seriousness must be placed on the issues that must be addressed. This has always been the case, and it will be the case, given that we note - and we would like to be able to influence with the amendments to amend, we also believe that in order to improve - so many critical aspects that are still contained for us in the decree-law. In the meantime we would like to stress a serious behavioural responsibility of the Government: we continue to discuss extensions of current missions, but we were waiting for this measure at New Year's Eve last year and did not arrive. This means that thousands of sailors, pilots and soldiers have so far worked out of legal protection. We wondered why there was this negligence on the part of the Government and we tried to understand the reasons for this delay (but provocatively I turn the question to the Undersecretary). There are two, maybe three cases. Or the Government has waited for two international positions to be clarified, that of Iraq and that of Libya, perhaps in order to include in this measure any new commitments, which would be plausible and even legitimate; perhaps the Government has had serious problems of coverage, as it had to find more than 1,200 million euros; third hypothesis - that it is not to be discarded a priori - is that the Government has waited until now thinking of a favorable closure of the unified text - alas firm to the House - arising also from the proposal of law signed Garofani and Cirielli: if that had been approved, these parliamentary passages would no longer be necessary, because the document would have been transmitted only to the competent Commissions as regards the distribution of soldiers and resources between the various operations already authorized during the year. One of three. Then there is a yellow, which we have highlighted by looking at the chronology: the decree-law is approved in the Council of Ministers on 29 April last and we are very late, but it passes three weeks before the provision is published in the Official Journal. In fact, it takes the name of Decree-Law No 67 on May 16, 2016: these three weeks of lethargy, are also not understandable. The first criticism of Operation NEVFOR Med is as follows. Our Navy soldiers have gladly learned the objective of this mission and the entire Parliament has delegated the Government to follow up on this objective, namely to defeat exploitation and to begin the real fight against human trafficking. This is the end of the mission. We have heard the sailors participating in the mission and are mortified to say the least: where is the fight against human trafficking? And what does the rescue activity have to do with it? By now warships, aircraft carriers that have cost and of which we know the approach (we know the ship Cavour) act as passenger ships to collect and convey to our reception centers anyone is found in difficulty at sea. We do not criticize the rescue operation, but the fact that resources, resources and naval structures have been allocated to an end that was not this. We have also given this mission a mandate to combat terrorism. We note, for declarations by international bodies such as the Frontex Secretariat, that more than 5 billion euros have been spent in the terrorist coffers because of what these people pay, to be ferryed to the Italian, Greek or other countries' shores, associations linked to Al Quaeda, ISIS, Daesh. Believing to help poor Christians, we have fueled the terrorist structures we say we want to fight. You don't understand anything anymore! Let us then make another question, because we do not have to be goodists here: we are not inhumane in making rational reasoning. Who are these people being helped at sea? They're not poor. The poor remain in their countries, in mud huts, to starve just as we did before. In fact, those who arrive must pay figures ranging from 2,000 to 3,000 dollars and they are not the poor, but the rich of those countries who can afford to try to make a qualitative leap in their lives. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The poor continue to remain there and we still pretend not to understand it. These people feed the coffers of the terrorist system that threatens our countries again. Even in this case you have to have the courage to look at the phenomenon with the right lenses, otherwise we do (as we have done) big mess. Renzi has had very recent contacts with the Russian authorities. Renzi, the President of the Italian Council, understood that Italian interests, Italian energy interests and Italian companies are greatly penalized by anti-Russian sanctions and that it could not have continued on this path. Mr Renzi told us yesterday in this Chamber that he will explain to the European Council the possibility of closing sanctions or finding alternative ways to sanctions against Russia. This is the government's line. Well, what does the measure provide for today when we examine it? To allocate EUR 900,000 - perhaps not so many - as an Italian contribution to strengthening NATO's anti-Russian defences. While we are discussing, in Poland and the Baltic countries, the Italian military participates in international exercises at the borders with Russia. Are we really looking for a relaxation that benefits everyone with the country that is at the forefront of fighting international terrorism, which has hit Europeans more than other parts of the world, are we looking for reconciliation and the possibility of actually fighting a common enemy or are we playing another game? The Russians cannot fail to see or overlook the fact that NATO countries put missile barriers right in front of their home exit. Renzi has shown that he understood it, from all the criticisms, reasonings and observations made in these classrooms. Do we want to sew up with that country and find a common line without double standards? Today we have discussed the recognition of Kosovo, but if Kosovo is recognised, why should we not recognise the outcome of the referendum in Crimea? Kosovo of Serbian sovereignty can be recognized internationally, even if my colleague Stucchi today declared, on behalf of the League, that we do not recognize it because, if we recognize every country that proclaims itself free, we must review all national sovereignty and recognize Crimea immediately. Do we still want to find relaxation with this country? If so, let's not put the missiles in front of their front door, Mr. Undersecretary. We no longer have F-16 active, we have so much stock material related to these aircraft. Again in the text under consideration, it is decided to donate all the equipment and spare parts of these aircraft to Egypt. Today it could be read as an intelligent operation, as the current Egyptian Government is engaged in the fight against terrorism, as are many other forces, also because, bordering Libya, I believe it has had civilian and military losses. So there's no way he wasn't on this side. This would be the snapshot of the moment, but every state has a situation in itinerant, and if we look at the events of the last four years in Egypt, we have seen the succession of four governments of four regimes: from Mubarak, to Morsi to al-Sisi. What if tomorrow, with a forthcoming election, they return to rule - with Morsi or with another President - the Muslim Brotherhood? We would have given arms exactly to those who declared war on us or to those who work with Al Qaeda, the Nusra, Daesh. Giving clothes, medicines, various equipment can be a humanitarian intervention, but donating weapons, parts of aircraft, thus making a state that is militarily more effective than anything is stabilized, a bit of concern raises it: we give something that can make a state more aggressive that is not yet stabilized at all. We still have two anti-piracy operations, Atalanta and Ocean shield, one under European aegis and the other under UN aegis. Well, it is thought to allow the shipowners to use contractors, so that those carrying a cargo, and must defend it in an area where there are also risks of piracy, if they employ military, because the military does not need authorization to carry weapons, but the owner pays this cost; alternatively, assumes a private supervision, contractor or other, and pays it. That's how it worked. Someone has to explain why we have to send 400 soldiers to Mosul to protect a private dam renovation operation. It is true, it is an Italian company, the Trevi di Cesena, that has won a contract of more than 270 million, clearly in a high-risk area, since - if I am not mistaken - there are strongholds of organized terrorism of the Islamic State. That company has made a contest, won it, obtained such an important contract, will have to calculate the risk, the insurance for its employees and the safety of the yards. I worked with companies that worked abroad, years ago. Well, we had to think about security, fence the yards in those areas, put in a police system, negotiate it with the states, comply with the laws of those states. But a company that makes an investment abroad knows that it has a greater risk margin than making the same investment on its territory. Why, then, the State, the Italian Government, the Italian citizens should pay this kind of guarantee to a company, Trevi or not Trevi? Moreover, 100 soldiers have already left, they are already on the spot and I do not even know if there is already a cover because here we are talking about predicting cover. But 100 of the 400 are already there, I don't know with what risk margins. However, we find it inconsistent that the profits go to Trevi society while the costs are of the Italian people. I should like to conclude with a banality, perhaps, Undersecretary, but I would like to understand what will happen to Amendment 8.3, at the first signature of Senator Verducci - on which, moreover, the 5th Commission has encountered problems of coverage - which gives an authorisation to the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation to employ 60 of the 120 technicians in the technical and operational area, in derogation from existing legislation. There is more. General managers (and also non-general managers) may obtain the assignment by contribution. Well, we were accustomed to the rules of public evidence and that, in case of recruitment (and here we talk about permanent recruitment), these should be governed by the general principles of public administration, ergo public competition: those who have titles, those who have quality, the best can access. What's this all about now? Now the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation can disinterest itself in all this and hire 50% exactly half more staff, by way of derogation from the laws and general principles. In addition, all managers, including general managers, can be appointed without passing selective evidence or, at least, competitions for titles (which would at least reward those with more titles). There is even an assignment. This too seems to us what, once, was called marchetta or norm ad personam: there are people to be placed and it is said that: "no adequate professionalism is found" and therefore access to atypical procedures. For these reasons, which we consider very pregnant and not frivolous, we would like to listen to what will emerge during the debate, reserving ourselves to evaluate, with a sense of responsibility as we talk about the image of our country outside. We have some concerns about the measure, as it has been presented. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Gualdani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u21	Madam President, the draft law before this House contains a number of provisions aimed at ensuring, for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016, the extension of the participation of armed and police personnel in international missions, as well as the continuation of development cooperation interventions and in support of peace and stabilisation processes. It is clear that we have voted on so many decree-laws of this kind and I really hope that this is the last time we do so. When the framework law on missions ends its parliamentary path we will have the opportunity, once a year, to have a real debate, in an organic way, on international missions and on the horizons and future prospects of our country's military policy. The centrality of the issue is evident to everyone after the tragedy in France last year, which put at the heart of the political debate the need for defence and an international strategy to counter the emergence of new forms of war and terrorism. In fact, international missions are not neutral: in recent years they have been the indicator of a progressive deterioration of the situation. We started with Afghanistan many years ago, and then continued with Lebanon and missions to Africa. Among the important contents of the decree-law under consideration, I stress the important extension of missions already active in the current state in both European and non-European territory. Article 1 contains provisions on missions to the Balkans, while Article 2 extends for the whole year a series of missions already active in Asia (including the NATO mission in Afghanistan). Article 3 extends for the entire year a series of missions already active in African territory, while Article 4 provides for the authorisation of expenditure related to additional needs related to international missions, including the conclusion of insurance and transport contracts and for the construction of infrastructure, the maintenance of the information and operational device of the Agency information and external security (AISE) to protect the Armed Forces. It is important to underline that, in order to protect the security requirements relating to the Italian territory, the measure under consideration extends the use of a quota of additional 1,500 units throughout the year, compared to the 4,800 personnel already employed last year, for the security requirements connected to the extraordinary Jubilee of Mercy and to some specific areas of the national territory, already authorized use until 30 June 2016. Moreover, from 9 May to 31 December, the quota already used, limited to surveillance services and sensitive sites and objectives, increased by 750 units, to the extent of 4,800 units. It is also important to report the refinancing for 2016 of the Fund for Humanitarian Demining and Reclamation of areas with explosive war remnants, amounting to €1,700,000. Article 9 lays down provisions for support for reconstruction processes and participation in international organisations' initiatives for the consolidation of peace and stabilisation processes. Security is certainly a value for all of us and for all of our citizens, and today it is even more so, after the tragic events in Paris. Recently we heard, inside and outside the institutional buildings, interventions such as: "We call our soldiers, because we need to defend ourselves within our country." However, there is no more anachronistic position or attitude than this. Historically neutral countries, such as Japan, Sweden and Finland, where public opinion is still largely in favour of neutrality, have initiated revisions of their systems or actively participate in international missions. Today, the need for security requires us to get out of our borders, also because war has taken on characteristics different from traditional ones. There is often talk of asymmetrical or hybrid warfare, civilian use and use is made of terrorism, guerrilla warfare, computer warfare and, above all, propaganda. In short, conflict methods and scenarios become global and this requires 360 degree prevention. We are voting today for a measure which is an investment in the security of our citizens, as shown by NATO itself, which in recent decades has developed capabilities for the stabilisation, prevention and management of post-conflicts, as well as the ability to hold up an efficient military machine. Obviously, this implies that we also have the courage to say no to easy demagogies and to recognize the value, for Italy, of the great professionalism and balance with which our Armed Forces are present in the various world scenarios. We have a responsibility to explain to our citizens that defence expenditure is investment and, at the same time, that military force or intervention, without a strong national and European identity, is not sufficient to guarantee the security of a people. The role that Italy plays in the recovery of this identity is fundamental, without forgetting the appreciation that our soldiers receive abroad whenever they are engaged in international operations aimed at maintaining or stabilising peace processes. We cannot fail to support the hope of peace and a better future represented by the faces of our young people on mission. We must unitedly support their sacrifices and their spirit of service, putting aside oppositions and personalisms, because in their sacrifices the idea of Italy of peace in the world is manifested. That is why, without any doubt, we must constantly support the action of our youngsters abroad. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u22	Senator Alicata is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us is, as usual, a matter of foreign and defence policy. It will perhaps be the last time we will vote on a decree-law to refinance the missions, being in the right of arrival to the Chamber the framework law, already approved in Senate a few months ago, that will exceed the desuited discipline of the decree of urgency in this matter. Forza Italia, as is well known, has always voted for these measures, regardless of the responsibilities of the Government, proudly claiming appreciation and high esteem for our Armed Forces, which stand out in the various scenarios where they operate for commitment and professionalism unanimously appreciated. On this occasion, however, our approach remains strongly critical, since in the decree-law under consideration, apart from the necessary extensions to the many missions to which Italy participates, situations are perpetuated that have nothing to do with the security of the country and much with the exhausting demagogy of the Government, which continues to finance missions born with security objectives and continue with other purposes. In this sense, the mission NEVFOR Med, for which almost €70 million are allocated, was created to combat and dismantle human trafficking in the central-southern Mediterranean, transformed, after the first phase of gathering intelligence information and some arrests of scafists, into a sort of Mare nostrum 2, betraying the reasons for which it was constituted, with the risk not so larvato to keep this baraccone of illegal immigration intact, to the criminal joy of those in Libya, but also in Italy, from the migration phenomenon they derive economic and political benefits. The doubts, therefore, that we had highlighted at the time, despite having cast a positive vote, have proved to be in all their evidence. Only the first phase could be experienced with some success, but to dismantle the smuggling of migrants even to talk about it. In these days, moreover, it has been attributed to the aforementioned mission a ulterior mandate, that to train the coastguard and the Libyan navy, with the hope that perhaps, in about ten years, they will succeed in the objectives that EUNAVFOR Med has so far failed: to put out of use the nets of the traffickers. That is why or there is the Government's commitment to urge the UN and the Libyan authorities to proceed shortly to phase 3 of the mission, thus allowing them to enter Libyan waters to prevent departures and to counter human trafficking, or vice versa the mission stops, because the purposes for which it was born have been disregarded. In this case, Mr. Undersecretary, the huge resources used for other purposes more appropriate to the security of the country are being used again. For example, we were going to strengthen, we were going to say, that very serious mission, called the Safe Sea, put in place by the Defense, appropriately imagined for the purposes of surveillance and safety of maritime traffic, as well as for the protection of our oil platforms, therefore of our energy and economic interests. However, the Safe Sea mission also seems to be affected by the emotional and humanitarian wave that envelops even the admirals who command it, who from the pages of the newspapers communicate all their emotions in carrying out the necessary rescues at sea. Rivers of rhetoric to gogò, even if the speaker of the parade of 2 June last, in illustrating the mission, has only thought to remember that this mission has distinguished itself for the numerous rescues operated, leaving out the real objectives for which it was born. Primary and very important objectives, and if the ships of the fleet are removed from their main task, the naval device placed to guarantee the safety fails. This does not mean, of course, that rescues must be avoided; it means, vice versa, that the emergency cannot continue indefinitely and that it is no longer possible, with the various operations put in place by the center-left governments, to send continuous encouraging messages to the desperate of an entire continent, who leave knowing that, so much, the Italian Navy will rescue them until under the Libyan coasts. It is not with the ship Cavour that these operations are carried out; if anything, with the ship Charon of the Railways of the State. Encouraging also means contributing to the many deaths that the crossing of hope entails. Not to mention the natural risks that uncontrolled immigration poses in terms of security, risks that cannot be denied either by the indelible useless words of the Minister of the Interior, or by the repeated statements of admirals and commanders put in charge of the missions, who always exclude such risk, marrying the watchwords of the Government. Ungoverned immigration, on the contrary, constitutes a very serious risk to security, which cannot be tackled in a light and distracted way, if it is true that nothing is known of tens of thousands of illegal immigrants landed in recent years on our coasts, whose traces have been lost. However, this continuation to ride the emotions to justify the reception at all costs has simply facilitated illegal immigration without having at all scratched the criminal organizations that profit from the phenomenon. And it is extremely ludicrous that the Premier insists on denying the emergency, preferring to insult political opponents who express different assessments, even calling them petty. Madam President, on the other hand, I find a Premier petty, who uses only the subject of senators' salaries in the various talk shows to justify the reform of the Senate. And it is truly disconcerting, not to say that arms fall, that a prime minister resorts to the worst populism, using arguments that are not up to a reform of the Constitution. To return to our topic, vice versa, the emergency exists and is under the eyes of all, destined to become worse with the summer in progress, and it will not be the reception at all costs to solve this epochal problem. On the other hand, we believe that the Government must, once and for all, use itself to protect and defend our borders, according to our interests, which, in the first place, provide for the rapid and fundamental stabilisation of Libya and the consequent control of its coasts, as well as the creation of extraterritorial zones, where we can examine those who are entitled to refugee status and those who are not. Agreements with Tunisia and Egypt are also needed in this respect. Unfortunately, with this last country the climate is not serene for the known events and perhaps it would be advisable to ask whether the Italian Government has moved adequately to have the truth about the case of the young Italian murdered. For our part, we believe that opposition can not only drive the truth away, but also undermine our national and strategic interests. Many migrants, in fact, sail from Egypt which, moreover, in Libya supports General Haftar, opposed by our Government, despite being the only one recognized by the international community, until yesterday. We are Egypt's second largest trading partner after Germany. We ask ourselves, therefore, if the erase of all this, as someone claims, can deprive us of the possibility of demanding forcefully, but without impatiently, the truth about the case of Regens. Already the ambassador's call would seem to be a coercion, even if the Egyptians were uncooperative. But it is a way of doing, that of the Italian Government, mostly based on emotional pressures imposed by the media, which will hardly allow you to discover the truth about this crime. A serious government, on the other hand, demands the truth forcefully working at all levels, with diplomacy and even under the table, safeguarding at the same time relations with an allied country and our interests, avoiding to exploit the drama of a family that has lost a child in a barbaric way. It is therefore not useful to introduce amendments which tend to exacerbate the climate, while understanding the symbolic gesture of the proposers in the request to suspend the delivery of spare parts for F-16 aircraft, thereby weakening a country in the fight against terrorism. It is not with symbolic measures, perhaps designed to give a condolence to the left wing of the PD, a fan of the Muslim Brotherhood, who will take steps towards the truth about the story of the Italian researcher. Then have the courage, Lords of the Government, to withdraw the ENI from Egypt, from Zadar, where the most important gas field has been found. Thinking of bending a military regime with demagogic economic measures is quite ridiculous and also hypocritical. To return to the missions, this Government has been drowning in recent months, breaking the eardrums to the whole world, claiming the command of an international coalition to stabilize Libya. A craving for command and a craving for results then useless, considering that the newly constituted Libyan government, does not consider the aid of an international coalition appropriate. Hence the renewed and appreciated caution of our Government, the main sponsor of Prime Minister Al-Sarraj, to whom he hopes to soon accredit himself to his people, while at the same time managing to successfully fight the terrorism installed in those parts, that is, behind the door of our home. It is useful, however, to remember that for us the greatest problem remains uncontrolled immigration and it is decisive in a short time to govern the Libyan coasts. Therefore, well the stabilisation of Libya, well the training of the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy, but without waiting for infinity, striving quickly to solicit measures to prevent the departure of the boats and to counter the trafficking of human beings, having, in any case, our country the professionalisms to dismantle the criminal networks that preside to the turbulent traffic. Therefore, the Italian Government must commit itself to this goal by avoiding that caution and prudence should not become a guilty hibernation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marton is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u26	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to keep to the acts that Senator Marton has not given up, and that because of the reversal of the agenda, which was not planned, the senators who are currently at COPASIR cannot take part in this sitting. At this moment Senator Marton is at COPASIR and he cannot do his speech for this reason and not because he has renounced it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u27	Senator Santangelo, however Senator Marton had been warned of this reversal. We take note of your clarification, but you have been warned. The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Sangalli.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u28	Madam President, the speeches that have followed would require a timely response and also a reaffirmation of our foreign policy strategy, which I believe was largely explained in the reports we have brought to this House. The only things I want to stress, in order to give the political framework of the circumstances in which we operate, are the following: the military missions we are about to vote and approve are not rituals that are repeated every year. They are the living commitment of a great country, as is ours, in an attempt to stabilize the areas of crisis of the world and to intervene in support of the populations that are in a condition of difficulty. There is no ritual in the commitment of thousands of our military that every day fill with pride and should fill our country with pride for the action they are doing. Just as it is not ritual the fact that, even with this measure, we decide to move a quota of military to protect the dam of Mossul and in support of the contingent already present and the Italian company that is called to operate to consolidate that infrastructure. If the United Nations projections are true, in the event of a unfortunate collapse of that dam or an accident, hundreds of thousands would indeed be the victims. But above all, there would be a water shortage for an entire area of 200 million people, and one of the biggest humanitarian disasters would occur. But not only for this we are there; we are also there to affirm the fact that that dam, which is a product of Italian engineering and talent, is one of the interventions that Italy does abroad demonstrating its own level of entrepreneurial, technological and its own great cultural level. Part of this intervention of an entrepreneurial and technological nature also sees the commitment of the State in support of the companies involved and in support of a great humanitarian need. We must be at the dam of Mosul and we must strengthen our military contingent. As I believe we must be committed - as we have already said several times here - to the stabilisation of the situation in Libya. The situation in Libya is changing rapidly. For a few months a government has been established with many difficulties: some ministries have begun to settle in the capital, but it is still necessary for this authority to assert itself in that country. Well, this stabilisation is necessary and fundamental in order also to be able to evolve our policy in the Mediterranean and the policy towards the refugees in the Mediterranean. I must say that I have heard curious things today, including the fact that the people who sink on the boats would be the rich people who come from Africa and who can afford the trip. Things that would be curious if they did not have a profile of difficulty in understanding a process that is not only towards Italy and involves not only our country but a global process that sees the displacement of entire peoples and that we certainly cannot face alone, but with greater convergence with Europe and the other great world powers. The stabilisation of Libya is an absolutely fundamental fact, just as it is essential that there be the garrison of the sea not for a proper rescue of the shipwrecked - because saving the shipwrecked is what we have to do when there are shipwrecked - but because we have to guard the Mediterranean, have our military contingents as garrison of the Mediterranean, is what we have to do when we want to be a power that wants to play a European role and a global role. We have also tabled an amendment - symbolic it is true, I mean it because we will talk about it - which concerns the supply of airplane parts to Egypt. It is - I repeat - an absolutely symbolic amendment, a signal that Parliament wants to give to the Government, which is also put back to Parliament, because it cannot go into the background of the very painful affair that this House has also seen committed to asking the Egyptian Government to clarify and give support to our judiciary over the very violent murder of the young Regeni, which took place in Egypt. Of course it is a story that has dark profiles but it is not an affair from which we derive a change of attitude towards Egypt that we know well to be a power engaged against terrorism, a great Arab country complex, we well know to be a country that has many connections with us; and we know that precisely by virtue of the friendship that has linked us to this country we need that on a story like this there be clarity. Giving a strong symbolic signal is one thing, to say that it would rather be better to break economic relations with Egypt is a different kind of consideration and it was not at all in our intention to propose corbellerias of this kind. With Egypt we have very intense relations and relations but relations between two great countries qualify even if they respect each other. A country that has repeatedly denied itself about this rather complex affair must allow our authorities, together with their own, to shed full light on it. Inside the missions there is our foreign policy, within our foreign policy there is the attitude of a country that is a middle world country but that plays a leading role in international politics. On the other hand, our strategic position, the economic condition and the position of bridge between the Mediterranean and Europe, between the West and Islam, require us, today as in the past, to be a point of connection between different worlds. In military missions there is this function. I too am of the idea - although this is not my responsibility - that we should address it, as we did to the Senate and the House, with a framework law on military missions that allows us to define with stable planning of the Government, our commitment to military intervention as part of our foreign policy. This is what we should be doing next year, but this year the intervention is already over the whole year and not for the next six months, as it usually was. It is already a longer programming over time. It is a step forward that Parliament has shared with the Government and that I believe that this decree-law, which sets out our missions, is confirming both the logic and the objectives and the intentions, both in the practices that are being implemented, and in the seriousness with which we behave in military politics as well as in international politics. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u29	I call the rapporteur, Senator Vattuone.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u30	Madam President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u31	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u32	Madam President, I think there is little to add to what the rapporteur has already said; only three specifics. Firstly, with regard to the framework law, we have always stressed that the Government is absolutely in favour and has followed the formulation of the framework law from the outset. In this sense, we continue to be close to all parliamentary activities related to the framework law and, also from the point of view of government activity, we believe that it is absolutely important that the law be passed as soon as possible. The second specification concerns the legal cover of military personnel, recalled by Senator Divina. The legal cover does not exist, as the decree-law clearly covers the retroactive part which, in the initial phase, could seem uncovered. Finally, with regard to NEVFOR Med, which has been specifically referred to by Senator Alicata, I believe that we must refer, from the point of view of the Government's commitment, to the resolution adopted yesterday. In this regard, the Government undertakes to ensure that, as soon as possible, the start of phase 3 of the EUNAVFOR Med mission, which will allow entry into the Libyan territorial waters to prevent boat departures and combat trafficking in human beings, can be put in place in the relevant locations (UN and Libyan Government), and should this not be practicable within a reasonable period of time, the possibility of suspending the current phase 2. I believe that this commitment, which is from yesterday, gives two types of response: one on the temporal part, another on the essential purpose of EUNAVFOR Med, which in its constitution and formulation was related not to humanitarian aid, but to the defeat of human trafficking.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u33	Having not received the opinion of the Budget Commission, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u36	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I find myself once again denouncing the problem of water pollution; water that we all drink and enter the food circle (so we all take this polluted water). In Veneto were discovered in the drinking waters polluted by PFAS, chemicals. The problem is that we do not have a clear legislative situation, so all that has been done is to start a biomonitoring of the inhabitants. So millions of people still ignore their condition. Blood tests are being carried out, but millions of Venetians are ignoring their condition. Our legislation has basically decided not to decide. In fact, we have transposed a reference directive, which dates back to 2013, but, in transposing it, we simply said that the regions will have to comply with environmental quality standards by 2018. We have, therefore, transposed the 2013 directive and we have said that by 2018 we will have to respect quality standards: we have decided not to decide, but only to postpone. Basically, no one pays for poisoning the water. And I repeat the term "poisoned": in this case we speak of poison of the worst species, which accumulates in human tissues and, in the end, simply kills us. We are in the classical situation in which, for the umpteenth time, instead of applying the precautionary principle in practice (I am not sure of the damage, so I abstain from poisoning), we have applied the opposite principle: we are not sure, so we go on like this, we poison. Not only do we get poisoned, but we also pay: at this moment it is the municipalities that pay the filters out of their own pocket to buffer the situation. So companies pollute and we pay. In this case it would take Totò, but I'm not good at imitating him. In all this the Ministry is silent: the mayors interested in the situation have asked for directions from the Ministry of Health, but so far they have received no response on this matter. Attention, this is the tip of the iceberg: in this case, in fact, I told you about PFAS, about chemicals, but there are also others; in the province of Vicenza, for example, hexavalent chromium was also found. We are in a situation where kilometres of asbestos are found in the Eternit coatings; paints, solvents, lead batteries and dust are found in the warehouses. We suffer the damage and the mockery, which consists in the fact that they tell us not to worry because polluted water is not used for food purposes, but only to irrigate. I repeat, the damage and the mockery: they tell us not to worry because the water is used only to irrigate. Is that the answer? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u39	MIRABELLI (PD). Madam President, with a question of 9 July 2013, we had already put to the attention of the Ministry of the Interior the need to remedy a situation that today in fact prevents different Churches and religious confessions from obtaining the recognition of their ministers of worship. With that question it was pointed out that to date the limits posed by an interpretation of the Council of State for the appointment of ministers of worship made it more difficult to conclude the paths in progress for the signing of agreements and conventions between State and religious confessions. Not only that, all this has had and has a negative effect on the possibility for many Churches to work and carry out their mission in this country and reduces the spaces of freedom, risking to contradict a fundamental constitutional right, as it is precisely to be able to practice their faith for all Italian citizens. More recently, on 12 April 2016, the Government, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, accepted an agenda that commits it to reconsider a reduction in the numerical limits of the faithful necessary for the approval and recognition of ministers of worship, taking into account the different criteria of aggregation of religious confessions on the territories and in any case not to set this limit at least to 500, as it is now. In essence, in these three years the Parliament, the Government itself and much of the political forces have expressed themselves in order to resolve a situation that is causing difficulties in the exercise of cults for many Churches and is putting in difficulty the same possibility to carry out the functions of assistance that are proper to many Churches. Not only that. We must put an end to a situation that risks weakening the necessary clear, regulated and transparent relationship between the State and some religions. In these months, even after the government's approval of the agenda, many ministers of worship are submitting requests for recognition. Madam President, I do this because the things I have briefly summarized concern important issues such as freedom of religion, but also the recognition of the role of assistance that the ministers of worship of many religions play in prisons, hospitals and the poor. That is why, Madam President, I would ask you to take an active part in this speech because the resolution of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the acts of inspection union proposed by a large part of Parliament will immediately be put into practice. I believe it is by now indisputable and no longer repostable to arrive at a resolution by the Minister of the Interior that puts in place all the necessary measures to restore the possibility for all the Churches and for all the cults respectful of the constitutional dictates to ask for the recognition of their ministers of worship.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u42	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the planning of work becomes difficult for a group at the time when a measure is being discussed by reversing the agenda. I would just point out that at the beginning of the sitting we could not follow the timetable provided for because the opinion of the 5th Commission was lacking. This is how we moved on to this new measure, reversing the agenda. We are now stopping because the opinion of the 5th Commission has not been received. The thing that complains, in order to be able to work properly, is that there is a minimum of agreed programming. Senators cannot be asked to run from a Commission to the House, as was the case with Senator Marton who was unable to take part in the general discussion. Senators do their work properly; however, it becomes difficult. Let's follow an order. Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to the need for the government to have at least respected and shared programming. You can't work like that. It is absurd to start a measure and then abandon it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u43	You are partly right about the question of linking up with the work of the Budget Commission. As regards this decree-law, the Commission concluded its examination in the early afternoon. Then amendments have been tabled which must have the opinion of the Budget Commission; we hope that they will be received by tomorrow morning. There is no doubt that there is a problem of linking up with the Budget Commission because it does not hinder the progress of this House's work. As far as Senator Marton is concerned, I'm very sorry he wasn't here. We tried to warn him, but he was obviously busy. Tomorrow, when I explain the amendments relating to the first article, I hope that we can catch up with more time. I think we can try to "repare" him and allow him to express his position.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u44	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-648.ana.u45	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 29 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.21 a.m.
