ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. Question 3-03005 on the involvement of police officers in the incidents at the G8 in Genoa in 2001 will be carried out first. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators Campanella and Bocchino call for clarification of the measure, which they considered unfair and detrimental to the image of Italy and the Forces of Order, with which the head of the Police pro tempore, Alessandro Pansa, ordered in March 2014 a significant reduction of the disciplinary sanction imposed on the assistant chief of the Police, Massimo Nucera, for the false statements made in relation to the break-in at the Diaz school on the night of 21 July 2001, during the G8 in Genoa. For the purpose of the reply, I think it is useful to briefly retrace the procedural and disciplinary events that affected Mr Nucera following the police operation just mentioned. It is useful to make available the overall framework of criminal and disciplinary sanctions imposed on the assistant chief for the conduct carried out during the events of the G8, noting, among other things, that the sanction referred to in the question was not the only disciplinary sanction adopted against the assistant chief. Mr Nucera, at first instance, was acquitted of charges of false ideology and aggravated slander, while in the second instance the Court of Appeal of Genoa sentenced him for the first of the two crimes to three years and eight months of imprisonment, condoned to the extent of three years due to the indult and, in addition, to the ancillary penalty of ban from public offices for five years. For the crime of slander, however, the Court of Appeal itself declared the prescription. The criminal proceedings continued before the Court of Cassation which, in July 2012, annulled without deferment the judgment under appeal limited to the penalty imposed for the crime of forgery, redefining the sentence in three years and five months of imprisonment, condoned - as said - to the extent of three years, without prejudice to the prohibition from public offices for five years. Following the passage in court of the sentence, the head of the Police ordered, by decision of July 9, 2012, the immediate suspension of Mr Nucera from the qualification for the duration of the main and ancillary penalty and, therefore, for a total of five years and five months. For the same facts defined in criminal proceedings, two separate disciplinary actions were brought against Mr Nucera. The first, which is the one to which the interrogators refer, ended with a provision that the head of the Police, in the exercise of the discretionary powers conferred on him by law, issued following an overall assessment of the position of the person concerned. The second disciplinary action was brought against Mr Nucera in his capacity as a judicial police officer, on the initiative of the Attorney General at the Court of Appeal of Genoa. In May 2015, at the end of the first stage of the procedure, the disciplinary commission established at the above-mentioned Court of Appeal imposed suspension from employment for forty-five days. The action brought by the person concerned against this measure is still pending. This is the reconstruction of the facts, to the conclusion of which I recall that Mr Nucera is still suspended from the service, with the relative reduction of the monthly salary, and will remain in this situation for over a year.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u7	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, Minister, let us all remember the wound you have formed for the honour of the Forces of Order, for the honour of our Republic, the behaviour held at the Diaz School in Genoa. What has happened is of enormous gravity and is mainly detectable by those who have esteemed, like us, the Forces of Order and the way in which, as a rule, they carry out their duty. Mr. Nucera went through a series of judicial and disciplinary measures and was lucky enough to benefit from the indult and prescription for part of the penalties he should actually suffer. This did not happen. You referred, in your reply, to the exercise of the discretion of the chief of police. That's what we're referring to. The exercise of this discretionary power - which reduces in an important way the administrative penalty imposed by the commission - seems to us, in this case, to be in a clear way with the common feeling of all those who know the facts of Genoa. Above all, we are talking about a person who, by his behavior and decisions, does not seem to regret what happened, his participation in those facts. That is why I cannot say that I am satisfied: I believe that the Government, first of all of all political parties, must take responsibility for the defence of the honour of the Forces of Order, which is dear to all of us.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u8	The following is Question 3-0040 on the failure of the Mayor of Bagheria, in the province of Palermo, to present the report on the state of implementation of the programme. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u9	Mr President, Senator Campanella laments the failure of the Mayor of Bagheria to present the written report to the City Council on the state of implementation of the programme and on the activity carried out, as required by Article 17 of the Sicilian Regional Law No 7 of 1992. In relation to such non-compliance, it asks the Ministry of the Interior to urge the competent council of the Sicilian Region to the timely application of the norm dictated by the Sicilian regional law n. 48 of 1991, which provides the removal or suspension of directors in the case of serious and persistent violations of law. First of all, it should be stressed that the initiatives aimed at promoting the removal of the mayor of Bagheria, for the reasons set out in the question, are reserved for the strict competence of the regional administration. This said, it must also be represented that on 5 April last the council member of the local autonomy and the public service of the Sicilian Region carried out an inspection survey against the Municipality of Bagheria in order to verify, among other things, the circumstance relative to the failure to present by the Mayor of the aforementioned written report. The findings actually showed that from the date of the establishment of the first citizen, dating back to June 2014, on the date of the inspection, the performance did not appear to have been carried out. The said council member also reported what the municipal administration said about the matter, namely that the delay in the presentation of the report would have been determined by the amount of work, ordinary and extraordinary, connected with the state of failure of the local authority, as well as the need to prepare all the acts required by the extraordinary winding-up body. According to the municipal administration, the failure to comply with the legal obligation would also depend on the remodulation of the administrative apparatus within the municipality, the subject of a redefinition in the perspective of a rationalization of the expenses consequent to the state of failure of the local agency. As for the most recent developments in the matter, I inform you that on 5 September last the regional councillor of the local autonomy and the civil service formally warned the mayor to present the report in question, warning that the failure to comply is relevant for the initiation of the removal procedure. At the same time, the city council member has arranged, through the competent inspection office, for periodic monitoring of the performance of the mayor's duties in the matter in question. On 29 September, the mayor of Bagheria, in response to the warning, informed the regional council member that he had sent the report in question, covering the periods 2014-2015 and 2015-2016, to the President of the City Council for the follow-up of competence. This was the result of the investigation carried out by the offices of the Viminale.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u12	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, the Bagheria affair has many implications: first of all it shows the difficulty arising from the current legislation in carrying out our control action. This should be amended following the delegation law on the reform of the public administration, which has not been implemented in this respect, in the sense of allowing Members direct access to the acts, since the implementing decrees have not been issued. We are talking about several questions, the first of which I think goes back to May 2015: time is not indifferent in these acts, also because over time you can come to create conditions of substantial disregard for the law. I would like to explain: my question follows a series of questions tabled and attempts at access to documents, put in place by two members of the Municipality of Bagheria, Mr Cirano and Mrs Vella, to whom no reply has been obtained. It should be noted here that we are faced with a substantial lack of recognition of the function of political control which the representative Assembly must be able to carry out with regard to the Executive, in this case the mayor. Looking now on the specific case of the administration of Bagheria, which has put in place a series of acts that at this moment I believe are under the scrutiny of the judiciary (also by virtue of an exposition I presented), there is a problem of the functioning of the correct relationship between mayor and council and I am also afraid of the operation of the control by the city council, which has been activated with its own times (we speak of reports made over a year). According to reports no older than a couple of hours, the report - as the mayor has said and I have no reason to doubt it - has now been sent to the President (who is from the same party as the mayor), who is considering it very carefully on the spot, on his own behalf and without talking to the Council, waiting for this request to be repeated and the controls carried out de visu, and no response has yet been given. We are therefore faced with operational problems, because we exercise a remote control anyway, expected that the first control takes place by the Region. The latter, for reasons which I am not informed of, has an attitude of inertia, I hope not of omission: we are in the balance between the two terms. We find ourselves faced with the need for control that must be carried out, also in order to give political responses to the territory, but that in fact is not put in place. Therefore I hope and count, knowing his diligence, that there is a continuation in the action of solicitation towards the administration of the Sicilian Region, in such a way that the right right of citizens to be informed about the work of their administration has an adequate satisfaction.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u13	The following is the question 3-03161 on the deletion of a banner by the police during a political demonstration. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u14	Mr President, Senator Malan is critical of the operation of the Prato police station on the occasion of the public order services prepared for the visit of the President of the Council of Ministers to the capital of that province on 24 September. In particular, he complains that the partial removal of a banner of clear disapproval of the Government's action, posted by the provincial youth coordination of Forza Italia a few meters from a place where the President of the Council of Ministers would go the next day for a public initiative, would result in a violation of the freedom of manifestation of thought. As already represented by the Minister of the Interior in a recent session of question time in the Chamber, the episode was evidently the result of a prudential evaluation carried out in the context of the scrupulous and targeted surveillance, observation and prevention services activated in the area of the Pecci museum, theatre of the institutional visit of the President of the Council; prudential evaluation aimed at preventing the display of the banner in a position of extreme evidence, while constituting free expression of dissent, could give rise to disturbance of public order. The decision of the staff of the local police station to partially remove the banner shall be interpreted by that visual angle and no censoring intent shall be attributed to it. Moreover, the said staff, in the logic of a civil dialogue, tried to contact the authors of the banner to invite them to remove it, but failed to do so, as they were not present on the spot. Therefore, in giving notice that the banner did not contain offensive or threatening phrases and that what expressed in it was part of a framework of free and legitimate manifestation of thought, which must always be allowed, I repeat however that the behavior, even dialogue, of the Forces of order has been aimed exclusively at removing any obstacle to the orderly success of the event. On a more general level, the story constitutes the further evidence that the activity of the police forces engaged in public order services presents profiles of considerable delicacy, having to realize a fair contemplation between the guarantee of constitutional rights of assembly and manifestation of thought and the need for the maintenance of order and public security. The difficulty of the task arises also from the fact that such types of services often require evaluations and decisions not simple in scenarios characterized by operational criticalities. However, I assure you that the police forces will continue to play, in Prato as in the rest of the national territory, the role of guardians of the serene and regular conduct of every peaceful initiative, that it is legitimate manifestation of freedom of thought, including - of course - those that express themselves through the display of banners.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u17	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Secretary, I am far from being satisfied with your reply, which I find deeply disturbing and which I think could have been given in this House perhaps 80 years ago, when a banner on the Duce would have been removed for reasons very similar to those you have just described. The words used are disturbing. When you said that it was necessary to prevent the banner from disturbing public order, did you mean that it was necessary to prevent - I do not know - President-in-Office's supporters from throwing Molotov bombs against the seat of Forza Italia? What are these public order disturbances? Then there is one thing that allows me to call ridiculous. You said, Mr. Undersecretary, that you tried to contact the managers of the local headquarters of Forza Italia. However, this has happened in the middle of the night and it is difficult for local managers (who, as well known, do their work in a completely free way) to spend the night in the venue; in any case, whether the work is free or paid, there is hardly anyone in the seat of any party at that time of night. This attitude has been defined as a dialogue, where the dialogue consists in saying that at 3 o'clock in the night we tried to contact those in charge of the headquarters. It is also particularly disturbing that you said that the police will continue to do so. This, Mr. Undersecretary, is a threat. I understand that you come here to read things written by others (I apologize), but it is you who choose to read them and so it is you and the Minister who gives you the powers that you assume responsibility for them. I would add that you, Mr. Undersecretary, have not answered my questions. My question is as follows: do you consider the measure unlawful? If it's illegal, you need to remove the quaestor. Since the Quaestors and the Commander of the Carabinieri of Arezzo have been removed for not having struck with sufficient harshness those who were wronged to challenge Minister Boschi who was visiting that city (which is his), then perhaps it would have been appropriate to take measures. If you tell me, on the other hand, that this measure is legitimate, I have asked what are the criteria in general for the eligibility of banners. It cannot be said, as it was written in the banner, "Forza Italia Prato." Renzi failed? Can't you say "Renzi you failed"? You can say: "Renzi are good, but not so good"? Can you say that? Or should we say: "Heviva Renzi" or "Renzi" is always right? Or do you have to write "Renzi" and just "Renzi," as reported - evidently with a name different from that of Renzi - on a beautiful obelisk still visible a few kilometers from here? You did not answer this question because you could not answer it. You should take action against the quaestor, who has, among other things, damaged something that is owned not by the state, but by young people who have probably given up going to the cinema to make the banner. This sacrifice can be dealt with, but if you start to destroy the artifacts of the opposition, then it is useless to say that if yes there is the danger of regime: that danger is already there now, let alone yes. I recall that this incident took place at an event where the President of the Council was there not only to represent the state, but also to make propaganda for the yes to the constitutional referendum. The banner didn't say "We need to vote no" but "Renzi" failed. It must be said: "Renzi is good"? Mr Secretary, unfortunately your reply is not planned, but I would like to renew a question which has already been put to you in the question. Is Renzi good? Can you say "Renzi" is good, but not always "Renzi"? You probably can't tell. Mr Undersecretary, I will send your reply, along with what - I learned a few minutes before the beginning of the sitting - was given to the Chamber of Deputies by Minister Alfano, to international organisations dealing with human rights and to determine whether the current referendum campaign is being done as it should be in a democratic country, or whether we are already in a dictatorial regime where we cannot say: "Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you failed." Renzi, in fact, failed his mission, which should be the defense of democracy and the Constitution, as he swore. I recall that the Constitution includes Article 21, which states freedom of expression. [[Applause from Senators Bottici, Candiani and Taverna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u18	On behalf of the House, I greet the delegation of MPs and officials from the Myanmar Parliament, accompanied by Senator Albertina Soliani, who are attending our work from the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u19	Question 3-03131 on the conversion of Cerimant's sheds in Rome follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u20	Mr President, I am referring to the question by which Senator Taverna, together with other fellow senators, asks Minister Franceschini about the inclusion of the Cerimant barracks project in the list of interventions for the protection and enhancement of cultural heritage, under the "Tourism and Culture" plan, to be financed by the allocation of EUR 1 billion to the 2014-2020 Development and Cohesion Fund. In this regard, the senator refers to an article on "Il Fatto Quotidiano" on 6 May, in which, among other things, the Minister's wife was explicitly mentioned, adding that "it does not appear to the interrogators that the Minister or the Councillor, Mrs Di Biase, have made public denial of the journalistic reconstructions." This is an untrue assertion. The honourable Members have deliberately ignored the Minister's point of reply, which was published with adequate evidence by the same newspaper the next day, on 7 May. I can therefore confine myself to recalling what the Minister himself has written and published in the same newspaper you refer to and which I read: It's true. Among the thirty-three interventions financed with one billion euros by CIPE, one of the most important, qualitatively and quantitatively, is the recovery of the Cerimant barracks of Tor Sapienza. Alongside projects related to prestigious buildings in the historic centers, there are in fact some who try to intervene in the redevelopment of the urban suburbs, true Italian challenge of the coming years and due commitment to a truly progressive and left-wing culture. In this case we are talking about an abandoned area of the army, located in that very Roman outskirts that only two years ago was the scene of tensions between citizens and immigrants and that will become a place for culture and creativity, modelled on the famous "104" realized on the outskirts of Paris. Let's see in your opinion what CIPE should have done: give up this operation, so concretely and symbolically important, because up to three years ago my wife, born and raised in another outskirts near Tor Sapienza (Alessandrino), was, and long before meeting me, municipal councilman? And since in 2013 she was elected city councilman, thus making her "feudo," according to your clever way of thinking, the whole of Rome, should we have renounced to finance also the National Gallery of Modern Art or Palazzo Barberini?! And for the same reason we should have renounced to finance the completion of the National Museum of Judaism and Shoah because it is found in my "feud" of Ferrara, or the Uffizi because in the "feud" of the President of the Council or even the Royal Museums because in the "feud" of Fassino or Paestum because in that of De Luca and so on? That is the answer that the Minister had published on the Daily Fact, and that is the answer I give you here in this House today.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u23	TAVERNA (M5S). I now learn that the answer was published the day after the article was released and I find it absolutely offensive that it is said that it deliberately brought the matter back to the Minister's attention knowing already that there was a denial. This did not happen, because I ask a question and I may not have seen a possible answer, although I did not intend to be lacking in that regard and therefore ask the Minister for an answer, should he have already given it to me: I thank him, therefore, but he could have Save it. However, the focus was more on the fact that 40 million - you made a list of them - had been allocated to the redevelopment of a site that in our opinion might not have the same importance as other situations that had been listed, such as the gallery of Brera, the Uffizi of Florence, Pompeii (which falls apart) or the Palace of Caserta. I therefore believe that the questioner had every right to know whether he was part of the plan and whether it was necessary, given also the possibility of being induced (in this case it happened to me) to suspect that the Minister had allocated these 40 million to a redevelopment which I have not yet begun and which was certainly less important than other projects. I say this also in relation to the fact that there was this suspected closeness with the (potentially meritorious) intention of the Minister to dedicate himself to the outskirts, also considering that the outskirts of Rome are several and have not had any kind of attention when you were the ones to govern the Capital. I repeat, I will make amends if, as the Undersecretary has said, there has already been an answer that I was not aware of.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u24	Following is the question 3-02659 on an episode of malasanity at the Sant'Anna Archespedale in Ferrara. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u25	Mr President, with regard to this parliamentary question, we are responding on the basis of the information provided by the competent prefecture and requested by us. In particular, the same communicated that on January 4, 2016, the lady whom we indicate with the initials FL appeared in the obstetric emergency room of the hospital-university company in Ferrara and, after evaluations, at 00.43 on January 5, was admitted to the department. From the report sent from the council member to the health policies of the Emilia-Romagna Region through the aforementioned prefecture, it is evident that it was proposed to the lady to carry out the labor in water: this method is proposed as a natural method to counter the pain, according to the health care involved, and is also proposed in women already routed to the path of epidural analgesia. The documentation in the folder shows that the labor took place in the water. As regards the alleged misposition of the fetus at the time of delivery, as well as the violent extraction maneuver that is implicitly held responsible for the injuries found on the child after childbirth, it is specified that the health documentation - says the Emilia-Romagna Region - does not show a misposition of the fetus: in particular, the child has presented himself at the canal of delivery in cephalic position that, according to health care, does not seem compatible with fetal mispositioning. The documentation (which the Region has seen and transmitted to us) notes that childbirth was spontaneous with OISA vertex presentation (which is the correct position) with associated limb. The reconstruction of the events, carried out once again by the health director in collaboration with the obstetrician's health care, shows that the commitment of the head and arm has been resolved by an accompanying maneuver carried out by the doctor who assisted the delivery during a contraction. The origin of the clavicle fracture, subsequently found through radiological control and not immediately detected, is highly likely to occur at this stage, as the clavicle fracture appeared at first compound. On the other hand, the gastric, splenic and pulmonary lesions found after the estubation do not appear to be relevant to the expulsion period. The clinical records of the first few minutes after childbirth show an apgar at the first minute of 8 and an apgar at the fifth minute of 10. This documentation indicates a regular neonatal transition. The content of the question describes the successive phases of the assistance, highlighting: the appearance of the symptoms of the digestive haemorrhage (non-physiological event), the aspiration through nasogastric probe and the administration of antihaemorrhagic, the latter are routine procedures performed in the assistance to the physiological newborn. Similarly, the regurgitation of amniotic fluid, diamniotic fluid and mucus is to be considered as one of the physiological events. Finally, it is confirmed that the administration of antihaemorrhagic is a practice in neonatal care and, in the opinion of doctors, should not be related to the bleeding for haematemesis that was found later. The first neonatological visit, carried out at 16,15 on January 05, 2016, showed facies from stasis, which is a not exceptional and transitory event in the vaginal parts (of which, in general, spontaneous regression is expected in the next 48 hours) and can occur even in the absence of the engagement of the arm in the delivery channel. On the evening of 5 January, the nursing diary revealed "several regurgitations of amniotic fluid, mucus and chicory." At 1.30 a.m. on 6 January, the same nurse detected "plenty of digested blood and live red" so the doctor was immediately alerted to the neonatal intensive care. The latter, which occurred almost at 1.30 a.m. on 6 January, carried out gastrolusis and the clinical evaluation of entry into the haematemesis department. On this occasion a blood count and coagulation sample was taken, the results of which, according to this diary, reported normal values. After a few hours in which the clinical picture remained stable, in the morning the child began to bleed again and, therefore, consultation of paediatric surgery and digestive endoscopy was sought; the haematological tests that showed a significant anemification and radiological tests that showed a pneumoperitoneum were repeated. Blood transfusion of concentrated red blood cells and plasma was performed. From the documentation sent by the health department it appears that the specific examination has been carried out to investigate ematemesis. Following the instrumental clinical investigations, the indication was given to an exploratory laparotomy surgery that showed a lesion of the large gastric curvature and two lacerations of the splenic capsule. The injuries were repaired successfully. After the surgery, the small patient was in assisted ventilation for 48 hours, with a completely regular course. After the extubation, at approximately 24 hours after the clinical documentation, there was an opacation on the left lung. For this reason, a bronchial endoscopy has been requested which has enabled the resolution of the atelettactic framework. On this occasion, the composite fracture of the right clavicle was also detected. The small MC, born on January 5, 2016, was discharged to twenty-three days of life in good general condition. On 22 January 2016, the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Ferrara, presumably on exposed-complaint of the parents FL and CV, requested the acquisition of the medical records related to Mrs. FL and the small MC, which were delivered. Subsequently, on 25 January 2016, the prosecutor appointed the M.E., pursuant to Article 389 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to ascertain any liability of health care professionals. The investigation is still ongoing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u28	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. Undersecretary, thank you for your reply compared to a story from a few months ago. It is a case, in my opinion, which remains emblematic of complicated health care. I don't want to catalog it as bad. I take note of the clarifications provided, which will be the subject of reflection and comparison with the people who have experienced this experience. However, I think it is useful to have carried out this inspection activity because, in our action, in addition to dealing with the great questions of a general, ordinamental nature, we also have the duty to raise individual events that can serve as a warning, a reminder, in order to stimulate the activity of verification of the Ministry, the realities of the territory. The data provided by the Undersecretary came from the prefecture and, however, the investigations can be used to ensure that this structure, the Sant'Anna archispedale in Ferrara, can manage with greater caution the various health situations. But beware of events like this, because the answer reconstructs a very articulated picture of this birth and of all the events that have occurred; but it is a case like many. Moreover, the child has overcome the situation, despite injuries and scars due also to the interventions and to what was mentioned in the reply, which obviously the question - which I am not repeating here - illustrated. Scars and permanent consequences have been there, but the child is alive and this is the essential and prevailing fact. However, the very reconstruction of the story, made by the Undersecretary De Filippo, denotes a complexity of events that, according to the reconstruction, were almost inevitable and physiological but, in my opinion and in the opinion of the people who have experienced this experience, they probably got worse also because of the management of the event, for a administration of drugs and a succession of facts that have probably caused a situation of serious danger, even of life, that fortunately did not have a negative outcome. I take note of the answer, Secretary, which I consider positive from the point of view of ascertaining, verifying and as a reminder of the fact that - we are from the Senate - individual cases also need a reflector. It will also serve to stimulate more attention. We know all the problems of the birth wards at the time of the restructuring; many are closing, because they do not have an adequate number of parts. The birth in Italy is also a problem from the point of view of numbers and from the social point of view, of housing, of demographic trends; but, sometimes, also the management of these departments (when not even their suppression in so many parts of Italy, because there is no number of births that, according to some parameters, would justify its survival) appears more important than is said. I take note of the data provided and I hope that those who have experienced this experience can compare them with what has happened, and above all that this child, like all those born in Italy, can wish a long and serene life.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u29	The following are questions 3-03175, 3-03211 and 3-03213 on the assignment of management positions at Aifa. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u30	We are responding together to these questions, on the basis of the documents we have asked for and which the Italian Medicines Agency has provided us with. Before entering into the substance of the other questions asked, some specific details are given regarding the setting-up by Aifa of a stand in the framework of the Rimini Meeting of the Communion and Liberation Movement. In this regard, it seems appropriate to point out that this type of setting up of the Aifa at the exhibition "Meeting" in Rimini is not a novelty, but is dating back to time. In fact, it has already participated in the years 2006, 2007 and 2008, as well as other state and local public administrations participating in that initiative. And indeed, the Aifa reports that the choice to set up its own exhibition space within the framework of the aforementioned event must be framed in a precise investment policy in information and promotion activities, aimed at giving adequate account of the Agency's commitment to the health system of our country. In order to proceed with that set-up, a regular request for purchase was made at the administrative affairs, accounting and budget office, motivated by the fact that the institutional presentation of the Aifa at the event would have constituted an important possibility of interaction with the citizens, patients and the media that would certainly have participated in it, which was subsequently supplemented by an explanatory report on the reasons behind the choice. Moreover, the Aifa communicates that the top management of the Agency are not enrolled, let alone militants of Communion and Liberation. Turning then to the specific questions of the questioning honourable Members, it is represented that, as regards the assumption of Dr. Caterina Latronico and Dr. Gianluca Polifrone, which took place more than a year apart from each other, in ways and for completely distinct professional profiles, it should be recalled that the board of directors of Aifa, with Resolution No. 36 of 14 October 2014 (therefore two years before the assumption of Dr. Polifrone and well distant also from the conclusion of the convention between Aifa and Consip, variedly commented in the two questions, occurred only in March 2015), had approved a project aimed at the development of the international role of Aifa and the carrying out of new activities in the European and international contexts, providing for the assumption of three units to contract a project for the duration of three years. On 15 January 2015, Public Notice No 15 and Public Notice No 16 were published, with which, following the negative outcome of the internal reconnaissance for professional figures necessary for the development of the project (mandatory procedure before proceeding to the next phase), the procedure for recruiting the three resources banned was activated. On 18 March 2015, following the selection conducted by the examining committee, chaired by the head of international relations (doctor Conti) and composed of the head of anti-corruption (doctor Di Giorgio) and the head of the legal area (lawyer Mastroianni), the results were published, identifying three candidates, including Dr. Caterina Latronico, as more qualified figures to hold such positions. Dr. Latronico has entered into a three-year project contract with Aifa, with an annual gross compensation of 45,000 euros, so far away from the 135,000 euros a year that may be mistakenly referred to in the question submitted by Senator Taverna. Moreover, the contractual typology and the functions carried out point to the fact that Dr. Latronico has never assumed, nor can she have, in virtue of the current working relationship that binds her to the Aifa, any role or function of a managerial type. As regards the appointment of Dr. Polifrone as director of the technical secretariat of the Directorate-General, it should be recalled that the assignment of the latter took place on the basis of a notice, published on 19 April 2016, which did not provide as a requirement for access the previous classification in managerial roles of the public administration. The curriculum vitae of Dr. Polifrone, attached to his application for participation in the selective procedure, outlines a highly qualified professional profile for the vacant position and the choice took place at the outcome of a punctual evaluation of all the applications submitted and of the consequent technical judgment, due to the proceeding administration, as the Aifa communicates. The task in question, therefore, was conferred on the basis of a discretionary technical assessment of Aifa, as a typical prerogative of public administrations, pursuant to Article 19 (6) of Legislative Decree No 165 of 2001 (better known as Brunetta law). Furthermore, the task of director of the technical secretariat of the Directorate-General, under the rules of organisation of Aifa, includes non-scientific but administrative competences, as evidenced by previous assignments of the same office. With regard to the hypothetical existence of causes of inconferibility and incompatibility, pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 39 of 2013 - Provisions in the matter of inconferibility and incompatibility of assignments to public administrations and to private entities in public control - pursuant to Article 1, paragraphs 49 and 50, of Law No. 190 of 6 November 2012, it is specified that the Aifa, in March 2015, has entered into an agreement for the carrying out of supporting activities in the matter of acquisition of goods and services with the Consip SpA, a body of origin of Dr. Polifrone. The candidate, to whom the appointment was given, did not hold the office of president within the Council SpA with direct management powers, neither as managing director, nor as executive director, nor did he carry out a permanent advisory activity in favour of Aifa, as he was framed in the Council SpA as a framework/official, with the role of account manager. A case of inconferibility of the assignment to Dr. Polifrone would have occurred only if, in the two years preceding the assignment of the assignment of job in the Aifa, he had held the positions of president with direct management delegated, managing director, positions of manager or the stable performance of activities of advising in favor of the agency, as indicated in the letter e), of Article 1 of Legislative Decree n. 39 of 2013. Moreover, the agreement for the acquisition of goods and services, still in existence between Aifa and Consip SpA, is founded, in the current legislation and in the will of the Italian Agency of the drug to avail of a public company such as Consip SpA, a company in house of the Ministry of Economy and Finance that carries out activities of central purchasing for public administrations to meet the objective of rationalizing expenditure. The Agency underlines that having carried out the race with the Consip SpA has produced, for the Aifa, in the phase of conclusion of contract, a saving of beyond 1,2 million euros (the old contract was more than 8 million euros, the new contract is pairs to 6.800.000 euros) without considering the various extensions on the old contract, that they have seen a total commitment of expenditure pairs to 14 million euros. To this it must be added that the new contract concluded through the Consip has brought to the Aifa significant improvements in the IT field, in line with the Digital Agenda, such as: payment systems; adhesion and performance of the services SPID compliance; new infrastructure defined "disaster recovery and business continuity"; single infrastructure of data analysis; infrastructure for the dematerialization of the process personal management; widespread use on all staff of the National Charter of Services and digital signature. The system for monitoring the administrative efficiency of clinical trial centres within the observatory was also launched, with geolocation and access to the entire documentation of the centres themselves. In summary, the agreement concluded in the particular case by Aifa with the Council is a positive example, in line with the most recent legislation on centralization of purchases aimed at implementing spending review policies and at the same time, to achieve objectives of greater effectiveness and efficiency of administrative action. As for the complaint for erorial damage, referred to in one of the questions, the Aifa reports that the same was the result of an anonymous missive that has never been followed for total lack of elements: in fact, Dr Polifrone never turns out to have been the manager of the Agency for Digital Italy, nor ever had any assignments of any kind. Therefore, there is no intrinsic contradiction between the notice for the conferral of the contested assignment and the legislation on the enlargement of the Agency's organic plant, which are instead placed in a relationship of logical continuity and respond to the need of the Aifa to continue effectively in the performance of its activities, pending the finalization of the competition procedures provided for by the law. This is evident from the reading of the notice for the assignment published on the Agency's portal, which contains explicit reference to the provisions now cited. The procedure for the assignment of the non-general management function of the Directorate-General's technical secretariat office was carried out in full legitimacy and in full respect of the principle of sound administrative action. In particular, procedural arrangements have been adopted to ensure the transparent and impartial exercise of administrative activity. Given the need to cover this post of managerial function, characterized by strategic importance, also by virtue of the reorganisation phase of the Agency, pursuant to Article 9- duodecies of Decree-Law No 78 of 19 June 2015, the notice was published. Since no executive of the Agency has submitted its willingness to carry out the task, the Director-General has assessed the availability presented by the four candidates outside the administration and their professional curricula. As provided for in the notice and in the current legislation, the assessment has taken into account, in relation to the nature and characteristics of the objectives to be achieved and the complexity of the structure concerned, the elements provided for in Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 165 of 2001, and as a priority of the additional requirements, such as: "consolidated experience, at least 5 years in offices of direct collaboration". (ii) having attended a course of training in the field of constitutional law and Community law; "knowledge of the computer systems suitable for the performance of the functions" "Knowledge of the English language" These requirements are closely related to the functions of the office that is called upon and can be found in Article 3, paragraph 1, point (a) of the previous regulation of the Agency. With regard to the procedure for conferring managerial positions, it is evident that the jurisprudence has affirmed that the choice referred to in article 19, paragraph 1, of legislative decree n. 165 of 2001, is oriented to seek not the best in absolute, but the subject in possession of the necessary aptitudes to manage, organize and direct the work that affixes to the task to be carried out (in this regard can be compared the judgment of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation to civil united sections since 19 July 2011 and the decision of the fifth section of the Council of State n. 8850 of 29 December 2009). As for the first judgment of incapacity for employment for an alleged visual deficiency, which is also mentioned in the question, formulated by the competent doctor during the preliminary examination of Dr. Polifrone, the Aifa states, documenting the clarification, that this judgment was promptly challenged by the person concerned before the competent health company which recognized the applicant's full suitability, without imposing any medical prescription on the applicant. As regards the publication of the documents relating to the conferment in question, another point requested in the question, the Aifa reports that it has complied with all the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 33 of 14 March 2013 at the time of the conferment of those tasks. In particular, within three months of the conferment, the Agency has published on its institutional site: the details of the conferment act, the declaration on the non-susistence of causes of inconferibility or incompatibility pursuant to Article 20 of Legislative Decree No. 39 of 2013, the curriculum vitae of Dr. Polifrone and the related remuneration data. The publication took place in the section of the site accessible with the following route: Transparent Administration/Personal/Directors/Directors of II Belts. Following this path you can still see the sequence of acts and procedures that I wanted to describe.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u33	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr Secretary, I hope you realize that your answer has been so long and complex that it is difficult to understand whether you were answering even one of the questions put by the honourable Member, because you have included in the answer such a large amount of information that I really find it difficult to put it back on the merits of what I asked you. What I can tell you, so I still haven't gotten an answer, is that the two aspirants were certainly more titled than Dr. Polifrone, so much so that one of them appealed. Everything you told me seemed to me to mean: we want Polifrone, we invent any artifice in order to have Polifrone, despite there has been a whole series of violations (which however you did not clarify me). In fact, I repeat to you that on the site of the Aifa have not been published neither the determination of the conferral of office, but only the references, nor the compensation established in favor of the Polifrone and that this is a violation of article 15 of the legislative decree n. 33 of 2016. So you answered me. So now I should take the answer you gave me, recheck it step by step and tell you that objectively to many of the questions I put in the question, including the conflict of interest that occurs with the Council (as the Polifrone was concerned with overseeing the procurement of Aifa), has not been answered. His answer leaves me surprised, because being inside these classrooms I discovered that when you use so many words, these are only functional to provide justification for behaviors that you know perfectly well that you are wrong. Not only that. In addition to the concerns for which we had tabled the first question, they were added immediately after others that forced us to submit a further question: in fact, even before the first questions were answered, Dr Polifrone was recognized as an interim post which was a kind of promotion to the direction of the Bureau. From Dr. Polifrone's resume it is clear that he has no competence in matters relating to the Italian drug agency. However, as you pointed out to me that the figure for my question was EUR 135,000, I repeat that figure, because I was talking about the total compensation for the three years. You spoke of a compensation of 45,000 euros a year, so 45,000 euros for three is 135,000 euros, if math is not an opinion. In any case, Mr Undersecretary, I will read your reply carefully and I hope that I will not have to come back here again and ask you for further explanations of what you seem to have answered my question, but that in my opinion they confirm the difficulty on the part of the citizen and on the part of the honourable Member to see even one of the points that had been put to the attention of the Government. I am therefore only partially satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u36	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, Mr. Undersecretary, you have been so detailed in your reply that only the Head of Office of the Ministry, Dr. Chiné, could have written it. Mr. Undersecretary, the interweaving of relations and favours between Aifa and Consip between Dr. Pani and the Polifrone family is not at all highlighted. The Polifrone, hired at the Council since 16 April 2013, becomes responsible for the procedure relating to the European invitation to tender open procedure for the assignment of development, maintenance, management, specialized support, assistance to users and hosting of the information system of Aifa, contract of more than 11 million euros, published in the Official Journal of 27 March 2015 (contract signed on 20 November 2015). The expensive agreement (€370,000) between Aifa and Consip had been concluded for just fifteen days. On the same date (27 March 2015), Pani, with determination n. 334, had the employment of Caterina Latronico, wife of Polifrone. A few months later, on July 17, 2015, the call for tenders was published in the Official Journal in an open procedure for the custody of the Aifa cash service, which always saw the Polifrone as responsible for the procedure, with a contract signed on April 1, 2016. The following month, with Dr. Pani's decision of 664 of May 6, 2016, Polifrone was also hired in Aifa, despite the fact that until the previous month he had treated as sole head of the procedure (RUP) races on behalf of Aifa. This, Mr. Undersecretary, occurred in clear violation of Article 4 of Legislative Decree No. 39 of 2013, which provides for the inconferability of the assignment to persons who, in the previous two years, have held positions and held positions in bodies governed by private law or financed by the administration or public body that confers the assignment or have carried out in their professional activities, if these are regulated, financed or in any case paid by the administration or body that confers the post. The president of the national anti-corruption authority Cantone recently denounced, behind the phenomenon of the brain drain from Italy, a sort of parenthood in the universities. I strongly ask the Government to act against the parent city of Aifa, which sees the assumption, in addition to the Polifrone family, also of the companion (mother of his daughter) of Dr. Pani, Valentina Mantua, denouncing these episodes to the DAC and the prosecutor of the Republic. Mr. Undersecretary, is the management of Aifa positive and effective when it deals with Gilead, with private negotiation, the treatment against hepatitis C to 40,000 euros per cycle of therapy, while in Egypt the same cycle is paid 800 euros? But does it seem right for an agency to advertise Communion and Liberation? "Sanità24" speaks of 50,000 euros, instead it is 70,000, because they have made another subsequent resolution by further filling up the budget to be given to Communion and Liberation. But does it seem normal to you that the president of the AIFA Melazzini, Lombardy Regional Councillor, in six months obtain reimbursements for expenses of almost 100,000 euros? Do you think it's normal for Dr. Pani, the director, to have more compensation for 700,000 euros and haven't paid them yet? Does this seem normal to you? You, Mr. Undersecretary, must tell your collaborators that these things must be reported to Prosecutor Pignatone and President Cantone, because that is the reality. I brought you data that is on your site; just go and see them: I repeat, the data I have shown you are on the site, they are public. Just make two and two. The drug is used to cure citizens and you can not do a family management: here we are at the level of family management. A secreted negotiation with a cost of 40,000 euros for a treatment cycle per patient when we have two million patients with hepatitis C waiting to be treated, but who instead have to go to Egypt or India: this is the raw reality.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u37	Following is the question 3-02871 on the statements made by the CEO of ENEL to LUISS in Rome. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u38	Mr President, I respond to the act presented by Senator Barozzino and other senators, saying that the content of the statements made by the managing director of the ENEL group, in the context of a meeting held at a university structure, does not fall within the specific competences of the MISE, having these statements to the object personal reflections on the criteria of organization of the business work and not involving any aspect of particular competence relating to the energy sector. However, in order to satisfy the requests of the interrogators, the MISE has acquired at ENEL elements on the basis of which it answers the formulated questions that concern an extract of the declarations issued by the managing director of the group on April 14, 2016, during a meeting with the students of the University LUISS of Rome. It is appropriate to inform that, following the controversy resulting from the publication of the declarations in question, the managing director himself, regretting the misunderstandings that arose, intended to clarify the meaning of his words, officially presenting his apologies to the employees of his company, highlighting that the statements, if extrapolated and not framed in the more detailed context of his intervention, even if reported in general terms and not dropped on his role in ENEL, have proved to be the subject of an unpleasant misunderstanding. The managing director had indeed already exposed, on the occasion of the same meeting at the LUISS, his own vision of the professional relationship and his own managerial style, always marked to the valorization of the people and the promotion of the company's well-being, defining the collaborators as fundamental to the success of the company and emphasizing that it is impossible to make career betraying, mistreating, fearing and hiding their collaborators; instead, they must be helped, cared for and cultivating them every day. As evidence of the above, the company has communicated the main factors relevant in the management of human resources in the period coinciding with the task of the current managing director, highlighting, in particular, the high level of participation in the collective relationships in a company with public participation, the management of the turnover without recourse to social shock absorbers and the modalities of insertion in the company through a path of growth and development within the corporate organization, avoiding the precariousness, openness and transparency of the processes of evaluation of behavior. Finally, the ENEL group has announced that it has entered the Top 100 of the new index of Thomson Reuters, which ranks over 5,000 companies in terms of performance in terms of diversity and inclusion, through environmental, social and governance data, positioning itself in the twenty-fifth place of the index, as evidence of how the group has put non discrimination, equal opportunities and inclusion at the basis of its industrial strategy, essential elements for achieving the most ambitious goals for a large enterprise.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u41	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for being here because, given the difficulty in obtaining an answer from this Government, it is already good that we have answers. However, the answers given are not exhaustive. In a democratic and civilized country, an apology made by a person is always accepted. But where is the doubt? When the person who apologized says that she was misunderstood or exploited, some doubt - and strong - remains. I listened to all of Francesco Starace's speech and took one of the phrases he said. To the question (made by a student) on how a change takes place, Mr Starace replied that in order to change a business organization it is necessary that a handful of changers physically destroy the ganglia that oppose change; to this end it is necessary to create malaise and then hit the people who oppose change. I don't want to go on because these words in Italian say one thing. And I tell you more: as far as I am concerned, that the world of work knows it, these words are of unheard of gravity. If we then make a report of what happened - at what time the sentences were spoken and especially where, that is, in the place where new leaders are formed, the LUISS - the situation appears even more serious. It is also worrying that there have also been smiles and applauses. If the excuses are sincere, these must always be accepted in a democratic country, but if I read that these things have been misunderstood or exploited, these doubts must remain above all to the Government because I remember that work is a right guaranteed by our Constitution. I repeat, if the apology is sincere, it must be accepted, but do not let it be said that it has been misunderstood or exploited because I have listened to the whole of the intervention: it was so clear that this is really worrying.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u42	There follows the question 2-00406, by abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156-a of the Rules of Procedure, on the exclusion of the sector from the national single commissions. I call Senator Candiani to illustrate this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the written text and presented with which we have asked the Government for consistency with regard to the motion already adopted in the Senate which calls for autonomy for the rice sector in relation to the national mechanism of the national single committees (CUNs), otherwise the real risk would be to put into difficulty the entire rice sector and the ways in which it is negotiated.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u44	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to assure the honourable Member that the provisions concerning the establishment and locations of the national single committees (CUNs) for the most representative sectors of the agricultural and food system concern only those concerned. Therefore, in line with the commitments made by the Government, the rice sector may choose to make use of this instrument or not, which has not taken place to date. The creation of a CUN is subject to the request of the majority of the trade associations in the sector concerned which encloses the will and agreement of the main actors in the supply chain. The possible subsequent establishment of the CUN, by ministerial decree, is implemented operationally in the drafting of an operating regulation that takes into account the peculiarities of each specific sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u48	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, what the Government has said satisfies us, but we will of course be careful to ensure that the path defined is respected, because consultation, the definition together with the chain is essential for the protection and guarantee that our national rice production does not have any further damage compared to foreign competition, which is very aggressive. CUNs risk being otherwise an advantage for large retailers, or rather, large producers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u49	The following are questions 3-03028 and 3-03210 on the implementation of the programme agreement for the areas of the former Lucchini industrial complex in Piombino, in the province of Livorno. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u50	Mr President, I am responding jointly to the acts before us, both of which relate to the events of the former Lucchini di Piombino. As is certainly known also to the interrogators, the attention of the Government on the events that have affected and that concern the former Lucchini of Piombino has always been and will be maximum. The Government, together with the Tuscany Region, has in fact put in place a set of interventions to give Piombino an important role in the regional and national economy. The realization of the new port, along with the engagements in order to give perspective to the steel activity and the other industrial initiatives (not only those of the group Cevital with Aferpi) that will settle in the area freed from the blast furnace, is believed to be the clearest testimony of it. Specifically of Aferpi's industrial plan, there is no doubt that the temporal shift is a problem to be monitored with the utmost attention. For this reason, Aferpi's shareholder was asked to speed up the design and construction phase of the new steel works, to be carried out with a financial plan which must include an important direct commitment of the same shareholder. However, Cevital's positive response must be supplemented by the availability of credit institutions to support the investment that, remember, will exceed 600 million euros. The same attention is paid to the other points which are no less important than the industrial plan. Both for the logistic activities (in particular in the within of the harbour availability created to Piombino with the investments of the Tuscany Region) and for the so-called agri-food activities there are entrusts and first concrete acts: start of the phases of planning and acquisition of the propaedeutic authorizations to the exercise of those activities. With regard to the reclamation activities, all the phases concerning the approval of the plans submitted by the company and their national authorisations (Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea) and territorial (Tuscany Region) have been completed. It also appears that the first calls for tenders for the award of executive work have been issued. The attention given by the local authorities, as well as by the local trade union organisations, is maximum because the concrete start of the work represents an important reservoir that can reduce the negative impact on employment caused by the delayed start of the investment programme. Finally, there is no doubt that the employment issue is a very important critical factor. However, the recent agreement signed by the territorial trade union organizations and the management for the inclusion with a solidarity contract of all workers (over 800) who in November will have to leave Lucchini in extraordinary administration is recalled. As regards the availability of social shock absorbers, it is recalled that Aferpi is one of the companies for which the extraordinary income insurance fund (CIGS) can be used until the completion of the four-year plan and therefore until the whole year 2018 in application of Article 42 of Legislative Decree no. 148 of 2015, with provisions relating to extraordinary wage integration treatments following agreements already concluded (in force since 8 October 2016 therefore recently). On this subject, the supervision of the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will be exercised with the utmost rigour, even beyond the legal obligations that Aferpi must comply with. The best guarantee remains, in any case, the amount of investment that will be made within the next twelve to eighteen months and, in this context, the amount of resources that Cevital will have to make available to support the plan in its entirety. Finally, there is no doubt that institutional commitments to improve road infrastructure (completion of the SS. 398 and the missing railway link) represent a decisive aspect for the development of the area of Piombino, beyond the construction of the new iron and steel plants. In this regard, both the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the managers of the Ferrovie dello Stato group have given guarantees that the two works can be completed as quickly as possible, compatible with the effective availability of the resources already allocated.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u53	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, once again I would like to thank the Undersecretary. Of course, I and, above all, the workers who are listening to us at this moment, take the greatest attention you and the Government of which you are a member, to devote to this dispute. We, however, are not satisfied with the answers, because we are in contact with the workers, so we know what is going on. I will therefore give a sort of account of what has happened. In June 2015 there was a program agreement at the Ministry of Economic Development with the Algerian group Aferpi that provided for the restructuring of the activity, with the transition from the coking plant and blast furnace to the fusion with electric furnace; moreover it was expected the environmental reclamation of the industrial area. Aferpi had committed itself to invest 570 million euros plus another 130 million (so 700 million). Then, in June 2016, Aferpi presented another project that, in fact, changed the previous one. The agreement provides for only one furnace, instead of two, which instead of two tonnes of steel will produce only one. It is clear what this means: that employment levels of at least three hundred direct workers and two hundred and fifty others would also be in danger. Finally, he proposed a two-year shift in commitments and that is another very worrying thing. It is true that the workers were called by the IGC with solidarity contracts, but we must be very careful from this point of view too. In fact, solidarity contracts have a good value if work is there and is distributed. In the absence of work, then, how long can this form of solidarity last? The workers will always pay. Mr. Undersecretary, I would like to ask you a little attention because this is an important issue. I interpret the highest attention expressed by the Government as a commitment to workers, because here we are talking about 2,200 workers, between the main factory and the entire induced. We're talking about real families. There must therefore be the utmost attention and, above all, respect. It is therefore necessary to verify whether this company provides the right reliability requirements. Only in this way can workers be guaranteed. So, for the time being, I say to you on behalf of the workers that we do not feel absolutely satisfied. If, however, you say that you have made all these commitments, we hope to see, starting tomorrow, that they meet the needs of these families and of these workers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u54	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-701.ana.u55	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 18 October, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.32 p.m.
