ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 5.30 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 20 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 17,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u10	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I would simply like to draw the Presidency's attention to the fact that, according to Law 196 of 31 December 2009, budgetary documents must be submitted to the Chambers by 15 October. Today is October 25th and we still have no copy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The matter must be put to the House. GAETTI (M5S). Yes, but we would also like to read the texts in order to amend them. [[Applause from Senator Mangili.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u11	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00627, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators, 1-00661, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other Senators, 1-00662 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other Senators, 1-00663, presented by Senator Orellana and other Senators, 1-00664 (text 2), presented by Senator Bertorotta and other Senators, 1-00667, presented by Senator Petraglia and other Senators, 1-00668 (text 2), presented by Senator Finocchiaro and other Senators, and 1-00670, presented by Senator Mauro Giovanni and other Senators, on immigration. I would remind you that the motions were presented during the afternoon sitting and that the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Senator Bubbico, spoke, who gave his opinion on the motions presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u14	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, this morning's newspapers remind us that we have reached 153,453 migrants since the beginning of the year, with a 10% increase on the 2015 figure. Of these - as has been mentioned in the debate on the illustration of motions - a large percentage is represented by minors. This trend will make us overcome the peak of 170,000 reached in 2014; 170,000 are the registered ones, but we know that there is a large part of migrants who escape every registration. In this situation there is also the mockery of our sailors indicted for failure to rescue. This really constitutes the damage beyond the mockery. We are in the middle of an emergency and we will stay for a long time if Renzi and Alfano, who should actively address this problem, stick to the "Winter General" with the hope of curbing the wave of migrants instead of implementing serious policies for the management and governance of this phenomenon. In light of this, it is now clear to us that the macroscopic effect of the very salty agreement between the European Union and Turkey was to close the Balkan route, thus downloading Italy and regaining the country's record with the highest number of landings of irregular migrants. The Ventotene Summits, Bratislava and the last European Council made it clear that the attention of the European institutions on immigration and external borders is focused exclusively on the Balkans and Turkey. Let us be frank: Europe is blackmailed by Turkey, which is now an unreliable ally who looks with distrust, if not with hostility, at the European Union, which intends to blackmail to implement a policy that we might call neo-Ottoman. At these European Councils, however, there is great distraction and carelessness and no mention is made of the disaster that we are living in the Mediterranean. I am referring to the unfortunate people who are trying to get to Europe and to us Italians who, in Europe, have an obligation to defend our borders. Europe looks at the invasion in 27 different ways, complains and moves confusedly. European dreams about quota reallocation, about migration compact and about Africa are dead letters. We haven't heard from any real deal. However, when it comes to redistributing the burden of reception and integration, the European institutions make a big voice and require - only in words - each State to play its part. How do the other Member States respond? They build walls or indicate referendums. Italy - which has responded differently - has been left with structures of very first reception to collapse and, above all, with a system for long-term reception no longer in existence, which should be a problem for the whole of Europe. If we are absolutely incapable of managing the reception and integration of these people, how can we be surprised that there are situations like the hell of the CARA di Mineo? In order to overcome this situation, can we compromise - this is what is happening - the tourist system on the territory to give a first response to these people? The issue is not only and exclusively humanitarian; today it has become a real emergency for national security. At this stage, above all, where those boats come not only desperate, but also very terrorism, which will pose a threat to all of us. To pay, in the face of the opportunism of the short-sighted policies of this Government will be only the Italians and those immigrants that the wrong policies of this Government are transforming from humanitarian tragedy to rich business fueled by your short-sighted choices. Mr. Deputy Minister Bubbico, you had an opportunity this morning to welcome the proposals of the entire center-right, who signed the motion proposed by Senator Paolo Romani, to have more strength. You had to do this only for this: to give more strength to a President-in-Office of the Council who is trying to defend Italian interests in Europe. Or is it just an election ad? Or is that anti-European defense staged by Renzi only valid until December 4th? We hope it will also apply later. The country must be united on this. And that motion was to be accepted, Mr. Deputy Minister Bubbico, precisely because of the spirit that could incarnate and represent: the unity of a country to defend itself from a great attack on security and social cohesion. That is why our vote will be in favour of the motion that I signed and the motion that sees Senator Arrigoni as the first signatory, but against all the others. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u15	I would remind you that the time for explanations of vote has been set at five minutes for each intervention. I say that for all those who have to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u18	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, before I make my statement, since you had planned five minutes to meet the objective of ending these motions in the afternoon sitting, having arrived at the afternoon sitting, which is an ordinary sitting, I ask the Presidency to be able to give us ten minutes, which I think is a reasonable time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're starting to make your explanation of vote, Senator Arrigoni. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I take note of your negative response, Madam President, which follows the negative response to our motion by the representative of the Government; a government that is still turning its back on the mayors, the municipalities. We had asked to issue the identity card if only to those who obtain refugee status and not to grant it to a simple asylum seeker, who the statistics show that, for two thirds, it turns out to be clandestine: rejected request. We asked the reception centre manager to immediately report the irreperibility of the asylum seeker or the cessation of his presence in the reception centre: you replied spades. Leave the duties to the municipalities for the 12-month availability procedure; it involves a long time, money, the employment of people to go to check if at the reception center the person declared unavailable is no longer there. We asked not to consider, in the sum of the resident population - in order to prevent an increase in the costs of associated services - the people who were imposed in temporary reception centres or in the SPRAR network: this request has also been rejected. We have asked to exclude that a person, a migrant hosted in the reception centre, who therefore enjoys free food and accommodation, can also affect municipal welfare services, since it is assisted by the State: this request has also been rejected. In short, the Government wants to go on like this and at the same time does not want to restore the crime of illegal immigration, therefore, wanting to continue on a path totally distant from that of legality and deterency. It is a government that thinks only of the reception. Don't be surprised, therefore, if the landings, since Renzi is there, have reached the figure of almost half a million people; if this year will be exceeded the record of 2014, with 170,000 landings. Don't be surprised if you are not able to manage the reception system, which is exploding. It is yesterday the figure of 167,000 people, 80 percent of whom are placed in temporary structures, hotels, houses or apartments lacking in condominiums. We are talking about condominiums where maybe the Italians, lighting a loan lasting twenty or thirty years, have recently bought an apartment that is now being devalued. Do not complain if then there are people who rebel in front of a requisition imposed by the prefect, as happened yesterday in Gorino, in the Province of Ferrara. Colleagues, I ask you the following question. Is it possible to keep tens of thousands of people in the reception system despite, after a long time, the statistics will show us that two out of three are illegal? In fact, we have very few Eritreans, Syrians and Iraqis. Do you wonder if the percentage of refugees has fallen from 13 percent in 2013 (this is already a low percentage) to only 5 percent last year? Colleagues, Mr Deputy Minister, relocation to the countries of the European Union has failed not so much and not only because the other countries of the European Union are selfish, but because the Government has signed a contract that provides for the relocation of persons with nationalities who actually need international protection (i.e., I repeat, Eritreans, Iraqis and Syrians), who do not require political asylum in our country, but go to other countries probably - indeed, certainly - more serious. I repeat that the procedures for recognising the right of asylum are still too slow, cumbersome and contradictory. The territorial committees are too few and too slow is the ordinary justice that often, as state officials denounce, reverse the opinion given by the territorial committees. After the rejection by the territorial commission, there is a judge who recognizes refugee status for simple reasons of an economic nature. Ladies and gentlemen, the information systems of the Ministry of the Interior and the territorial commissions do not speak with the information systems of the judges who deal with the appeal. I mean, Turkey makes fun of us, but that's not all it is. I would like to reiterate in this House what I said this morning: this year more than 11,000 Pakistanis have entered our country not by sea, but by land, i.e. through Slovenia or Austria. This government's policy is bankrupt from the point of view of return, relocation and land border controls. You're for hiding. You are pursuing an unholy policy that opens the door above all to illegals and dumps everything on Italian citizens. This year the cost of the reception of most illegals exceeds EUR 4 billion and, failing the motion tabled by the Group of the North League, you continue, even more than in the past, to dump the problem on the mayors and municipalities, which are rightly rebelling. For this reason, we strongly reiterate our vote in favour of our motion. We also declare the vote in favour of the motion of which Senator Paolo Romani is the first signatory and vote against all other motions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u21	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, most of the motions put forward clearly show that migration has become a problem that cannot be solved by simply waiting policies or, at most, by emergency management, without a clear plan for the future. Although the awareness of the Government without concrete legislative acts does not lead to results, I intend to vote in favour of the opposition's motions. It is clear that this government shows that it does not want or is not able to manage the migrant emergency, it also causes the fact that we have to submit to the European Diktats. We see only extemporaneous solutions that fall on local authorities without any planning or entrusting to the private of the management of the reception, thus fueling a distorted and sometimes illegal economy, based on migrants as a resource to be exploited for public funding. It is clear that welcoming people to whom then no future can be guaranteed, except by merely maintaining in over-used structures, is not doing them a favor or doing them good. This is why rules such as the one presented by Alternative for Italy must come to the rescue, which regulate flows through two precise instances: regulating the entry of economic migrants and preserving the dignity of migrants themselves by moving the filter line out of Italy. Agreements are needed to create centres that allow preventive training, information on the availability of jobs so that even those fleeing a war can find shelter and shelter in structures in neighbouring countries. Our vote on the motions tabled by the opposition will be in favour. I should like to add that our motion was, in some respects, identical to that tabled by the majority, but our motion was rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u24	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Madam President, speaking of immigration, we believe that Italy is doing its duty while Europe is collecting yet another failure because it is an impotent Europe, enslaved by new national selfishness and incapable of enforcing its own innumerable directives; other than solidarity! I believe, however, that in dealing with the dramatic issue contained in the motions before us, in addition to everything that has been said this morning, we cannot ignore another equally dramatic fact: what the demographers are exposing to us. It is expected that in order to maintain substantially unchanged the Italian population from fifteen to sixty-four years in the next decade, taking into account that the Italians, based on the dynamics of fertility and life expectancy, will decrease from 2015 to 2025 of 1.8 million units, will be necessary an increase of the immigrants pairs to approximately 1.6 million units. This is the needs of immigrants in our country. Wanted or not, this is the reality. A number needed to compensate for the reduction in the Italian working age population caused by the decrease in births and to safeguard the current workforce needed to guarantee production capacity and to make the same social security system sustainable. So immigrants are currently a problem, but they will probably be a resource. Of course we must strike a fair balance because we cannot maintain uncontrolled immigration. By now it has been exceeded the quota of arrivals of 2015 and it is also expected to exceed the figure of 2014, record year for number of foreigners landed in our country. A situation in which Italy complains that it was left alone by Brussels. In this respect, I believe that in the face of the European Union's immobilism, the Italian Government has made the right choice by deciding to include in the maneuver the expenditure for the management of refugees, thus opening, once and for all, a final dispute with Brussels. Another dramatic problem is the now 167,000 refugees received in the Italian reception centres to which 20,000 minors are added. The problem of children who have come without parents or relatives is a dramatic one. Most of them are in fact held hostage by traffickers to force their parents, often already landed by us, to pay. A veritable form of blackmail. These children must be included in educational projects to avoid organized crime, instead more than half of them are dispersed on Italian territory. In our motion we stressed the need for a very careful monitoring of the extraordinary reception centres, which receive 70% of migrants, just as it is essential to shorten the time of the examination of asylum applications. The last need - but certainly not least - that I wish to highlight is to review the Dublin III Regulation, which imposes only on Italy and Greece all the costs of receiving migrants. If the Dublin Regulation is not changed, Europe will never change over. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u25	We greet the students and students of the Alfano I Institute in Salerno. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u28	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, there is no doubt that we have missed an opportunity to discuss a fundamental and neurological issue for our country: the haste with which, in some cases, we have dealt with this issue, says a lot about the impossibility of having a confrontation and creating a summary of the indications that this branch of Parliament could and should have given. We are all within a logic, which I denounce - I do not share it but we are in it, for the decisions we assume - characterized by a subalternal cultural dimension. We all risk making a contribution to the affirmation and consolidation of some commonplaces, as I tried to explain in the few minutes I had available for my speech in the afternoon sitting today. It is said, for example, that we are faced with an invasion, but there is nothing more wrong and, if we want to win this battle against falsehoods and the absence of culture, in order to grow a logic of acceptance, understanding and integration, we must fight these common places. There is no invasion, indeed there is even the need, for the European continent, to enhance the many thousands of women, men and young people, who are driven, in some cases by desperation and fierce dictatorships and in other cases by inhuman economic conditions and persecutions, to carry out here, in Europe and in Italy, jobs that would not be absolutely covered by Italians and Italians: I think about the care work towards the person, in construction and agriculture. Let us, therefore, seize an opportunity like today's, in addition to moving us when we see rightly and nobly promoted by the Senate, even by the Presidency or the Commissions responsible for dealing with these issues, videos in which tens of thousands of non-EU workers, in our Italian campaigns, live conditions of complete and total slavery, without any protection and without any right. They live, work and die, without any right, under those conditions, from us. As I said also in the afternoon sitting, it is necessary to do as Emma Bonino, who has drawn up a sort of decalogue of falsehoods and of the obvious. We are talking about the hundreds of euros allocated to immigrants, but in reality they are given only 2.5 euros, while the remaining part is rightly employed by the State or by the associations delegated by the State to the reception. I believe that this is the objective that we must set ourselves, with appropriate laws, in order to be able to cope with what we are portraying today as a drama, but which can become a historic opportunity in the process of world emancipation of humanity. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u31	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the motions presented today have allowed us to open this debate which clearly highlights absolutely contradictory concepts, as is clear when it comes to these humanitarian dramas. Europe is experiencing this terrible experience and, more than any other country, suffers the negative consequences of this tragedy (along with some states). Indeed, because of its geographical position and its relations with the Mediterranean and Africa, Italy suffers particularly, more than any other European State. Europe is at the centre of a balance between the Union's own aspirations to confirm itself as an area of peace, solidarity and development and the need to ensure security for its inhabitants. It is therefore, what we are discussing here, a serious, almost emerging phenomenon. In many motions there has been talk of emergency, but I would be cautious in using the terms because experts tell us that these migratory flows will persist for at least the next twenty or thirty years, so there is a need to address this problem with structural and absolutely stable initiatives, rather than with emerging measures. I believe that the approach taken by Italy to this phenomenon is absolutely commendable, as was the approach taken by the European States, but they have contributed little to helping our action and often isolated us. It is clear that creating walls, barriers as in fact happened, and derogations from the Dublin Convention or Schengen agreements does nothing but hinder the free movement of migrants in Europe and make Italy's task even heavier and more costly, which is applying in a positive way the important measures that led us, compared to three or four years ago, to a better situation from the point of view of reception. I say this because the hotspots work, the fingerprint collection and the identification of migrants with the Eurodac system work. There is a convention with the ANCI for a fairer distribution of migrants within our surface area, to prevent the creation of peripheral areas of ghettoization in large cities. Therefore, incentives and forms of gratitude to those municipalities (unfortunately still few, only 2,600 out of 8,000) that strive to welcome migrants, certainly work and will have to work. There has been a lot of talk in this Chamber about migration compacts. I would like to say a few words about that, Madam President. It is true that it is absolutely right to address the problem at its root, i.e. in the countries from which migrants leave. But let us be careful, because trials, which Commissioner Mogherini has also mentioned, work where the States cooperate. In some motions, there is talk of creating emigration offices in African states. The idea is good, but how do you create an office where people run away because they are terrified because they lack their freedom? The motions in question contain some absolutely acceptable suggestions. The People's Area Group will vote clearly in favour of those on which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u34	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, last 3 October the first national day was celebrated in memory of the victims of immigration. On 3 October 2013 in the Sicilian canal the most serious shipwreck of migrants was consumed, cost the lives of 386 people. But what has changed since that day? Little or nothing, from what we can see and from what we have read today. But more importantly, what are those people fleeing from? They flee from al-Bashir's Sudan: two million dead and refugees; from Kabila's Congo: six million dead; from Mugabe's Zimbabwe, South Africa, Equatorial Guinea. They flee, they flee from places that, however, we Europeans exploit. What is Europe doing? Nothing. Europe continues with the promises of Dublin III. The desire to overcome the old agreements is there but, in reality, nothing continues to be done. Our motion received a positive opinion, but some of its points were not accepted by the Government, especially the point on the SPRAR. The implementation and dissemination of the SPRAR system should be the best way to enable both municipalities and people to understand who migrants are and where they come from and, in particular, the reception of foreign minors. They keep disappearing and dying children. And they are not children of others, but children of this world. We have a real responsibility for how to manage the reception system. There is no point in chatting here, if the European system continues to pretend that these living beings have no sense of existence. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u37	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has tabled its own motion for a resolution, the outcome of which, although of course not shared by us, is a moment of clarity. We tabled the motion after the Presidents of three Regions - Toti della Liguria, Maroni della Lombardia and Zaia del Veneto - drew up a document which, with about ten points, called for a more incisive and strict policy towards immigration. The Government, through the views expressed by Deputy Minister Bubbico, was, with regard to our motion, which takes up the content of that document of the three Presidents, less generous than the Conference of the Regions. In fact, I inform Deputy Minister Bubbico that, on 29 September, the President of the Conference of the Regions, who is currently Stefano Bonaccini, also belonging to the Democratic Party, addressed a letter to the Government, receiving and sharing, on behalf of the Conference - as is well known, in it the Presidents of the Democratic Party are largely - five or six of the points of that document. There was therefore more sharing among the Regions that suffer, together with the municipalities, the migration policy so negative than by the Government. And from the government's point of view, much more could be expected. Since the time available is short, I will allow myself to send my fellow senators a very clear article, written by Stefano Lorenzetto, that a few days ago appeared in a new newspaper, called "La Verità" (The Truth) directed by Belpietro. Lorenzetto is a journalist known for his very calm and balanced interviews (he is certainly not an extremist). I remember some of Lorenzetto's questions to all politics and the government: how many immigrants do you still want to let in? How much money do you want to spend, since since 2011 we have spent about 12 billion? How many cooperatives are members of the League of Cooperatives benefiting from various commissions? Let us remember the scandal of Mafia Capitale and the decisive role of some Red Co-operatives. Why does the Ministry of the Interior - I ask Deputy Minister Bubbico - fail to fulfil its duty to report, by 30 June of each year, the data on immigration and arrivals? The 2016 report - we are already October - has not yet arrived and the deadline was 30 June. The one from 2015 arrived late. Who are the citizens who benefit from the money for the rent of hotels and houses where immigrants are welcomed? How many people do you think you're hosting? Beware that there is no one who does not share the discourse of solidarity with those who suffer. There are 800 million people who are undernourished in the South of the Planet and there are more than one billion people in poverty. What do we do? Do we welcome them all in Italy because we are geographically the closest? We, too, are for solidarity, but Italy cannot accept a large number of people. Why in Spain, Deputy Minister Bubbico, enter 5,000 people in a year and in Italy we have disproportionate numbers? Spain is 14 kilometers from Africa, in the Strait of Gibraltar. You could ask a lot of questions, but I'll send you Lorenzetto's article. Today, another newspaper - today's newspaper, and not fifty years ago - headlines the Republic: "Migrants," is already record landing. The Viminal says we're on the verge of collapse. This is the record year of landings: we are at over 166,000 arrivals, and only more than 20,000 minors. We've had 12,000 arrivals in the last three days. The earthquakes that we must help in central Italy are about 4,000 and we must help them. Every day we have an arrival that is equivalent to, exceeds or triples the number of Italian victims of the recent earthquake, to which we must also give an answer. And I approach it only to show the seriousness of the numbers, given how serious and worrying we are about solidarity with the people affected by the earthquake. Then sometimes you in the government say that the numbers of the arrivals didn't grow. Then Renzi tells Europe to recognise us three or four billion euros off the budget, because we spent more. So is it true that they have not arrived more, or is it true that they have arrived more and that we are asking for a discount on Europe for the costs we incur? Both can't coexist. Is it true or not, Deputy Minister Bubbico, how much the Minister of Justice Orlando, on behalf of his party, said, namely that there is also ISIS behind the management of a part of these traffics? Is that true or not? And if there's ISIS -- sure, they're not all terrorists, few are -- is it true that the terrorists are coming with those boats? Who's paying? How do those people pay the huge amounts that are given to the hullers? They have smartphones, but who are they talking to if they're poor and undernourished? And not everyone who arrives appears in bad condition. How much money do they have? Where do they get them? We also have another question to ask: Forza Italia is in favour of the crime of illegal immigration. Your government had the proxy, with our vote against, to cancel that crime. You didn't exercise the proxy, so the crime is there. But since you want to erase it, it looks like it's gone. Have the courage to erase it, so that public opinion can even more condemn your policy of surrender against this phenomenon. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Then, if that kind of crime doesn't work, let's study it differently, but in fact you have the proxy and not the exercise, because you're afraid to cancel the crime. And I tell those who share that cancellation. Ask the government to exercise the delegation against which we voted, because it is our right. We could continue for a long time, but we do not agree - I am finishing, Mr President - with the proposals for amendments that have been tabled, including the deletion of our motion. We shall vote in favour of our motion and in favour of the motion by our colleagues in the North League. On the other hand, we will not vote in favour of the other motions which encourage the reception and transport of illegal immigrants. On the other hand, they should be helped at home, while the EUNAVFOR Med mission should go to Libya to block the hullers, as planned. Why, Deputy Minister Bubbico, can the Folgore go to risk her life in Libya to open a very useful military hospital and you can not go to the ports of Libya with the same military to block the hullists? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Are you taking risks in some cases and in others not? Those soldiers can be a target anyway. We share a very different policy, the one that also the Presidents of Liguria, Lombardy and Veneto proposed at the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces, which for two thirds shared (even Bonaccini) and which instead the Renzi Government does not share. Therefore, we say no to your positions, and we hope that the no of the Italians will also be a no to a sensible policy, which is not solidarity, but which is only exposing Italy to a humanitarian catastrophe that has little humanitarian.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u38	Conclude, Senator Gasparri, because he has truly exceeded the time at his disposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u39	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). The personnel of the Navy, obeying the government's senseless orders - we are not at the rescue of those who are drowning, but we are almost going to take the illegals on the beaches to get them to Italy - then they are also tried for help omission. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and the Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Giovanardi]] We are in solidarity with the Navy for the unjust accusation and also for the wrong orders that Renzi gives her. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u42	Martini (PD). Madam President, the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party Group will vote on the motion that Senator Finocchiaro has as first signatory and will support all the concrete and punctual commitments made by the Government as a development of an incisive and European and international action that must be given to such an important and very important issue. The issue of migration is perhaps the most important politically and culturally, and it is crucial and cross-cutting because it brings together foreign and internal policy, making it one; it brings together economic, social and cultural policy and makes it policy in its entirety. I think this breath must not be lost. We cannot bend these discussions to the fact that a referendum on constitutional reform will be held in about 40 days' time or there will be a few more short-term meetings. In the first-signed motion of Senator Finocchiaro we find a serious and far-sighted vision: first of all there is a global breath and the awareness that issues have causes and solutions that are not limited to our home garden. We are talking about Africa, the investments needed to give that continent a future; we are talking about the Mediterranean, the necessary cooperation and the management of migrants' flows. Our country can and must have this deep gaze, which is something more than solidarity: it is part of the responsibility of a nation that wants to play an active, dynamic and respected role. There is a European approach that we have struggled to achieve, including by making ourselves feel strongly in the Brussels scenarios, and which must now be implemented in a successful manner. The revision of the Dublin Regulation, the migration compact, the new directives for entrances and stays for work reasons, the European integration plan that talks about schooling and solidarity: I think they are important things that must be defended by everyone, and not only by the majority. Finally, there is a national and local commitment: not only to save human lives, which is the basis of every civilization - and I think we should not divide ourselves on this - but also to fight against irregular migration and trafficking in human beings, to strengthen and qualify the instruments of reception, because this is also important. In conclusion, we encourage the Government to continue and to make the links between the various interventions more visible and to transmit a message of strength and wisdom, without underestimating fears, but without abdicating in front of them, without fomenting them for short-term returns. If you will allow me, Madam President, I would like to make a final comment on Goro's case. I read on some newspaper site a phrase of the type "A Goro" wins the protest. In all humility and with great respect, I believe that we must say that no one has won, indeed I believe that we have all lost. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] If the arrival of 12 immigrant mothers with their children is called invasion and becomes an element for which you have to win against someone else and make blocks to prevent it, I say we have all lost. He lost politics, they lost the forces of order, he lost the image of the country and they lost even those who believe they have won, because it is not pushing away the burden of finding solutions that grows. On the contrary, new divisions and fractures have been created in the community and the vicious circle continues inexorable. The more fear mounts, the more fragile one is, and vice versa. Today's commitment is therefore also a contribution to all peoples, so that they may face with strength and wisdom the trials that await us all. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u43	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 627 on which the Government's opinion is against, since the proposals for rewording have not been accepted. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent motions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 627 tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 661, on which the Government's opinion is opposed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 661, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 662 (text 2), on which the Government's opinion is in favour, as it accepts the proposals for rewording. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 662 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 663, on which the Government's opinion is favourable, subject to rewording of the fourth commitment and expunction of the letters b) and d) of the fifth commitment, as well as of the seventh and eighth commitment. Do the presenters accept the Government's invitation? Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 663 (text 2), tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 664 (text 2), on which the Government's opinion is in favour, subject to the release of the third, sixth and tenth commitments. The presenters accept the rewording. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 664 (text 3), tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 667 on which the Government's opinion is favourable, subject to rewording of the commitments referred to in points A, Nos 1 and 3 (B), Nos 9, 10) and 12), as well as the commitments referred to in points A, Nos 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13, and referred to in points B, Nos 1, 6, 13 and 14). I ask the presenters if they agree with the rewording proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u44	Madam President, the points are not only reworded, because in practice the Government is proposing that we delete more than two thirds of the motion. The only thing we can do is, if necessary, ask for a split vote, since we are talking about a practically cut motion. It is not a question of rewording it: it has been deleted from us. We can't accept that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u45	I therefore ask the proposers to make the proposal for a separate vote, on which the House will have to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u46	Madam President, we would like to vote first on the points on which there is a favourable opinion and then on the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u47	As no comments are made, the proposal for a split vote is considered to be accepted. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 667, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators, for the part consisting of the premises and commitments referred to in point A), numbers 2, 6, and 14) (B), numbers 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 11 and 15), on which the representative of the Government gave a favourable opinion. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of motion No 667, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 668 (text 2), on which the Government's opinion is in favour. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 668 (text 2), tabled by Senator Finocchiaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 670, on which the Government's opinion is opposed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 670, tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u48	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00652 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other Senators, 1-00655, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 1-00657, tabled by Senator Crosio and other Senators, and 1-00658, presented by Senator Cioffi and other Senators, on local public transport in Rome. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 18 October the motions were presented, the debate was over, the statement by the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Nencini, who also gave opinions on the motions and the agenda presented, and the explanations of vote took place. I would also remind you that at the time of the vote on motion 652 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators, there was no quorum. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on motion No 652 (text 2), on which the Government's opinion is in favour. SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent motions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 652 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u51	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I should like to point out that I mistakenly voted against, and that my vote is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u52	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 655, on which the Government's opinion is opposed, since the proposed rewordings have not been accepted. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 655, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 657, on which the Government's opinion is in favour. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Crosio and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion 657. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 658, on which the Government's opinion is opposed, since the proposed rewordings have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u55	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask whether it is possible to vote separately, by voting point by point, particularly in relation to point 4, where we are asking for something provided for by a legislative mechanism of the State.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u58	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, I rise to speak against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u59	I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Cioffi. It's not approved. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 658, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda (text 2), on which the Government's opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u62	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, I would also like to ask for the separate vote on the agenda, because we would like to vote in favour of one item on the agenda. I would therefore ask the signatories whether they agree to vote separately. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What part? CIOFFI (M5S). It would be desirable to be able to vote on the agenda point by point. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What part? CIOFFI (M5S). We ask that the points of the device be voted on individually. That is five points, and I would ask you to vote individually.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u65	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, if it were clearer about the commitment that our colleagues in the 5 Star Movement intend to vote, we could accept the single vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u68	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, the request is to vote on all points one by one.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u71	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u72	I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Cioffi. It's not approved. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), presented by Senators Philippi and Aracri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u73	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00555 by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators and 1-00648 by Senator Orellana and other senators on the administration of drugs.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u76	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business or, better, on the mess of business because it becomes difficult to understand the subject that follows, once the previous one has been approved, because our work programme is constantly upset. In this particular case, this morning President Calderoli's proposal, adopted by the Presidency, ended with this vote and not with the continuation of the other motions, but with the other items already on the agenda. On this I really ask you for a minimum of linearity, otherwise we cannot organize the work of the Group, as happens also to the other Groups, in a decent way.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u77	It doesn't show, Senator Candiani. Not surprisingly, I am continuing with the agenda set. And I checked it out. I therefore give the floor to Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri to explain motion 555.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most controversial and debated aspects of the commitment that is being made to the delicate, complex process of modernising our health care concerns the issue of continuity of care. It is a sensitive issue, which is addressed not only in the political fora by the political decision-maker - in national and regional legislation - but also by the scientific community and by all those who, in various ways, have competence in this area. I am thinking, for example, of the many representative organisations of patients with certain diseases, which are predominantly chronic. The theme of care continuity, therefore, absorbs in itself the principle of efficiency and effectiveness of the service and of guarantee that the National Health Service is in a position to give the patient, suffering from a certain disease, the safety of consistency in the therapeutic path. And, therefore, there is talk of continuity of care, often recalling to the hospital and the territory, with reference sometimes to the home where the patient resides, that is to say to the social health and welfare structures, in order to ensure that all the subjects that in various ways operate - I am referring in particular to the health workers - have a code so to speak unitary, unitary guidelines to be inspired to give principles of therapeutic consistency. An undisputed aspect, but relevant in the context of the issue of care continuity, is the very delicate problem of giving an efficient, effective and appropriate response to all children suffering from diseases who attend school and who need, during the hours of their stay in schools, assistance, in particular in the correct administration of medicines. The subject, to be honest, is little known, but the professionals have a memory of how and how much the Government and Parliament have tried to find more and more adequate answers not only to a certainly health need, but also to the anxiety, the concern of a parent who wants to live peacefully and quietly during the stay of his child in the school. And I am referring not only to the efficiency levels of care, but - and this is an important aspect - also to the psychological aspects that must not radicalise the principles of medicalization, when this is not necessary. In other words, it is necessary to find not the white coat for the administration of a drug, but the competent and loving assistance of the teacher or professor, who can consciously and responsibly carry out such an activity. In 2012, on a commendable initiative from the Ministry of Education, University and Research, the Ministry of Health and the State-Regions Conference, the National Joint Committee on Chronic Diseases and Drug Administration was established. The latter has worked in a timely way for a survey of the extent of the phenomenon; to define the guidelines, as well as the role and responsibility of the professional figures involved in the process; and to define a campaign of awareness, training and information of all subjects. At the end of an important work that lasted a few years, in September 2015 the guidelines were approved, defining the organizational and procedural model for therapeutic care continuity, with the sharing of the Guarantee Authority for childhood and adolescence and with a consultation that, on the initiative of Federsanità, involved all the teaching staff. The regions have made a positive assessment and, on the contrary, have called for the adoption of the measures of competence. Just to give a numerical reference, I would like to point out that we are talking about over 45,000 children, of whom 20,000 are suffering from type one juvenile diabetes, who naturally need special care. Next to them are also children with asthma and epilepsy. We are talking, therefore, about three particularly delicate pathologies that must be dealt with with with competence, but - I would say - also with a thoughtful attention that, as stated in the guidelines, we believe can be guaranteed by the teaching staff of the schools. These are the reasons why we ask for the approval of the motion under consideration, which essentially commits the Government to call for the approval of the guidelines for the administration of drugs at school, in order to allow the transposition of the work that has been carried out by a series of competent professionals in the matter (I refer not only to those of scientific extraction, but also to those who have particular sensitivity and competence from the educational-training point of view). The motion also focuses on the need to evaluate and promote initiatives that can adapt the care system during the period of stay in school, especially with regard to the diabetic disease that, in the insulin dependent child, requires not only insulin administration, but - let me be allowed - also the reassuring and caring smile of a figure in the school. And I am referring to that school for which, with so much difficulty, we have striven to draw a perspective that allows us to define it as "good school," as well as those figures, skills and availability that, as a whole, can represent an adequate, modern and efficient system that goes in the direction of reassuring the child and his family. Thirdly, according to what is expressly provided for in the appropriate decree of the Ministry, the Joint Committee should carry out an activity of supervision on the implementation of the document of direction by the Regions and a monitoring aimed at the evaluation of the results that are obtained. This is in order to verify that the aspects of relapse of the activities carried out in accordance with the guidelines can represent elements of reassurance or any criticalities can be brought to the examination of the competent Joint Committee for the necessary adjustments and modifications that should be recorded. This is the motion that we entrust to the sensitivity of the Assembly through the same we urge the Government to take the consequent measures. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Cuomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u81	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I would like you to stick to the record that my vote on motion 667 was against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u82	The Presidency takes note of this. I call Senator Orellana to explain motion 648.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very special day for me. I'm not here as a senator but I'm here to tell you the stories of hundreds, thousands of fathers and mothers who, every day, struggle to ensure a serene and as normal as possible life for their children. The renunciations that these people are forced to endure to achieve this goal are indeed endless; many, too many, I would add, even get to leave their jobs. The mothers and dads of the courtyards are self-defined because every day, for hours, they wait near the school of their children, carrying out periodic checks, intervening in an emergency and providing for the management of meals (heavy carbohydrates and evaluating the amount of food taken by children), so as to administer the correct insulin dose. A lot of attention is necessary because in evolutionary age diabetes mellitus is characterized by a strong instability and, consequently, an extremely complex management due to physiological, psychological and nutritional peculiarities that interfere in every aspect of life and the experiences of the minor suffering from diabetic disease and his family. Much has been done in recent years at national and regional level for the management of this insidious disease - and I take this opportunity to thank my colleague Granaiola and my colleague D'Ambrosio Lettieri who for years have been at the forefront on this front - a lot has been done, and I refer in particular to Law No 115 of 1987, to the strategic document of intervention for the inclusion of the child, adolescent and young with diabetes in educational and educational contexts. But too many and too many are still the problems that children and diabetic children and their families face every day. Today I am here for them, because I believe it is a precise task of the Senate and the Government, of all of us, to relieve the tremendous burden that weighs on these people and their children, a burden that for too long they have brought in solitude, perhaps by networking with each other or with the support of a teaching body that I do not hesitate to define as heroic but from which we claim perhaps too much. It is clear, in fact, that, despite the need to train ATA managers, teachers and staff in relation to chronic diseases, we cannot expect them to manage therapies for complex pathologies and requiring the administration of life-saving drugs, as in the case of diabetes. In fact, as mentioned in the aforementioned document of AGD Italia, I quote: "Type 1 diabetes mellitus requires the administration of insulin several times a day and presents itself with a clinical picture of complex management, both because it invests all the basic activities of everyday life and for the possibility of decompensation of the metabolic balance that can put the life of the patient at risk." That is why I believe it is now time to pass a welfare model focused on the "voluntaryness" of teachers to administer to pupils medicines in class, following appropriate training courses. They're teachers, not nurses! They cannot also deal with the administration of such delicate therapies, taking on enormous responsibilities that, after all, do not compete with them, and I am not just referring to diabetic students but also asthmatics, severely allergic persons or those suffering from epilepsy. I am here today because I hope that in the near future there will be no more children suffering from serious pathologies with difficulty in enrolling in kindergartens, nests and schools, or that they will have to give up trips and after school; I hope to see the parents disappear from the courtyards and I hope that these parents will no longer be forced to dramatic choices such as maintaining their employment or providing the necessary assistance to their children. It is in this direction that the motion at my first signature intends to orient itself, having, as a general objective, that of guaranteeing, in concrete terms, the right to study and to the health of children and young people suffering from diabetic disease. In achieving this goal, it is requested not only to provide national schools with the necessary means to better fulfil their role with regard to the diabetic student, with specific reference to the training of staff, but also to ensure periodic blood glucose checks, the management of any hypos and the administration of medicines at school, through competent staff. It also calls for the concrete implementation of Objective 9 of the National Plan on diabetic disease, which states the need to establish organisational arrangements that allow fair access to micro-infuser and other complex technologies (such as sensors for continuous blood glucose measurement). The aim, therefore, is to provide for a rapid update of the list of diabetic garrisons. Finally, the motion focuses on the need to carry out a revision and updating of the reference legislation, in order to make it organic, systemic and responsive to emerging needs. I am therefore convinced that the discussion of the motions that we are examining today is a decisive step in this direction. I want to believe that today we are really starting to take on our shoulders a little bit of the burden that is burdened on these citizens every day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u84	I declare the debate open. Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u85	This is about children. There is talk of children and children who are denied the right to go to school and to educate themselves. Are those just numbers and statistics? No, they're people, little people. Already months ago I asked a question about Chiara's case - let's call it that - an 11-year-old from Naples, sick, who was denied the possibility of going to school. Well, yes, for two years Chiara could not go to school and no one took responsibility for administering the drugs. What is the state of school? Is this a good school? It's actually a good school little by little. What school is it, if no one takes the responsibility to give drugs? What school is it, if no one takes the responsibility to change the kids? In fact, we also have the problem of children getting dirty and that no one takes the responsibility to change. What school is this? Parents alternate, one day their mom and one day their dad, taking an hour's leave from work, to run to school to change their son and give him the drugs. Is this the school we want? What kind of life is this? Who's helping them? Nobody! Today there are many children - not only Chiara - who do not have drugs, many do not have a support teacher and travel freely through the corridors and many are not changed, especially in the South. I am very sorry, because these problems are not only serious but very serious and we are dealing with them with a motion, which will soon turn into an emotion and then nothing. Rather, it is necessary to legislate on this matter and give immediately what they need and have the right to these people, because school, as you know, is the place that makes us grow and that teaches us to reason, to recognize ourselves and also to dream and to design. For these children, who are fragile, this is often the only thing that remains and we, because of our inability, prevent them from doing so too. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u86	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u87	Madam President, given the short time available, I would ask you to hand over the written text of my speech, so that it can be published in the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u88	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u89	Senator Aiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u90	Madam President, I will speak briefly, since the time at our disposal is always tyrant. However, I believe that the motions before us, and in particular the motion No 555, which I have had the opportunity to sign, deserve great attention. In fact, they deal with a very important subject, as has just been pointed out: the administration of drugs in schools. For many students, these are appointments that cannot be renounced, even during school hours, both to maintain therapeutic continuity and to manage emergency cases. The school should therefore arrange for the necessary interventions to ensure that families receive the right assistance, but there are not a few problems to be solved; on the contrary, I think that we are only at the beginning of a long journey. I like to mention a few striking examples, such as that of an 11-year-old girl who was diagnosed with epilepsy, who could not attend primary school for two years, because there were no assistants in her institution for the administration of the antiepileptic drugs she needed. This is one of the striking cases; in most situations, fortunately, children and adolescents suffering mainly from chronic diseases are not deprived of their right to education enshrined in the Constitution, but the path that awaits them and especially their families is not without obstacles, indeed it is often full of great obstacles. The administration of the medicines necessary for the treatment and the life-saving medicines in school hours is an almost unsolved problem, which families, especially, are responsible for, become the only ones responsible for the treatment. Some parents have even given up their work to assist their child and not to deprive him of a life as normal as possible and of an educational and educational path that he would be entitled to. The establishment of the National Joint Committee, which laid down guidelines, was mentioned earlier, but today the real problem is still to find who administers the drugs. If for therapeutic continuity a family can relate to the school, the practice changes in the face of the emergency; many times the urgency procedure is required: we have mentioned the case of epilepsy, many times there are urgent requests for allergic diseases, as for bronchial asthma and especially for diabetes. That's why problems overlap. These figures show even more the need to intervene at the regulatory level, to give certainties that cannot be guaranteed today. To date, moreover, the guidelines regulate the problem in a completely general way, not entering into the specific of the drugs to be administered, of the relative pathologies and of the modalities of intervention, but continue to call in question the parents, the basic doctors, the school and above all the school manager. Well, in this regard too many times school staff have worked, but there are precise recommendations for teachers and ATA staff (as well as for other subjects), who talk about availability and not obligation. There are, therefore, recommendations, but the problem exists, it is important and it is almost serious, so much so that even the Child Care Authority and adolescence has shown great appreciation for the Committee's activity, both for the way in which it works, and for the use of important insights carried out also by ISTAT to quantify and better qualify the phenomenon. At the same time, the Authority has also invited us to pay attention to the various points dealt with, some of which have already been mentioned. We could briefly summarize them, if we have the time, with a view to valorising the work done so far; an important work, and still useful for future activities. However, it should always be possible to imagine a path capable of guaranteeing the appropriateness of the drug and the intervention according to the various situations, providing for the administration of drugs, not only by non-healthy personnel, who must be adequately trained, but also by health care personnel for the most complex cases requiring differentiated interventions. It would also be useful, Madam President, to introduce precise time elements into the regulatory framework, for example the minimum number of days which make it compulsory for the school manager to set up and convene a coordination group. In addition, given the importance of monitoring the phenomenon, ISTAT collection could also be made permanent and mandatory for all schools; it would also be important to provide for tools and arrangements for evaluating and monitoring the correct application of national indications at local level. This means that it is an enormous problem to be observed and on which we must all be willing to make our contribution and give the government the opportunity to have a regulatory framework that can finally solve the problem. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u91	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u92	Madam President, we are more than satisfied, having also signed the first-signed motion by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. We have some concerns, which have already been raised by my colleague, that these statements of intent remain and that something really should be done, but we must note that something has actually moved. The Ministry of Health and Education, University and Research have already set up a National Joint Committee, which studies the administration of drugs within the school. The problem is well known: not all children have access to schooling, because certain diseases require, unfortunately, the administration of drugs even during school hours. Therefore, there is this difficulty of insertion for children with certain pathologies. The result is that all these young people can go to school without any difficulty and, at the same time, without putting teachers on the cross, who may not even be prepared for a task that is not curricular or part of teaching. The numbers give rise to concern. More than 3,000 schools have received requests to this effect and almost 6,000 users, or families, seem to have expressed these needs but have not received adequate answers. At this point, it is important what is being asked: a good training of the school staff, but leaving to the voluntaryness of the teacher body the assumption of this new responsibility. If necessary, it is also necessary to think of suitable and suitable professional figures for this purpose. It seems right to give an overview, in the sense that all regions should have the same organisational model and, in essence, allow all these young people, who are now outside school education, to be able to take advantage of it and to reach the objectives that are the common destination of all young people.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u93	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u94	Madam President, the first motion was signed by more than half of my Group and, of course, we support it. I would therefore ask Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri to add the names of the whole Group. It is, in fact, a postulate, an absolute truth. This was a matter that had to be dealt with. Since Mrs Gambaro also signed the first-signed motion of Senator Orellana, I would ask the two proposers to unify the two motions and thus reach a single motion. In fact, the subject is so important that, in my opinion, producing a single motion would be a result to be taken into account and would give even more strength to the motion itself. Of course, volunteering and staff training are two serious problems. But let us not forget that we are talking here about the administration of drugs and about making staff responsible for the administration of drugs. For diabetes, it is sometimes insulin, to be administered by injection, even if oral antidiabetics exist. Let us not forget that we have mentioned three of the most important diseases, epilepsy, diabetes mellitus and asthma, but there are also food intolerances and so-called rare diseases, which give even more problems. The fact that they are considered "rare" means that it is difficult to realize, for example, on a hypophysial dwarfism, certain interventions, which can be done on other diseases of a certain rarity; but they are rare in name, because in reality they are very widespread. They are said to be rare, but they are more common than normal diseases. Let's not forget the fact that children, as well as attending canteens, also practice recreational and sports activities. So we are talking about a whole range of prevention activities: in the last parliamentary term we made semi-automatic defibrillators compulsory in pharmacies, but I believe that they should also be made compulsory in schools of first and second degree, because there are many accidents in schools. I shall conclude with one last remark in a loud voice: far from us to include this consideration in the text of the motion, but we are talking about expensive medicines and family members who make sacrifices to buy them. Some colleagues have also said that some family members are forced to leave their jobs to continue following their children; they do well, it is their future and it is their duty. But let's also remember that these drugs have a cost and we have a bass band at AIFA that doesn't calm costs. Let us take the example of hepatitis C medicine, which, compared to other European countries, costs 5,000 percent more; if it is true that every citizen has to share in drug spending, if a drug costs one euro, 10 percent is 10 cents, but if this drug costs 1,000 euros, 10 percent is 100 euros. We are witnessing - and I shall end, Madam President - the fact that the President of AIFA is taking the role of Director-General of AIFA: everything remains within them to try to continue to manage the drug. Pro domo who? Pro domo pharmaceutical companies. Obviously this goes against the National Health Service and the cost of the drug in the National Health Service. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u95	Madam President, I would ask that I be able to put my signature on both motions and that of the whole of the Mixed-Fare Group, partly because we believe that there is a clear and strong demand on the part of the proposers. Reacceding to the wish just expressed by Senator Barani, whom I would like to make my own, I believe that the contents of both motions go in a clear direction to protect these young people, adolescents, often even children, who find themselves having to endure, in addition to the problems of diseases, also those related to discrimination that are not always sustainable, even from a psychological point of view. We want to be able to subscribe to the motions and we hope that the document will be united, in a strengthening sense, and that these motions will be followed as soon as possible, as soon as possible, by concrete answers and subsequent laws that will help these children and their families to ensure that they can have a normal life. These motions refer to the disease of diabetes. Let us remember that there are unfortunately - as has already been said - many other pathologies. It would therefore also be important to envisage a plan for the inclusion of people prepared alongside these youngsters to provide support in addressing the issues that too often involve them, such as the difficulty of living daily life and normality. This help is due not only - and above all - to the children, but also to their families who have to work hard to make everything seem almost normal for them and their children.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u96	As no comments are made, the request for subscription of motions is accepted. Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a very important subject, because I think it is impossible not to share the comments of the motion we are debating. Think of a parent with a child, who obviously goes to school to be trained for life and who, in the face of an important condition, may need help in administering a vital drug for him. To think that a parent may have a moment of anxiety over what I think is an absolutely obvious fact must make us all reflect. Here is the real importance of this motion: to make us understand that things taken for granted often are not, and that a problem that perhaps each of us may not consider such in life can instead be very important for some families. I believe that today it is really impossible not to adhere to the issue that this motion brings to our attention. We have all the tools to be able to join a civil society in which a child suffering from major diseases, who really needs the intervention of someone who can help him, can do his therapy so that he can stay in school, be included in normal life but also so that he can enjoy a continuity of care that becomes unavoidable. We have very important diseases, such as epilepsy or asthma - it has been remembered by many colleagues - which really cause a parent to sit with his heart in his throat who knows that he has a child in school who needs to be given a drug at a certain time. So the theme we have to ask ourselves is how to make this step towards a complete civilization in our country a normal fact and so that in every school there is the possibility of having the assistance that the child deserves. It is not an easy topic and it is not a trivial theme, because we are often faced with a real incompetence and not only of facade: to administer a drug is an anxiety and a great responsibility for every citizen who does not have a specific competence. Think about the dosage of insulin: it is not possible to do it casually; you need to have competence, expertise and safety in doing so. So the issue that we have to worry about is that the guidelines for the administration of drugs at school, currently at the attention of the Ministry of Education of the university and research, can really give everyone - I want to repeat it not out of fatigue, but out of conviction - the opportunity to make a qualitative leap to our schools. These guidelines have also been shared by the Guarantee Authority for Children and by Federsanità; the Regions have called for action in this regard. I believe that this motion makes us aware of a serious lack in our school system and therefore must certainly be considered with the right attention, but also with one more wish: not only is it necessary to evaluate, promote and support activities useful for the proper management of diabetes; in reality we must promote all those useful initiatives so that our children in school can be treated in the appropriate way. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u98	Senator Bignami asks to sign the motion at the first signature of Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. As no comments are made, the request is accepted. Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u99	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Granaiola for this work, which is much more important than you think, as we have heard from the speeches. This is not usually discussed because it is believed that they should be linked to the regulations. But the problem - I address the Undersecretary - is terrible. I have received, only this week, a shocking document that concerns a child - I do not mention names of course - of Milan, of my city. I do not want to tell you the very painful story of this child who had seizures, to whom they gave a drug that the school refused to use. So this child was sent to the hospital; he was given a drug by mouth, but the doctors said it wasn't okay. But there was no one who would ever take the responsibility of treating him. At the end of the day, a class council resolution came, of which I want to read a small piece, because it is shocking, so at least colleagues have the perception of what it means: The teachers and the manager believe that at this time by the school it is not possible to guarantee the administration of the life-saving drug in the times and in the modalities required by the protocol. It is therefore agreed that, since it is not possible, under current conditions, to sign a Memorandum of Understanding for the administration of a medicinal product - as if we were talking about the law of stability, not of a person and a human being - the first aid will be used in an emergency. That is, when you have a seizure, you notoriously call and expect the E.R. to arrive; meanwhile, they told the child's parents to keep a pillow in the locker. That's it. But what's worse is they say, The class board makes itself available to activate a school project at home, if the family considers it preferable and appropriate. You see, Madam Undersecretary, I am sure that you will tell the Minister that this is not a protest, but an expression of shame, in a school of obligation where the right to health is denied. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bignami, Buemi and Orellana]] I believe that Article 32 of the Constitution is very important, but it is even more important to Article 3, which speaks of the equality of citizens. In this case, this small citizen, of course, is also a citizen, he is denied a right and is subjected to a stress - allow me - that I would never have thought that in a public civil school could be caused. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Buemi and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u100	The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u103	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is an emblematic example of how much Italy very often takes care of little or nothing of its treasures and does not find a way to enhance them. In Coltano, a hamlet of Pisa, there is the historic building where Marconi installed a radiotelegraphic station in 1903. The first signals sent by Marconi station reached Canada and Eritrea. Here was received the SOS of the Titanic and eighty-five years ago from this place started the signal that enlightened the Redeemer Christ of Rio de Janeiro. During the Second World War, unfortunately, both the antennas and the transmitter building were destroyed, leaving intact the so-called Marconi building. Well, this important historical testimony is now left in the most complete degradation. It is not possible that such an extraordinarily important place is abandoned to itself. There was talk of a project for the recovery of the structure, which was the most important in Europe for continental radio broadcasts, but everything turned out to be unfounded and the project got stuck. I think it is of primary importance to recover it and return it to the community. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u106	MORRA (M5S). Colleagues, in Calabria, exactly in Crotone, something strange is happening, if you have at heart the cultural heritage and therefore also archaeological of all of us Italians. Exactly in the vicinity of Punta Scifo, a short distance from Capo Colonna (area subject to archaeological constraint), an issue has exploded that also had the attention from the weekly magazine "L'Espresso," following some telephone interceptions attributable to the operation "Aemilia," which just a couple of years ago made it clear that even in Emilia-Romagna there is the pervasiveness of the 'ndrangheta. Following these interceptions it was understood that the realization of an alleged - I like to define it with this adjective - farm village in Punta Scifo could cause an irreversible damage, unfortunately, to an archaeological heritage of inestimable value. Even, in a sort of ping pong, it was seen to bounce the competence first of the Municipality, which granted the necessary permissions after having denied them, then of the superintendence, which hindered and in the end granted, with, in the meantime, the intervention of the Council of State and the TAR and with the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism absent in all this. Following a question from the 5 Star Movement, we have recorded a substantial ignovia by the Ministry led by Franceschini on a matter that is becoming explosive for the area. In fact, 79 bungalows can not be built on a reinforced concrete basis (although they are then said in wood), in an area that, from an environmental point of view, as well as archaeological and therefore cultural, deserves only respect. Since the agencies have been contradictory among themselves and since telephone interceptions have emerged, following a criminally important process, such as the one following the operation "Aemilia," we ask for the umpteenth time to MIBACT, if there is, to beat a blow; otherwise we must also commission the Ministry of Franceschini. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u107	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-708.ana.u108	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 26 October, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.23 p.m.
