ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 10 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u4	Mr Langella (AL-A). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1878, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 1203. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u9	Madam President, the tragic element from which the draft law under discussion was the tragedy that took place on 3 October 2013 off Lampedusa. The shipwreck of one of the infamous shipwrecks of the sea led to the death of 368 people, including the elderly, women and children. In the aftermath of that tragedy, the Committee of the Regions was set up on 3 October, a non-profit organization that worked so that the sad date, through the establishment of a national day in memory of the victims of immigration, could become not only a moment of remembrance and commemoration of the victims, but above all an opportunity to strengthen, through the principle of solidarity, that European identity which seemed completely lost in the events of recent years, months and weeks. At this moment I would like to thank the Committee of 3 October, which has strongly wanted the memory of this tragic date and all the citizens of Lampedusa, with mayor Nicolini in mind, who have worked so hard to help the victims of the many shipwrecks that have followed in recent years in the Mediterranean. On 3 October, therefore, it is a very important symbolic date, but the deaths related to the transfer of thousands of people in Europe were numerous even before and after that 3 October 2013. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u10	Colleagues, it is not possible to continue with this buzz, also because we are talking about particularly significant issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u11	Please, Senator Mazzoni. Mr Mazzoni, rapporteur. Thank you, Madam President. I was saying that on 3 October it is to be considered a very important symbolic date, but I also want to remember that the deaths linked to the transfer of thousands of people in Europe were numerous even before and after that 3 October 2013, which still remains a key date in the history of Europe and immigration. After that tragedy, which seemed to upset the consciences of half of Europe, the Letta Government decided to start operation Mare nostrum, which would then close on 1 November 2014. This operation had two fundamental objectives: to ensure the search and rescue in the international waters of migrants and to ensure the justice of traffickers and scafisti. It was a costly commitment (nine million euros per month) and an experience ended in the sights of the controversy, because accused of having multiplied the number of desperate sailed from the ports of the southern Mediterranean, attracted by the certainty of being rescued at sea. However, it should not be forgotten that Operation Mare nostrum has saved 150,000 people and after its closure the arrivals on our southern coasts have increased along with requests for asylum. So, Mare nostrum was not the calamite of the desperate. The magnets and causes were to be sought elsewhere. But once again, a turning point for the course of events, after the many polemics, was the chronicle: on April 18, 2015, in the shipwreck of a boat coming from Libya more than 700 people died, perhaps 900. Two days later, a joint summit of EU Foreign and Interior Ministers gave birth to a ten-point plan for strengthening operations in the Mediterranean, systematic effort to capture and destroy boats, deployment of European Asylum Support Office (EASO) teams to speed up asylum applications practices, study of options for mandatory relocation, a refugee resettlement programme and a plan for the repatriation of irregulars. I think it is appropriate to remind all of us that the right to asylum is one of the fundamental human rights recognised by our Constitution. Article 10, third paragraph, provides that "The foreigner, who is prevented in his country from effectively exercising the democratic freedoms guaranteed by the Italian Constitution, has the right to asylum in the territory of the Republic, in accordance with the conditions laid down by law." This bill, already approved at first reading by the House with a large majority, has a great symbolic value, but not only: it must also be a spur for the European Union to find that constituent element of solidarity which was in the minds of the founding Fathers, but which is unfortunately failing in the management of the emergency of migrants, an epochal phenomenon that must be governed by the emerging logic and, above all, not leaving only the countries of first port such as Italy and Greece. According to the International Organization for Migration (IOM), UNHCR and UNICEF, since September 2015, 340 children, on average two per day, have lost their lives at sea in an attempt to cross the eastern Mediterranean with their families. I do not think it is necessary to use the image of little Aylan, without life on the Turkish beach of Bodrum, and of his little brother Galip who, having escaped the direction of the media, had less space in collective pity, to emphasize the need for a change of pace in Europe. According to the IOM, there are 444 dead in the Mediterranean in these early months of 2016. According to an advisor of the UN Women for Peace Association, who spoke on Tuesday, March 8 in Istanbul at a conference on women's rights, since the beginning of the current crisis, the people who have lost their lives in an attempt to reach our continent would be about 4,000, a frightening number to which we cannot respond with indifference and rising walls. Of course, summits such as the Visegrad Group (Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and Hungary) extended to Bulgaria and Macedonia do not help Europe, and it does not help the continuing threat of suspension of the Schengen Treaty. During the celebrations of the first anniversary of the tragedy in Lampedusa, in 2014, the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz, said: We gathered here in Lampedusa because we are aware that something is wrong with our asylum and migration policies. But we want to correct them. I believe that there is no better place than Lampedusa to mark a turning point in these policies. In fact, the European Agenda on Migration was adopted in May, but it remained largely unenforced due to the rise of nationalistic selfishness and the general crisis of the European Union. The difficult summit with Turkey last Monday is proof of this. A few weeks ago, a delegation from the Senate Human Rights Commission went to Lampedusa, where it was able to find the commitment of the operators but also the objective difficulties in the realization of hotspots. I hope that from the debate on this bill, even if I know that it is not simple, the legitimate controversy about how to manage immigration will remain outside, because it has good reasons both those who say that migrants are needed to combat the ageing of the population in Europe and to be able to count on additional labour and new consumers, both those who claim that the reason for the state requires not to superimpose the humanitarian reasons and the reasons for the reception to those of those who are convinced that it is wrong to confuse the mission of the Church with the tasks of the States, to make confusion between the Gospel message and politics, between the universalism of the Church, which speaks to all men, and the inevitable peculiarism of States, which respond to a defined set of citizens. This bill does not intend to respond, nor could it do, to the many complex problems posed by the arrival of thousands of refugees, but more simply and perhaps effectively wants to operate on the cultural level of collective consciousness, in the memory of those who fled from wars and pain, of those who dreamed of a better future for their children and died during one of the many journeys of hope, in the awareness that a civil nation must have among its founding reasons also the protection of human rights. This is the deep sense and reason that inspires the bill No. 1878 - Institution of the National Day in memory of the victims of immigration - which I hope will be approved by the Senate with the widest possible majority. Presented in the Chamber on 13 November 2013, a month after the tragedy of Lampedusa, the first signatory of the honourable Beni and signatories, among others, the Members Chaouki, Realacci, Iacono and Roberta Agostini, was approved - as I have already mentioned - with a very large majority from the Assembly of Palazzo Montecitorio on 15 April and transmitted to the Senate on 17 April 2015, the day before the other great tragedy in the Mediterranean off Lampedusa. Allow me, Madam President, to make a few additional points. The events that in the Mediterranean and along the routes by land to Europe have caused the death of thousands of people, fleeing from wars, persecution and misery, seemed finally to have led the European countries to an attitude of greater openness towards the migratory phenomenon. In fact, Europe as a whole is called to assume its responsibilities and to intervene with more incisive actions, guaranteeing to the countries most involved by migratory flows the support necessary to create humanitarian channels of entry and to combat the trafficking of human beings. In the summer months of last year, there had even been expressions of solidarity with refugees, particularly by the Austrian and German citizens, who seemed to represent a tangible sign of the new civil sensitivity that was forming on these issues, which could indeed represent a return to the identity foundations of the European Union. The hopes and tragedies of those who, driven by despair and misery, flee from their countries in search of a dignified existence also tell us about our history, the Italian immigrants who suffered the weight of indifference and the contempt of racism. Memory of the past is used to learn to look at the future critically and to remedy the mistakes made. I believe that Italy is carrying out its task, has done it and will do it. Not so Europe: walls have been built, nationalist populism has prospered, xenophobia has prospered, as we saw in yesterday's elections in Germany. I believe that Europe must regain its solidarity, first of all by revising the Dublin Regulation, which imposes on the first port countries alone the burden of welcoming refugees. We have seen some real contradictions on the part of the European Commission: first we leave Italy and Greece alone and then we punish them with infringement procedures, because we have not managed to take prints from all the incoming refugees and because hotspots have not been opened quickly. Well, this bill doesn't just want to contribute to giving the necessary remembrance to the victims of immigration and the flight from war and misery, but it also wants to be a response to European indifference, a response that brings us back to a whirlwind of civilizations, because with the return to nationalism we do not build the Europe of the future. [[Applause from the AL-A and PD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u12	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with infinite honour and deep sense of responsibility that we are finally meeting today to adopt a measure which has been waiting for many months to be approved by this House. On October 3, 2013, we all received a slap, given by the images of bodies drifting from 366 victims, men and women, who died a few meters from the shores of Lampedusa, migrants who had almost reached the much desired freedom, for which they had invested much of their savings, put in the hands of unscrupulous traffickers. That tragedy, although announced because it was preceded and unfortunately followed by other events of death and despair, has awakened in many consciences a sense of responsibility and closeness towards the many thousands of people, who for years have been facing the short crossing that separates our coasts from Africa, and has prompted Parliament and the Government to translate that slap into a political response, with the decision to establish a day of memory of the victims of immigration. This day must serve as a warning, as stated in the law that we are called to approve, with the aim of promoting the memory of the shipwrecks in which migrants have lost their lives, in an attempt to reach the Italian coasts. A day on which meetings and initiatives will be organized, particularly in schools of every order and grade, in order to raise awareness of the dignity of migrants, the importance of their integration and the right of asylum. As the President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, has recalled, "The humanity that we will show in welcoming desperate refugees, the intelligence with which we will face migratory phenomena, the firmness with which we will fight human traffickers will be the way in which we will show the world the quality of democratic life." And it is precisely to demonstrate our deep humanity, our deepest solidarity, but also to demonstrate and to remind both ourselves and our European neighbours that we Italians, who in the past have been a people of migrants, have not forgotten our origins and today we want to reach out to those fleeing violence, war and poverty in search of a better future for themselves and for their children, which we must do. Remembering men, women, children, whose name we do not know and whose past we do not know, not only makes us better people, but it serves us to understand that closing the doors and turning to the other side has not served, serves and will not help anything, that only by building a welcoming and multicultural country we will defeat hatred, racism and xenophobia that unfortunately, historically, accompanies the periods characterized by strong migration cycles. I hope that this day will be celebrated in a climate of cohesion and solidarity, that it is not just an institutional self-celebrative walkway, conditioned by the usual rhetoric and demagogy, because we must give the citizens, Italy and Europe concrete answers, real and rapid, that can respond to the demand for reception, for human solidarity, without any instrumentalization. The Mediterranean Sea, which has been the cradle of civilization for centuries, has now become the frontier between the rich and the poor, the lucky and the unfortunate, who has a future from those who do not have it. I don't want to and I can't accept this subdivision. As Don Lorenzo Milani wrote more than fifty years ago, if you have the right to divide the world into Italians and foreigners, then I (...) claim the right to divide the world into disinherits and oppressed on the one hand, privileged and oppressors on the other. One is my homeland, the other my foreigners. Well, I don't want to be on the side of the privileged, nor the side of the oppressors. I want and want, for my children and grandchildren, a future where solidarity, human rights and the values of welcome and integration are the basis of civil coexistence. For this reason I am in favour of the establishment of this day of memory, in order to transmit, above all to the younger generations, the values of integration and brotherhood among peoples. Certainly Italy, from the very beginning, has shown that it cares about the problem and that it wants to commit itself to solving it. This is demonstrated by the launch of the operation Mare nostrum, wanted by the Government Letta in the weeks following the shipwreck, with the aim of patrolling the channel of Sicily, uniting a military objective to an even nobler humanitarian purpose, that is to want to assist the illegals avoiding the repetition of other tragic incidents. That this day is then also an opportunity to listen to the testimonies of the many courageous workers of the Navy, the Coast Guard and the other Forces of the Order, engaged for years in the rescue of human lives, working at night, in the cold and wind, tirelessly, with the only noble purpose of helping as many people as possible, regardless of the color of the skin, the origin and the social condition. I still have the chills to remember the words and tears of many officers interviewed by the press and television in those tragic days, when in tears they remembered the efforts made, the corpses fished, the children without more parents and the parents without more children. To all of them must go the greeting and the deepest thanks, mine and I hope of the whole of this House, for what has been done in recent years. We are faced with a challenge that will last and will weigh on an entire generation. There have never been so many people fleeing political persecutions and wars like today and to these are added the millions of economic migrants who press from black and sub-Saharan Africa. Many of them seek protection here in Europe and only if we succeed in getting into the order of ideas that this situation will not change in the coming years, can we offer a convincing and decisive response. So far, Europe's responses have been partial and - let me say this - too fearful and conditioned by the situation within individual states. However, if Europe fails to live up to the expectations that the whole world has towards it, I wonder what the very purpose of being together is if we are not able to give a strong and unequivocal response to a global problem. For this reason, I hope that the Government will pursue in Europe a common policy for the management not only of asylum seekers, but also of refugees and economic immigrants, based on the principle of solidarity and on our value of humanity that we all share. This is not the place to address the issue of changes and changes that should be introduced into European rules, but I would like to think that in the European Union that we will leave to our children and grandchildren migrants will be welcomed everywhere with equal human dignity, through the introduction of minimum standards valid in all Member States. I hope that migrants can be equally divided among all countries with an intelligent quota system, which takes into account the labour market needs of a Union of 500 million people and which therefore can and must manage a migration phenomenon that, while reaching the million units per year, would still represent a percentage close to zero percent of the total population. Instead, a situation such as today's one, in which the burden of the crisis is poured all over the border countries and those few, generous countries that, on a voluntary basis, decide to offer reception to refugees, is doomed to fail because it does not introduce criteria understandable by all citizens, running the risk of creating tensions and recriminations of various kinds. Clearly, in the medium to long period we have to go beyond the management of the emergency, intervening on the causes of the immigration, perhaps through the introduction of partnership agreements with the countries of the other side of the Mediterranean from which the migrants pass, strengthening also ulteriorly the patrolling of the coasts, as near as possible to the ports of the North African Countries from which the boats leave, but always acting as European Union and not like Italy, Greece or Spain. In order to create a comprehensive reception policy, we must encourage political initiatives that combat the reasons behind emigration from the countries of the Middle East and Africa. The stabilisation of the situation of disbanding states, the limitation of violence and civil wars must go hand in hand with specific efforts to support economic development and the creation of real economic and social prospects, especially for the many young citizens of those nations, if we do not want tens of millions, in the coming years, to press our borders. All the efforts of the communities of States, first and foremost the European Union and the United Nations, must have this purpose. I therefore hope that Europe, which is called upon to assume its responsibilities, will not leave the border countries such as Italy and Greece alone, and will be able to guarantee to the countries most affected by migratory phenomena, mainly for geographical reasons, all the necessary support in order to manage more effectively the numerous landings, first of all amending the rule on the right of asylum contained in the Dublin Regulation of 2008, with the introduction of proportional quotas that exceed the bond of the first country of entry into the Union, today too penalising for the Mediterranean countries. The citizens of Europe have already shown sensitivity to these issues, with expressions of solidarity, concrete signs of a new civil sensitivity that is being formed on these issues and that will have to be one of the foundations of the European Union of the future. Unfortunately, however, these spontaneous openings have been contrasted with manifestations of closure and hatred, rising walls and closing borders. It is then up to governments - and I hope that the Italian Government can make them spokesperson - to create a Europe that is more supportive of migrants, which can give concrete, real and rapid answers to the demand for reception and human solidarity that comes from its borders. I would like to conclude, Madam President, by reaffirming my support for the introduction of this day of memory, recalling a phrase made by a young refugee who said: I'm not dangerous, I'm in danger. Well we cannot and must not turn to the other side when we receive these requests for help, instead we must offer our support and our solidarity, keeping in mind the words of Pope Francis when he denounces the globalization of indifference as the evil of our age and of our society, because this is what we would like to receive, if one day we were in the same situation. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u14	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating recognizes 3 October as a National Day in memory of the victims of immigration, with the aim of raising awareness and training public opinion and young generations to civil solidarity with migrants, respect for human dignity and the value of life. That date - October 3rd - is imprinted in our hearts, those images seemed unbearable and we hoped not to have to see them anymore but so it was not and, perhaps, we have also a little' resigned to all this and only from time to time the image of a little in the arms of a rescuer who arrives - alas - too late forces us to reflect. It is a few days ago the birth of a little one that came to light in the midst of the mud: we all have that image before our eyes. I thought, in recent days, that, at least, Jesus child, when he was born, had the ox and the donkey to warm him up, while that child did not even have this. Integration, reception and inclusiveness: these are the conceptual pillars on which the events that will be organized on the day of memory are based. Not, ladies and gentlemen, merely a reminder of a tragedy that inevitably shaken the souls of all citizens and citizens, who have lived with anxiety and apprehension those dramatic hours in which the news reported an ever increasing number of deaths. I would like to highlight the deepest meaning that represents the establishment of a Day in memory of the victims of immigration: to promote the education of our children in schools and citizens and citizens in the places where they live. This is a cultural investment for the future of our country, which will, I hope, infect other European countries that, unfortunately, as we see now a little too often, rather than raising and building bridges, raise real walls, made of bricks: a closure, symbolized by these bricks that put one on the other. But let's go back to us. Every single member of civil society is a bearer of values and customs that reflect on the community and any positive action aimed at inclusion must be consciously welcomed. This is a concrete way of supporting those intentions of which Italy is making itself spokesperson among the supranational institutions and helps to carry out that step forward, which our Premier referred to at the last European Council, which looks at the substantial reinterpretation of Community policies on reception and solidarity. Giving back to the European institutions that sense of humanity, that heart increasingly replaced by the calculation of financial constraints, is a priority in order not to further feed the reasons of those who disown the benefits of a community that urgently needs real and unavoidable cultural integration. Each action, including the establishment of a Day of Remembrance for the Victims of Lampedusa in 2013, must serve to make people reflect on the numbers behind which the personal and family stories of men, women and children lie. According to the International Organization for Migration, almost 450 migrants died in the Mediterranean in the first two months of 2016 ( 410 for the UN High Commissioner). In 2015 there were over 3,500, of which 800 children: figures to shudder. But the figures don't tell us the faces, the looks, the eyes of those people who are looking for a more dignified life. Dead in the Mediterranean: a sea that has been cradle of cultural exchanges in the past centuries and that, in the prophetic vision of La Pira, was to represent a bridge, that "lake of Tiberias." And instead this sea has dyed red, of the many lives lost of men and women who sought only a more dignified life. But I want to reinforce the concept of earlier: we cannot allow Europe, as a country, to dump on the good will and the sense of welcome of small communities such as Lampedusa, Augusta, Pozzallo - to remember only the best known - the burden of a very great political responsibility. There is no talk of numbers or fear in those communities, because there is no time. They are the symbol of a generosity and solidarity that really bridge different cultures, offering help and support to those who desperately seek them. The idea of giving the Nobel Peace Prize to Lampedusa is an absolutely commendable initiative, because it advocates the idea of a Europe whose beating heart beats among people. This idea is a concrete boost to our position in Europe, to revisit the Dublin Regulation, to introduce a common asylum management, to convince people of the benefits and not the threats and fears of free movement. It represents, that is, a way to grow in the awareness of the need for reception those communities whose responses are enclosed in the perching and closing. Let us not allow severe austerity and utilitarian aims to prevail in the vision of a Europe that is very likely to bend over itself, to become extinct, and that leaves in the sentiments of the Italians those disturbing numbers for which only 13% of society would be in favour of free movement in the Schengen area. The admonition launched by Marco Impagliazzo in recent days in an editorial on "Avvenire" last week, in order to prevent a new iron curtain from falling on Europe, must make us reflect for a long time on how history can, changed circumstances, cloud minds and make people lose sight of those cultural poles that we have decided to adhere with conviction and that are the basis of our democratic system, based on topics such as inclusiveness, solidarity, hope, acceptance, equality, the right to life and health. Managing migratory flows from a perspective that favours these issues is a challenge, certainly complex, that will also cover the coming years, to which in any case we will have to respond. I hope in this sense that we will speed up the creation of better conditions to start a real process of cultural and humanitarian inclusion, free from drifts or populist temptations. The recent numbers of the migration phenomenon tell us, given to the hand, the reality of having to face an imposing fact: for Frontex were 170,000 arrivals of migrants in Italy in 2015; for the UN 9,000 only in these first two months of 2016. The proposal by the European institutions to create a European Border and Coast Guard, which is for Parliament's attention, and the Commission's choice for a Schengen recovery path, indicate the direction of implementation of the pillars of the 2015 European Agenda on Migration, especially on the idea of common management of migrant flows. If all this can be useful in order to avoid as much as possible repetition of episodes such as that of Lampedusa of 2013, well Europe intervenes in help of the national states and those populations that, for geographical reasons, are at the forefront. These possible embankments, however, do not untie themselves from humanitarian needs, remaining only solutions of facade. Without the conviction that the development of the reception system must be integrated and the management of shared responsibilities, it is difficult to find satisfactory solutions for the management of migratory flows. With this in mind, the resolution, adopted by the European Parliament in recent days, which states that gender violence should be a valid reason for requesting asylum in the Union: protecting children and women who are victims of violence or trafficking in human beings, is one of the most important tasks that a common system must ensure. On 17 January last Pope Francis, the day of the Jubilee of Migrants, recalled how everyone carries with him a history, a culture, precious values; and, unfortunately, often experiences of misery, oppression and fear. The Holy Father reminds us how today, more than in past times, the Gospel of mercy shakes consciences, prevents us from getting used to the suffering of the other and indicates ways of response that can be declined in the works of spiritual and cultural mercy. He added that it is important, therefore, to look at migrants not only on the basis of their condition of regularity or irregularity but, above all, as persons who, protected in their dignity, can contribute to the well-being and progress of all, precisely in order not to reduce migration to purely economic, regulatory and political phenomena. These aspects are complementary to the defence and promotion of the human person, to the culture of the encounter of peoples and unity. Solidarity and understanding are, then, the key values on which to share to address the whole issue of welcome, institutions and civil society. In the Angelus of 6 March, the Pope also recalled the value of humanitarian corridors as a concrete sign for peace and life. Beyond the utopian visions, because beyond the solutions proposed it is difficult to reduce the extent of migratory flows on the EU's member border countries, one can start from concrete projects that avoid as much as tragedies as those of 3 October 2013 can happen again. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the bill we are debating today is intended to recognise 3 October as a National Day in memory of the victims of immigration, with the stated objective of preserving and renewing the memory of those who have lost their lives in an attempt to emigrate to Italy, choosing the date of the shipwreck in Lampedusa, where, unfortunately, 366 migrants died. Far be it from us to diminish the scope of this initiative, but the frankness that must characterize our action and speak in Parliament cannot be held back by the suspicion that this anniversary may appear to be an instrumentalization of the immense tragedy of Lampedusa in order to put in place yet another facade operation. I don't point my finger at anyone. The celebratory attitude often hides Pharisaic practices, a consciously hypocritical action on the part of the political class in the face of collective responsibilities, but of no less weight on the level of individual behavior and political groups belonging to it. On the other hand, serious negotiations at European level should be undertaken to finally put in place an effective policy of reception and redistribution, capable of overcoming the mistrust of national and local communities, averting these immense tragedies and effectively countering illegality, illegality and traffickers of human beings. The establishment of the Day of Memory of the Victims of Immigration, in our opinion, if not accompanied by a concrete change of pace in the actions to combat the criminal organizations dedicated to the trafficking of refugees, can represent only a hairy gift of compassion that hides the inability of the Government to influence the causes of the migration phenomenon; and even less so it makes Europe responsible in the early stages of the migration processes, adopting measures that would be necessary, such as the pro-rata reception of migrants by the Member States. The change of pace involves the assumption of responsibility for Europe to 28, so that the peoples of Europe recognize, jointly and jointly, that we are saved together and that we are dealing with a phenomenon with epochal biblical traits. The exodus can be held back at the root, upstream: in the places where the discomfort arises, opposing policies that provide for Community investment in human, professional, technological and financial resources, in order to guarantee better living conditions, prospects for development, creation of new markets and new professionalism, able to contribute to the progress of those peoples, of those States, today dramatically below the threshold of poverty. Certainly we cannot fail to share the concept of memory when it is the national memory of our history, of our martyrs, of the memory of a past that serves to learn to look to the future with a critical sense, to raise awareness, and to remedy the mistakes committed. In this particular case, however, memory seems to have nothing to do with this kind of suggestion; rather, it seems to have the taste of yet another mirror for the allodles prepared by the political forces present in Parliament, all too often diligent to organize ceremonies and initiatives with good intentions that hide a dark work of proselytism and pure political propaganda. Not to mention that perhaps too often we appeal to the sensitivity of Italians, forgetting, more or less intentionally, to solicit sensitivity for the dark heroes of our recent history and for today's heroes, who every day are victims of the carelessness of a state and an increasingly less attentive and sensitive policy to the tragedies of their citizens. All those, in short, who are not commemorated in any way, just like our victims of immigration, those who in the 1960s, numerous, from the South and the Islands emigrated to the North. Or that dozens of millions of Italian immigrants who, since the early twentieth century, have expatriated, especially from our Mezzogiorno or from the poor pockets of the North and the Centre, to the United States and, in the post-war period, to Germany and countries rich in raw materials such as France, Benelux and Switzerland. Here too, thousands of deaths, inhuman working conditions, state bartering between the labour force for mining and coal to feed the heavy industry, family dramas, painful detachment, dramatic impoverishment of the social, emotional, economic and productive fabric of our countries and our countryside. While we are about to set up the National Day for the Memory of Migrants Victims of the Sea, let us think of these fellow countrymen of ours. We also call diligently, from the benches of the two branches of Parliament, on the institution at the UN of the same political initiative, with the thought directed at the immense pain of humanity that loses thousands of young children, adolescents, girls and children, swallowed up by the Mediterranean Sea in the difficult crossings. The picture of a small shipwreck lying on a remote beach in Turkey has become viral: the small body of Aylan, gathered by pitiful hands and the desperate cry of his parents, grieved by the cynical destiny of the 21st century, dictated by the ignorance of the nations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in my speeches so far I have heard so much feeling, deep emotion and so many skills and proposals. I would like to add a few comments, referring to the high value of this bill, which establishes the National Day of Memory of the Victims of Immigration, which must make people remember and reflect. It is absolutely necessary, and it is only the least, to remember 366 - this number has emerged in all the interventions - died at sea in the first major massacre of Lampedusa and the 20 missing. Let us remember that today more than 20,000 people are dead. In the tragedy of October 3, 2013, many minors died. Then there was only one unaccompanied. How many are and will be unaccompanied minors who will die in these shipwrecks! It is the least to remember them here, just as it is essential to remember that on average every day a cart or a dinghy is swallowed up in the sea, with so many precious human lives. In the third millennium! I would like to mention one fact that is crucial to bear in mind: there are more than 500 million of us, the inhabitants of the European Union, who do not appear to be a welcoming community and who are heavily dividing themselves on values that we thought were the cornerstones and constitutions of the European dream. We still want to keep this dream strong and still. I would like to continue with a sentence by President Donald Tusk, who frankly impressed me very much and also surprised when he announced that we have closed the Balkan route. In what he said there was a bit of rhetorical emphasis that I have grasped and lived with great sadness, as it is a route of hungry people and people fleeing from wars, famines and miseries. But where is the ideal impulse that, after the Second World War, allowed the founding fathers to recognize themselves for common origins citizens of a single geographical and cultural continent? It seems almost unbelievable the point of arrival. Today we see new pushes, but with a speed and with an almost uniformly accelerated way: I am referring to nationalistic pushes, xenophobic regurgitations and uncivilized drives powered by demagogy and low populism picks up votes. Unfortunately, we are witnessing a response made up of manganellates, tear gas, jets of water against men, women, children and the elderly. To people who are looking for a way to hope. Some videos have left civil society bewildered these days. Why does Europe with its democratic institutions put solidarity principles at the corner? Why is it not moving forward with a serious policy of relocation, which the rapporteur has repeatedly called for? Why doesn't he act in synergy? Why don't you discuss Dublin III's Rules of Procedure again? Why are we not looking for urgent and dignified solutions for refugees? Why do we have to succumb to an induced fear? It would be migrants who should be afraid; not us. We must ensure and guarantee safety, which is something else. Why these defensive and closing attitudes? These must not prevail. Italy has done and is still doing its part on the front line for an effective reception policy to identify migrants and manage their flow, to speed up the procedures for relocation, regardless of restrictions, without discrimination, on the basis of nationality. Italy is committed to a policy that is not adequately recognised by Europe. We have the right, sometimes, to punch the table. We must speed up the asylum procedure, ensure that the good practices of the Asylum and Refugee Protection System (SPRAR) are spread and that the transfer from the reception centres takes place quickly. Italy and Greece have agreed to create hotspots, where to identify migrants. These must not, however, be transformed into a grievous, almost semi-carcery structure, where these people are forced to remain for long periods of time. The stop in the hotspots must be really short after identification. Well, Italy and Greece alone cannot solve problems that belong to all 28 member countries of the Union; they belong to the civilization of our Europe. That is why it is important to bear witness with this measure to our daily attention to suffering people who see Europe as dreaming of a possible future and not damnation. For all those who have lost their lives at sea on the voyage of hope (20,000 people only in recent years), the National Day in memory of the victims of immigration is an event and a celebration due and moved. It is a day that, like that of memory and memory - with another bill will also be established for the victims of the mob - must involve the whole adult world, but above all the world of young people and school - others have said so too - in a profound reflection and for a response - well said the rapporteur Mazzoni - to indifference. So that all students, from the world of childhood to that of adolescence, understand the value of man and reflect, not just for a day, on: who is that woman \'clandestineÂ?. The word is often used in a derogatory way. Who's that migrant? Who is the face behind a word? So that all students may think and meddle in the drama and suffering behind the word. Escape from war and death to seek life is not only the fruit of a legitimate desire, but an expression of inviolable right. But this sphere of rights really seems to escape more than anyone. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Micheloni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u20	Madam President, I would like to immediately thank the authors and promoters of this bill, because I think it is a moral and political duty for Italy to address this issue in this way. I would like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, to look back a little, to see why I regard this as a moral and political duty. I want to invite you to look at our story and I don't want to use my own words, but I will allow myself to read some writings. I want to read you some of the pieces of an article published in the Republic on August 28, 2009 by journalist Giulia Vola, who during a trip around the world met with our immigrants: "Buenos Aires." "They threw women into the Ocean, a child and many old people, in all almost twenty people. That's what my father said." Maria Dominga Ferrero lives in the province of Cordoba, Argentina, in the house that her father bought when, in 1888, he arrived at the "Merica" " - it was called "Merica" then, in the language of our migrants - "aboard Matteo Bruzzo." (...) Mary speaks a bit in Piedmontese and a bit in Castilian, while she turns the soup of vegetables that boils on the fire. "Solf was the same. The difference was that if you put up with evil, you could do suerte, lucky. Not as it happens to immigrants who today go to Italy." That's what our first immigrant's daughter says. The article continues: "Felicia Cardano is very old, but remembers well the family stories: "My father arrived in Buenos Aires in 1889 on board the Frisca. During the journey his best friend and thirty other people died. They put it at the Hotel della Rotonda, a huge wooden slum, where it was crammed like sardines with lice and stink. You could stay for a maximum of five days, the time to find a job in the city or in the fields." These scenarios and stories, collected by this journalist, are confirmed by many other writings. Scenarios confirmed by Luigi Barzini who wrote about the Corriere della Sera in 1902: "The Hotel of Migrants (they call it Hotel!) it has a strange shape, it looks like a gasometer equipped with windows (...). The bitter smell of fenic acid cannot overcome the nauseating stink that comes from the slimy and dirty floor. This journalist writes again: "They, the refugees of today, flee from modern wars, from the misery of Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe. We, the victims of that time, fled the Great War. Tell Margherita Lombardi, nephew of Clelia escaped from Alexandria: "My aunt lost one son in battle in 1916 and another in the ocean trip. She was the only one who saved herself." As mothers used to say with terror: "Better a son far away but alive than near but under ground, my grandmother said to my father Fernando." Other testimonials: "We boarded the Philippian without papers and without a penny the day after Miguel returned from the concentration camp in Germany." Another testimony: "My father escaped from Fossano and from the war that had killed a brother," says Antonio Caballero, "he was 17 years old and from the first day began to forget Italy. I've never spoken to my relatives at home. I never learned Italian because no one ever taught me that. None of us made a fortune, we just survived." The popular poets of the Italian South have spoken of this story and Vigo, in 1970, called the moment of the departure of the emigrater "spartenza," or separation, to indicate a violent and painful detachment. During the journey, however, migrants often did not have so much time for wonder, boredom or nostalgia: there were seasickness, indifference and abuse of the crew, fear of shipwrecks and contagious diseases and the possibility of being landed in a country other than the one expected. The Italians lacked effective protection from the law and the speculations of the shipping companies could transform the transoceanic journey into a highly risky experience. The transportation of migrants was a big deal for the Italian merchant navy. Another testimony: in 1894, Edmondo De Amicis traveled from Genoa to Argentina, on board the North American steamer, along with 1,600 Italian emigrants. Published in 1889, the novel "Sull'oceano", which tells the twenty-two days of that trip, got an extraordinary success and became an obligatory model for those who were going to write about the transocean traverse. Both in situations and in lexical choice, the Ligurian writer uses the classic image of Dante's hell to describe the condition of extreme suffering of third class passengers. This literary model has often been adopted by migrants themselves, with reference to their own experience: If Dante had known what the third classes of the transatlantics were in 1885, he would certainly have described one, and would have engulfed it in hell and nailed to it the sinners of the blackest sins. The journey to the new world lasted from two to four weeks, depending on the conditions of the sea and the cargo. During this period, the crowding and filth of the dormitories became such as to push the hygienist Vittorio Cantù to write that the impression of disgusting repugnance that is received by going down to a hold where the immigrants slept is such that, tried only once, he no longer forgets. I took another small testimony from a well-known book by Gian Antonio Stella: They tore it out of my arms, bound it narrow from head to foot, and tied a large stone to her neck; at night, at two o'clock in the night, with those black waves, they dropped it down into the sea. I was screaming, I was screaming, I didn't want to get away from her, I wanted to drown with my little girl (...). I didn't want to leave her alone, poor child, but instead they kept me back while they threw her down. That thud in the water, I can't forget it. All the things I mentioned in this speech are not my words: Mr President, I thought that not using my own words, I would bore the House less, but I see that that is not the case. Although terrible travel conditions could be, very often, however, the main concern of the passengers was that the ship would sink. The Italian emigrants were involved in dozens of shipwrecks, such as those of the shipwreck Utopia, which in 1891 caused 576 deaths, of Ortigia, which caused 249 deaths, of South America, which in 1880 caused 80 deaths, of Bourgogne, which in 1898 caused 549 deaths. And again, there was the shipwreck of the ship Sirius in 1906, in which there were officially 292 dead (although the tombs strangely are more than 500) and that of the ship Princess Mafalda in 1927, in which 385 people perished. As I said at the outset, these are the things that make me say that what we are doing today is a moral duty for us, for Italy, for the people and for the Italian Parliament. However, I do not just want to talk about the past and you will now have to bear my words, Madam President. Is the situation so different today? Has the world changed that much? Is the situation of the people, children, women and men who have made this sad history of Italy different from that of children, women and men today? Immigrants are too many, we'll be invaded. These were the words in Switzerland that said about us in the sixties and seventies, because we were almost a million in that country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] and in those years our invasion of Switzerland gave birth to the first xenophobic political movements. Who has white hair like me will remember a name hardly pronounced in Italian: Schwarzenbach. He was a Member of Parliament, a politician who had the Swiss people voted on the first initiatives not against foreigners, but against Italians and, although I was only seventeen years old, my social and political activity began precisely in fighting those first initiatives. Yet today in that country, which was at risk of the invasion of Italians, our second generation is an integral part of the ruling class: today our children are cantonal or federal deputies, they are judges and leaders in the field of the economy, but in the 1970s it was said that we wanted to destroy Switzerland. I don't think there's much difference between my father, who left Abruzzo doing his debts to pay for the train ticket (because he didn't even have those resources) and went to Switzerland to make my mother, me, my sister and the rest of the family feel better, and the migrants who arrive today. As the daughter of a descendant of our immigrants in Buenos Aires mentioned earlier, perhaps the difference between her father, who arrived in that country under those conditions, and the migrants who today arrive in Italy is that perhaps in Argentina they could make a fortune, while from us they have only big problems. Today, in European politics, an assimilation between two words, which some would like to bring together in just one: equal immigration of crime. It is also said that European prisons are full of foreigners. In the 1970s, with a manipulation in reading that can be made of statistical data, it was argued that Swiss prisons were full of Italians. [[Applause from Senator Lo Moro]] Well, that's the same thing we say today about immigration, but now with an attack: immigration equals delinquency plus terrorists. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to reflect on the dramatic events in Paris, because the terrorists who hit that city were all foreign migrants: in fact they were French and Belgians, or European citizens born in Europe; they were children of immigrants. How, then, is such a thing possible? Why do we want to remove this reality without thinking? Because this would put us in front of the general failure of various national policies with respect to the word "integration". [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Orellana]] The problem of migration, of the phenomena related to migrants, is that these are a mirror in which the society that receives is reflected and it is not beautiful what is reflected in that mirror. And then, since the image that that mirror sends back to us of our society is not beautiful, it is no longer the fault of society itself, but of the migrant who forces us to look inside that mirror. The word 'integration' deserves a debate in this House and in the Italian political world, as far as we are concerned, and it deserves it at European level, as Mr Liuzzi mentioned earlier. Know that there is no goodness in my words because it would be too convenient and too easy and I believe that the real enemy of integration, the real enemy of the possibility of seriously addressing these issues, is precisely goodness. In the word "integration" there is no goodness. Integration is a complicated word, it is a word in which you can put everything and the opposite of everything, but we should agree, one day, on what it should contain. We must look at the rest of the world and the rest of Europe for what they have done, for the good things and the bad things we have done in Europe. For example, France, for years, has argued that integration was not a viable path, but that the right path was assimilation, which means that if I arrive in France I must assimilate myself with the French. The British have supported another theory, I don't even know how to define it: multiethnicity, except to realize that in the English outskirts there are clashes because when a community lives closed on itself it is not integrated. The word "integration" cannot be left to sociologists and specialists. The word "integration" covers society, all policies, including urbanism. The urbanism policy of a city can be an element of isolation and therefore of problems. Integration means policies for school and policies for work. Why not open this reflection and debate in Italy and Europe? Why is there no Commissioner for Migration and Integration in Europe? [[Applause from Senator Puppato]] Why have we never raised this issue? Why does Italy not make proposals that respect our history that is rich in emigration experiences? I believe that we should do this and if we do it seriously then we can try to make sense of the word 'integration'. I ask the President to be patient for two more minutes, if possible, to tell us a little experience we have had in a small non-European country, Switzerland, where I have aged. A few years ago, in 2002, the associations of foreigners resident in Switzerland met thinking of doing something simple: talking to each other (from 56 different nationalities at the time) and writing what we called the Charter of Integration without talking to Swiss friends. We wondered if we foreigners could agree on certain values with which we could then introduce ourselves to Swiss society by saying that we were ready to integrate ourselves on these values. It took us a year and a half to write four leaflets, Madam President, because the problem is precisely that: integration means that I, a foreigner, do not arrive in a desert to conquer, but in a society that has its values and to live with them I know that I will have to give up some of mine, just as that society will have to be able to welcome also the new one I am bearer of. Therefore, no goodism; a clear and transparent, equal relationship between citizens who have a common destiny: to build a better society than that in which we live today. The word "integration" refers us to our policies, to Realpolitik. I, who are not of the political family of the German Chancellor Merkel, cannot but express great respect for his reaction to the vote on Sunday in Germany. Despite the results of the vote, Mrs Merkel continues to stress that the right immigration policy is what she proposes. He'll pay for it, but he'll carry it forward. We are therefore also reminded of this, of a genuine policy of development cooperation. And development cooperation policy cannot be determined by the interests of our organizations or companies, which for decades has always reasoned with a view to investing a euro as long as two of them return to its coffers. That is not the real policy of development cooperation. This debate must serve to open a wider debate. I believe that at least our moral duty today has been fulfilled by the bill on our examination. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Uras.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u21	I address the Assembly's greeting to the students and students of the Institute of Higher Education Bertarelli-Ferraris in Milan, who attend our work. Welcome to the Senate! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u22	Madam President, what happened on 3 October 2013 off Lampedusa was undoubtedly a very serious tragedy: 366 people died among men, women and children. That's for sure. However, will the draft law in question affect in any way to limit the dramatic events, the shipwrecks that still take place in these days? It is clear to all that the measure will have no bearing on these tragic events. So the question we need to answer is what it's for. If it has no tangible, immediate effect in order to avoid such tragedies, what is the reason why the Senate and the House must be engaged today and in the future to approve it? What is the objective? First of all, it is a question of organizing ceremonies on 3 October each year aimed at raising public awareness of civil solidarity with migrants, respect for human dignity and the value of each individual's life, integration and acceptance. It has the other objective of promoting in schools of every order and degree - always on the date of 3 October - meetings aimed at raising awareness and training young people on the issues of immigration and reception. It is clear that that day will inevitably be devoted to propaganda on the policies of immigration of the left, the Democratic Party and this Government. It will have no concrete effect in saving lives, but it will have the sole objective of educating young people to a vision of the issue of immigration as set out by a political side. We clearly believe that the hypocrisy underlying the measure is absolutely unacceptable, that it serves only a political part to affirm its visions with respect to such a serious issue that concerns our society, our country, the whole of Europe in recent years. We should then ask ourselves: but has the policy that has been implemented by this Government, that of the reception and travel of hope (of false hopes), been effective in avoiding the deaths and devastating effects that have affected many people? Or was it precisely this policy that caused hundreds of thousands of people to cross the sea and have caused the death of all migrants? This question will not be answered on that day, because in it there will be a unique and exclusive vision, yours, that of your majority, that according to which the only reason why the deaths occurred is because our society is not sufficiently sensitive to the issue of reception and integration. But it's not like that. It's totally fake. We oppose that in schools we want to affirm the unique thought carried out by your vision of society, seasoned by hypocrisy, falsehood and false goodness, which does not represent what should be done by our country to avoid such tragic effects. To deny the dramatic presence of victims and deaths to propaganda and to support a specific immigration policy is an absolutely misleading and petty act. To exploit the good feelings of public opinion to make propaganda is unbearable and - in my opinion and in the North League - represents a form of cynicism that is perhaps worse than that of the indifferent compared to such human tragedies. This measure is not useful to anyone: it is not useful to migrants, to our country and to our citizens. It is useful, perhaps, only for a political part that will have the possibility, on one day of the year, to affirm in the schools and ceremonies that it will want to realize throughout the national territory its exclusive vision on the subject of immigration. That will be the day of the Democratic Party propaganda. For these reasons the North League does not want to indulge in the debates that have taken place and mix very different themes, such as the migration of Italians from many Regions in the decades following the Unity of Italy and after the First World War with today's migrations: they are two totally different phenomena, which must not be assimilated and cannot be compared. Through them we are only trying to create in the mood of the people who have experienced those phenomena or have remembered the perception that we must be supportive and favorable to the form of acceptance that you promote, having been also in the past of migrants who have sought luck in other areas of the world. I repeat that these are two totally different issues, which must be kept firmly separate. The North League does not share this debate; it does not agree that Parliament should be involved in such matters; it does not understand why the Day of the Victims of Immigration has more dignity than the Day of the Victims of the Economic Crisis (which are unfortunately so many) or terrorism. It is therefore clear that there is only and exclusively cynical propaganda at the root of this measure. Even if we are the only political force against the measure, we want to say our opposition and say no to the pettyness and hypocrisy that we are listening to in this unnecessary parliamentary debate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u24	Madam President, I would like to speak by offering my fellow senators, the Presidency and the representatives of the Government a different reflection, a reflection, that is, that does not fall into that easy slippery plan, in that slippery slope, in the light of which, of course, any subject that is dealt with, no matter how noble and inspired by higher values, may decay, can miserably slide, in an exquisitely political dimension, if not of a party order, perhaps of a current order. For this reason, I believe that the intuition to be able to set up a National Day in memory of the victims of immigration is a completely happy and acceptable idea, for a number of reasons that I will now present, Madam President and fellow senators, to your attention. Setting up a National Day for Memory means, of course, avoiding that one can fall into that oblivion which is a characteristic of human dimensions and which, of course, also gives rise to a sort of psychological removal of everything that negatively and dramatically could have characterized not even the past, but a present past and, even more so, a future present. All this means a new redeclination, and the establishment of a Day in memory of the victims of immigration has a symbolic meaning. I would like once again to recall the etymology of the word symbol which - as the Greeks have taught us - means union (from symbàllein, to unite). And this must be precisely the meaning of the said day: a day that unites and does not divide, that unites not in a purely political perspective - it can also be a transeunte value - but essentially because of a sharing of values. We can put it, therefore, on anthropologically defined values. It also has its own symbolism, not surprisingly, Madam President, that the date should be defined on 3 October, in memory of hundreds of migrants who died off Lampedusa. To remember those hundreds means not to hide the thousands and thousands of deaths that have occurred in the Mediterranean, and not only, because along the Balkan route thousands more people, migrants or refugees who are, flee from poverty and war, for political or other reasons, and try to reach lands that can guarantee them freedom, a civilization, a democracy, a sufficient chance of living. And it is quite significant not only to describe, but to live those images that come not only from the Balkan area. If we went to dive into other seas and some areas of our great Mediterranean, we would find to impact on what were the consequences of a journey in search of a happiness and a half that, like a sort of new crossing of the desert, leads to look for those values and that country that, otherwise, would be denied. This is the true meaning, noble and high, in establishing a day of memory, which does not mean to make it part of the number of events that, perhaps, are in danger of falling into the oblivion of a social utilitarianism. So it is not and so it must not be for a reason and a given exquisitely objective, which I would like to subject to your attention. We are witnessing a historical phenomenon, an inevitable migration that will mark the passage, diversity and change of our social life. And if this change is to be characterized by hundreds and thousands of deaths, our civilization, our democracy and our social ethics require us, not only to remind them but, of course, to put into place all those actions that give the possibility that this will never happen again. Someone - it is true - in this House could tell me that this is a utopia, a dream, an easy hope. But I believe that many times our history has been characterized by those utopias, those dreams and those that were considered easy hopes that, even with difficulty, have been realized. I believe that this path, which was first defined as integration and interaction, will be inevitable. To refuse, to build barbed wire barriers and to raise walls only temporarily serve not to find a solution and, essentially, to further exacerbate situations of intolerance at international level. Inevitably, however, all the walls that have been built in history will be overcome and crossed. In fact, before or after all the walls have collapsed and the bridges have remained, which represent - even these symbolically - that interconnection civilization and that foundational interrelation of human existence. I would particularly like to stress and pay attention to the fact that man is constitutively relational: it is in the relationship of the other, in the encounter with an I or with a you that is realized that first plural person representing civilization, society, true humanism and us. It is therefore in the dimension of that separation and division where the ego does not confront itself, but collides with the tu, which inevitably erases the constitutive relationality of the human being, that is, that of being in relation to another. I want to specify better that it is not only in terms of interrelationship, but also of reciprocity and relationship that I can be with another, that can be a friend of mine, a colleague or even a foreigner, that we can define as such. In the dimension of a relationship one is to be with another, while in the dimension of the noble interrelationship (i.e. that of reciprocity) there is no longer the declination of being with another, but the other declination of life, that is, of being for another. And in the dimension of being for another, I will no longer be - as Leibniz would say - a monad, i.e. without doors and windows. If it were to be so, I will be an unrelated subject, namely that, as such, he will be uncontested master, absolute dominus, intangible and unapproachable emperor, but inevitably I will be alone. In the dimension of solitude, in the absence of reciprocity and not of interrelationship, in the absence of being for the other, there is no civilization, there is no social relationship, there is no otherness, there is no social communion, there is no community. And the community cannot be constituted between people who feel equal to each other: the community is built, founded and elaborated on the basis of that diversity or, more correctly, that otherness that represents the dimension of being other and beyond. In the dimension of being other and beyond - let me put to your attention the following consideration - there is no more horizontal order, but there is verticality, which is not to be interpreted - as someone would like - in a religious or trustworthy reading. This is not the case and it cannot only be so, as the secular dimension characterizes our society. The dimension of verticality means recognizing you in us: this is the community, civilization, democracy. So how can we say that the other, as a foreigner, doesn't belong to us? If we wanted to make an elementary etymological research of the word "welcome" in Greek, we would see that it refers to the word "dèchomai", which in turn refers to "filòxenos", that is to say to be a friend of the foreigner. Therefore, he may also be a foreigner, because he belongs to another land and to another State, but in the exquisitely anthropological dimension - the only one that exceeds and goes beyond any legislation - the other cannot be a foreigner. Then - as a philosopher in the field of the philosophy of law said - we live in a society where we all consider ourselves moral foreigners. In the dimension of moral alienity there is only one law: who is stronger than the other. In the dimension, instead, of building and overcoming the moral stranger in a moral friend, you and I will walk together. Then, we will no longer be the unapproachable and intangible monads or emperors. In the construction of the relationship of the other and the reception of the other without distinction of skin, sex and race we build our civilization. There will be a room that will have many doors. Let us do the opposite of what Leibniz said: I will no longer be a monad, an undisputed emperor; I will need neither walls nor barbed lines; I will need the other, because it is in the other that I build my identity. And the other - I repeat - cannot be who is the same as me. It would be very easy, obvious and predictable to be able to share an experience with those who have assumptions almost comparable to mine. With the other that raises questions and presents a different story I can build the dimension of us. Other keywords seem to me to have read in the draft law under consideration. And I say this with a sort of rhetorical euphemism, because they are written very clearly. I refer to the expression 'civil solidarity': solidarity between actors is based on reciprocity. We cannot be in solidarity with ourselves, because we will sin that selfishness and selfishness of which politics is characterized many times. But politics - as one of my masters of political philosophy said - is ethical of coexistence, of living together, that is, of being with each other and of building together the path of respect for human dignity. And I would like to stress that. As far as the theme of human dignity is concerned, many times we have found ourselves declining the expression "human dignity" as if it belonged only to certain ethnic groups or populations. Dignity is distinguished in two categories: intrinsic and extrinsic or attributed. The dignity attributed is fallacious. Everyone can, in some moments of life, according to a sort of historical and ethical requirement of opportunity and utilitarianism, recognize or disown another human being's dignity. But it is another that characterizes every human being and is defined as intrinsic dignity. The latter is the heritage of everyone and everyone. Being, therefore, an intrinsic dignity, it cannot not be recognized; it cannot not be made to assert, not attributed or highlighted, but recognized to all those subjects who have different external characteristics and who come from social realities duty. Dignity is not something that I, a stronger state, can or can not recognize to a human being who comes from Syria or sub-Saharan Africa. He is already the bearer of intrinsic dignity, because dignity is written in the true and proper typology of the human being. There is another keyword that is reported inside the text and on which a consonant game is played. I'm talking about integration and interaction. I would be very careful, as far as the word integration is concerned, because, without it being prepared and having a preliminary foundation, which is that of interaction, it would be interpreted as an ex-chair position of those who want others to integrate by reason of recognition of detachment as if they were those foreigners to whom it is granted the possibility of being able to integrate. We can, however, integrate ourselves through a rule of law; we can integrate ourselves through a decree, a device, a provision; but this is partial, because it is contingent on the legislative aspect. True integration needs a fundamental ethical value, what is called interaction, because only and only through interaction can we - it is a passage to me dear - integrate each other. Integration is not a plus from someone towards someone else who represents a minus. It actually represents, in the own complementarity that characterizes human nature, the dimension of reciprocity that, through interaction, ensures that two realities, two minuses in complementarity, can go and constitute that unity that is proper to the human being. (18.16) (Romano followed). That is why I believe that the dimension of interaction is a founding element, a social element, which must be accompanied, must be supported, must be supported by a whole series of initiatives, which certainly do not mean - and this is another thing that we must put to the attention of the public debate - to be goodists and accept everything and everything. It means being able to recognize all those who really need help. And the need for help arises from suffering and discomfort. It is not easy for the truth - and I would like to remind this House, that on some issues, sometimes, for party reasons or currents, it is a bit distracted - to meet a 15-year-old who has suffered so much violence - as I have met him - in the path from sub-Saharan Africa to Italy, to the point of having injuries that prevent him from using sight. It is not easy to become blind at 15 years of age for having been subjected to violence. Let us not then tell the violence that women have suffered or the way in which those people are collected, before giving rise to the famous journeys, which are not even of hope, but journeys of despair with which they face death. They are locked up in hangars and shattered each other, without even having the chance of a living space and being able to sit down. If you tell me that, with regard to these people, to this humanity, there must not be the word "welcome" and there must be no memory of the two at one: either we are out of time or someone else is out of time in a very, very serious way. I believe that this is one of the other aspects that is the foundation of what is defined and I want to define - to me it seems strongly - moral indifferentism. That's not goodness. Moral indifferentism means essentially to believe that everything then passes, that everything has no value. The problem and criticality of certain issues belong only to the other, to that neighbor, perhaps, who will have a color of skin completely different from ours, or to that community that welcomes them to hundreds, in order to give them the chance to live. But what can all this mean? It means that, where there is moral indifferentism, there is obviously relativism and, in the dimension of relativism, there is no room anymore for the dignity of every single person. If there is relativism, inevitably the strongest will prevail over the weakest. And so we will find that some states and governments will feel that they can not respond to this need for help and not to open the doors, which obviously does not mean once again bringing everything in and everything, but it means giving the right support. Let us remember the last experience, that of humanitarian corridors, which have a very important foundation: through them we give the opportunity to arrive in Europe, in those States where we can ensure a survival capacity, with security and assistance not only at institutional level, but also and above all of associations that, in terms of volunteering, have shown that they are very operational and provide extremely concrete answers. It is clear that all this must respond to a memory, to be remembered every year on October 3, but perhaps it must be greened day by day. And I deeply believe what I say, for a very simple reason: at this moment, in which we are all dealing in a way that is perhaps not extremely careful on this subject, in some area of the world, not far from us, thousands of people are looking for a land where they can land. We have kids. We do not remember, except in the emotionalism that characterized the media in those moments, that child named Aylan, about four years old, found on the shores of Turkey. But there are thousands and thousands of Aylans, who have not even landed, from the dead - I must say - on the shores of Turkey. That is to say that hundreds and hundreds are immersed and their memory and memory, I do not say they do justice, but they do honor to poor innocent people who, together with their parents, seek a homeland, a land in which to land. I believe that this is the meaning and symbol of a measure such as this. My speech began by recalling the word'synbàllein', which means uniting: that the day of memory is not merely a remembrance, but a moment of union and cooperation, in which reception and reciprocity, together with solidarity, combine in terms of responsibility. Responsibility can be declined in two ways: either as a pondering rem, which means weighing the decision that you go to take, or - according to another definition to me much more expensive - as a reply, that is to give an answer to those who ask you. Clearly, if someone asks you, it means that he needs help, and I'm responsible for that. He is not a foreigner, but anthropologically he is like me and with the assumption of mutual responsibility, in a kind of mutual donation, you can build a path. Once again someone may think that the issue of responsibility also requires an organization at the level of the State and the Government. And I agree, because welcoming isn't the only therapy to use biomedical language. We must act at several levels, making possible a peace in those territories where insistent war, unbridled poverty and terrorism are the main cause of the flight of so many innocent people (that is how we must define them). Perhaps it is true: among so many innocent people there will be someone who wants to come to Europe for other criminal actions. In that case there is a need for intelligence action, a control action, but you cannot lift walls and barbed wires in a general way, so that no one can enter. To carry out an action of memory means to assume the responsibility not only to commemorate, but also to give a complete, multifactorial and interdisciplinary response, which cannot be only in the reception, but also in the war that is brought, not even in the humanitarian corridors and not even in giving answers to those territories. It means all these factors together, to bring the desired result. And it is true that we would be wrong if we thought we could achieve a definitive result only through the indiscriminate reception. How wrong would those who think that bringing war could result in improper pacification. It's not like that. Only the international community - and no longer the responsibility of Italy - can take responsibility for giving an answer, because otherwise of the two each, and I want to say it in a very clear and firm way: either the European Union has the foundations of civilizations that have been defined in the Jewish-Christian culture, or it has become so secularly utilitarian that, since we are filled with a wealth only of our own, of a pseudo-richness, it is not given the possibility of sharing it with others. And I want to think about that, too. It is always thought that migrants arriving in Italy can only bring poverty. If we go to examine the latest data not only demographic, but also those derived from a careful assessment of the economy, we will read how they give rise to the possibility of enrichment. I do not want to make controversy, but some regions of Italy, such as Lombardy and Veneto, have a good chance of economic progress precisely because of the presence of migrants. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] I know someone can think a little hard, but that's the reality. I would therefore like to conclude, Mr President, by recalling a secular prayer, the author of which is Erri De Luca, who is re-declining our Father again, remodulating him in a text entitled "Our Sea." Erri De Luca says: "Our Sea, which is not in heaven, and embraces the borders of the island and the world, bless your salt, and bless your seabed. Welcome the crowded boats without a road over your waves, the fishermen who came out in the night, their nets among your creatures, who return in the morning with the fishing of the shipwrecked saved. Our sea that you are not in the heavens, at dawn six colors of wheat, at the sunset of the grape harvest, we have sown you of drowned more than any age of storms. Our sea that you are not in the heavens, you are more righteous than the mainland, even when you raise wall waves then knock them down. Keep the lives, the visits dropped like leaves on the avenue, do autumn for them, caress, hug and kiss in the forehead of mother and father before leaving. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD and Senators Bell and Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u25	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u26	Mr President, I do not know if my voice will be outside the choir, but I would like to go upstream and say that there is one thing that we Westerners have been doing very well for centuries now: we give ourselves the right to know what is best for the other peoples of the world. Generally speaking, these people have a territory rich in mineral and energy resources, positioned in strategic places for economic interests of various kinds. This is how our international peace missions start, aimed at exporting our little disinterested democracy, creating hatred and internal contrasts (the other side of civil wars), claiming as the ultimate goal a better world for all. Thanks to this method of action in 2015 more than 2,000 people died in the Mediterranean. They are people forced to flee their war-torn land, chasing the hope of a better future to seek shelter. This is how women, children and young people remain victims of drowning, protagonists of a trafficking in human lives reduced to mere trade. As much as it pains me, I would like to stress even more that I do not want to entrench myself behind a guilty memorial silence of Italian politics, that same policy accomplice to the creation of this situation. More than a commemorative day there is a need to act, to say the things as they are, to make the name and surname of the guilty and to avoid the false goodness and the attempt to generate a war between the poor, between citizens and migrants. The responsibility cannot be of those who flee, but of those who force them to flee, or of those who generate devastating wars in the name of economic interests and financial speculations, masking them as actions of peace or defence of our territories. This is what happened in Libya and is also happening in Syria. The solutions that the technocrats in Brussels propose to us and which today seem to go the most are the closure of internal borders and the discharge of barrel towards those states most exposed, already damaged at an economic level by European austerity policies. States such as Greece and Italy would want to abandon their destiny and then agreements are made with Mr Erdogan, who constantly violates the most basic human rights and threatens to flood European countries if he does not receive what he asks: basically destroy the Kurdish people undisturbed. This is how international missions against Libya are set up and then agreements and agreements are made with Saudi Arabia which, in 2015, made records of executions by stonings, hangings and the like, even in public. On the other hand, the imperialism that provokes immigration can only gain a high profit from the entry of new exploitable masses, for a downward game based on the competition of migrant workers with Italian workers that generates a decrease in wages and rights. We invest multiple resources for armaments, raising useful funds for health, school and social services, for military actions imposed by NATO, and therefore by the United States, to those states from which refugees come for management then which will require more money and therefore more money. To fight against the exploitation of immigration, to remember the victims of this exodus, means to fight against that system that from the destruction and reconstruction of entire territories gets us well and much; it means to fight against a system of reception that does not deal with the effective protection of unaccompanied foreign minors and that disappear from the centers without leaving trace and then go to increase the ranks of the exploited by the holders of the monopoly of street crime. Not to mention the mechanism for the procurement of reception services: Mafia Capitale teaches how much can be enriched on the skin of refugees to the detriment then of the poor citizens, who barely retain some social right for themselves. If you are not able to protect the right to health of the citizens of this State (and today's data show this) let alone those who land on our coasts. For this reason, I say that we need less guilty silences in a sign of respect and consequent commemorative days and more reflections on the fact that people must win the right to full self-determination and control of their resources without external interference, which are only likely to create monsters like ISIS. [[Applause from Senator Pepe]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u27	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u28	Mr President, the draft law we are debating today emphasizes a very important issue and, contrary to one of my previous colleagues, I believe it is absolutely useful to create awareness of what is actually migration and the motivations that determine it, generated by the same forces responsible for the discomfort in the so-called Western countries. For decades now there has been a real recovery of the great economic and financial powers and corporations aimed at maximizing profits by passing over human rights, human rights in the countries of the so-called third world and human rights in Western countries. The matrix is the same. The thing that makes species is that for reasons of political convenience some political forces ingenuity to invent a war between the poor emphasizing all the criticalities, that are determined not by the migrants as such but by the lack of government of the phenomenon. You see, I come from Sicily, a place from which he has emigrated for decades and from which he still emigrates today. I know the causes for which one can emigrate from one of the Sahel countries: in Sicily, as in the sub-Saharan countries, funds arrive, but they are extremely well addressed: they go to particular people and classes, to those who govern; basically to the powerful, often - almost always - prey to corruption, without reaching the populations of those countries. This leads to a situation whereby the funds that arrive in the Sahel countries, which arrive in the countries of sub-Saharan Africa, return to the West, to the Swiss banks or to the banks of tax havens, leaving nothing, if not the weapons, in the countries from which they have passed. What's weird, then, if someone who dreams of a happy life decides to leave these places? As I told you, I have seen a large part of my town empty, of the hamlets: the kids, the smart ones, the most dynamic, the ones that should and should be the way to the ransom of my land have gone away. These same considerations I have heard from a Senegalese friend, who told me that the worst thing is that the boys grow up with the mirage of a place where you can live peacefully and give up fighting for the improvement of their land. They renounce because all hope is withered; because there you risk your life: you risk it for robberies, for wars, for Islamic terrorism. He told me that many of the fishermen who are no longer able to work in the Niger Delta turned to the work of boatmen. This is what generates the unbridled role of competition in our world. These people arrive in Italy and are kept on the rocks or piled in fields (which should be welcoming but similar to others), and then are welcomed in our cities without being able to work or do any kind of activity. We're talking about guys who are twenty or twenty-five years old. We make discomfort (among other things by spending money, because we do not do it to save money) because we renounce to define a culture of reception. I spoke a few days ago with the mayor of Palermo, who used a phrase that seemed extremely interesting to me: For me the reception is the first form of security. Migrants with my administration talk to us, they relate: if any strange character arrives in Palermo, I am among the first to know. This means making those who before being migrants feel like people are part of something, and making them feel welcomed means generating the conditions for a society that is not only better than it is now, but that tends to improve. History can be a teacher of life for those who want to study it, but unfortunately this concept is not widely used today. Another time known to all when the territory of today's Europe was invaded by people seeking survival was the end of the Roman Empire. At the end of the Roman Empire the areas that resisted best, those that were then able to assume the hegemony within the western world, the areas covered by the Frank Empire, were those that before and better than the others knew how to integrate the new arrivals and collaborate with them rather than closing in hedgehog constituting two different societies. The secret is this: integrating these people, linking our culture with theirs in order to seek a superior synthesis, also because in this land in fact of clear indisputable truths do not have them and we do not have them. This kind of secular awareness can allow us to live better this 21st century, which began so badly. I believe that this law can do a lot in this direction; it can move us to live with these new fellow citizens - I hope - and it can drive away the ideology of the Russians that must be increasingly foreign to us, if we want to survive. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u29	Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion, consisting of three articles, provides for the establishment of National Day in memory of the victims of immigration, identifying it on 3 October. With this institution we intend to preserve and renew the memory of those who have lost their lives in an attempt to emigrate to our country in order to escape from wars, persecution and misery. The choice of 3 October as a commemorative date is undoubtedly a necessary act in memory of the sad shipwreck of 3 October 2013 in Lampedusa, when 366 migrants died. It should be specified that this Day does not determine the civil effects of Law No 260 of 1949. On the other hand, Article 2 provides for ceremonies, initiatives, meetings aimed at raising public awareness of solidarity, respect for human dignity, integration and acceptance. More specifically, following an amendment, it was envisaged that the organisation of specific initiatives in schools of every order and grade should be promoted by the institutions of the Republic and not, as originally established, exclusively by the Minister for Integration and by the Minister for Education, University and Research; whereas Article 3 stipulates that the implementation of the proposal under consideration should not result in new or greater burdens on public finance. Surely the passage of this proposal into Parliament allows us to deal with a subject which is as serious as it is currently for Italy and Europe. In fact, the aforementioned date recalls the most tragic among the shipwrecks of migrants in the Sicilian Channel, but not the only one: a drama that is still repeated today. It is estimated that in these years more than 20,000 people have lost their lives at this point in the Mediterranean, a stretch of sea that seems to have become a cemetery. We know well how the Mediterranean - the Mare nostrum, as the Romans called it, expression that gave the name to the important and precious operation in the Mediterranean by our country - is always the cradle of civilization, the seat of trade and cultural exchanges, meetings and clashes, conquests and liberations. But in our time, as well as being an extraordinary tourist destination, it is increasingly characterized by the crossing of migrants - legal or illegal - often from the tragic epilogue. In order to be less long the blood trail that has stained, and continues to stained the waters of our sea, have contributed and contribute in an extraordinary way the Navy, the Coast Guard, the Finance Guard, the Carabinieri, the Police and those, starting from operation Mare nostrum and the ordinary citizens - first of all the inhabitants of Lampedusa - have suffered so much and offered themselves to save many human lives. Let us say that with the operation Mare nostrum we have demonstrated the civilization of Italy; the pride of a country that at the same time knows how to reach out and face the human drama of thousands of people who seek our shores as a goal of hope. Italy is certainly not the country of cuccagna, but it represents the concrete alternative to war, death and persecution. With Operation Mare nostrum we have interrupted a immobilism that lasted too many years; and during a world economic crisis we have said no to the cynicism of those who professed the defense of the Homeland through the rejections of shipwrecks of the sea charged with people who paid, even, to cross the narrow arm of the channel of Sicily. But this is not our identity, nor our history, and rejections are not included in the values of our Constitutional Charter. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we therefore believe that Italy has done and is doing so much - often working alone, under difficult conditions and not always with adequate economic means - to welcome the masses of refugees who travel to our coasts humanly and civilly. We must say this with some pride, a reality confirmed by the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, who in recent days, visiting our country, said that Italy is a model for the whole of Europe in the policy of welcoming migrants. Unfortunately, however, it is true that Europe itself, which is responsible for Triton, has not always been on time to understand the dramatic nature of an exodus often conditioned by unscrupulous criminals. What we need is a more active attitude, greater commitment, greater involvement, initiatives to discourage. No Member State in Europe can be regarded as a mere spectator; at the same time, there is no country that is able, alone, to overcome all these challenges. A radical change is needed in relation to what the Union has done so far, or has refused to do. The sin that many have committed was, once again, indifference. Many countries, far from the coasts of the Mare nostrum, believed they could be safe by ignoring what was happening only a few miles away from the borders of southern Europe. We must admit that ours is a Europe that is still struggling to find a unified sense in dealing with immigration policies but, above all, also that face of solidarity, humanity and reception that is needed, especially in these dramatic hours when thousands of people continue to flee from the crime and terrorism of ISIS, to the persecution of Christian minorities in Nigeria, Kenya and what happens in the Horn of Africa, to the neighbouring Libya and the chaos that we all know. Therefore, we believe that the draft law under consideration is intended to provide our legislative framework with an instrument of memory and conscience: to remember men, women and children whose name we do not even know and who do not know the past, but of whom we know that their journey had to deliver them to a better future. Memory of the past is indispensable to learn to look to the future with a critical sense and remedy the mistakes made. It may seem pure rhetoric, demagogy or something else, but the institution of the National Day in memory of the victims of immigration instead intends to contribute, through the memory of a massacre of migrants, to the spread of a stronger sense of civil solidarity on the part of all, respect for human dignity, awareness of the value of the life of every human being and the value of the welcome so that tragedies like these do not be repeated. Here we would like to recall the actions and words of Pope Francis, a son of the migrations of the last century, who tells the story of many Italians left to escape war and poverty. Almost to want to reiterate this history of flows, on the occasion of the first journey of his pontificate - it was July 2013 - the Pope wanted to go right there, to Lampedusa, an island in the middle of the Mediterranean, which in recent years has become the symbol of welcome. This frontier of Europe of ours is a crossroads of hope, but also of death, with the difficulties of being too small a land to accommodate the expectations of those who come from the African continent. In Lampedusa Pope Francis, as in his style, used words of mercy, but also of warning, urging us to say no to the globalization of indifference. We think that, together with the extraordinarily strong message that the Pontiff was able to give from that island, we too have the task and the duty to say no to the indifference that still comes from our politics and even from Europe. And it is to say no to the indifference and yes to the conscience and responsibility of the reception - I begin to conclude - that we hope that we can quickly reach the approval of the draft law under consideration. It is therefore necessary for our community to be endowed with instruments of awareness capable of strengthening the above-mentioned values of solidarity. The hope is also that on 3 October it is not only the National Day in memory of the victims of immigration, but also marks a new beginning and a new vision in the history of Europe. With the hope that this will be realized, I announce the favorable vote of the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) to the bill, since it is undoubtedly a forerunner and promoter of the values of solidarity, commitment and memory, which will always represent robust bulwarks against indifference, inhumanity and historical forgetfulness, which are - unfortunately - increasingly rooted attitudes in this difficult historical phase that crosses not only Italy and Europe, but the whole of humanity. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u31	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u32	Mr President, the draft law under consideration is very concise, consisting of three articles. Article 1 establishes for the day of 3 October the National Day in memory of the victims of immigration and defines who are immigrants, that is those who escape war, persecution and misery. Article 2 of the measure has the function of defining what is the dynamic through which the goal of remembrance is achieved. It is a question of organising moments in which public opinion is made aware of civil solidarity, respect for human dignity, the value of life, integration and acceptance. The article also states that this must be done by promoting initiatives in schools of every order and grade, so that this awareness may start mainly from our children and young people. There will also be a reason for us to decide on the establishment of a moment of this nature, which aims to encourage the organization of initiatives aimed at our young people to raise cultural awareness of the issues of respect for human dignity and the value of life. The reason is that unfortunately we live in a world and a country where respect for human dignity and the value of life is not as widespread as it should be because not even all our young people have it because we do not act as a guide for these values to be established in our society. The memory of migrants cared for does not necessarily need a particular day in the year. The memory comes to us every day when we open the papers of a newspaper, when we watch a news, when we look out the door of the house. In fact, this story is in fact very current, it is historically current; perhaps sometimes a little distant from our home, but it concerns this world since always, even in the modern, industrial and post-industrial era. It would suffice to think that the Italian migrants in the last one hundred and forty years have been thirty million, that is about half of our current population. Most of the descendants of our Italians live in countries that have been recipients of migratory flows from our regions, cities and countries through the same dangers that now meet those who come to Europe and endure, in many circumstances, the same way of reception that they find in this continent; I refer to walls, barbed wire, impossibility of access, forced returns and so on. I say this because it is essential to intervene on a cultural level, that is, on education through schools. It is not true that this is a law of propaganda; it is a law that intervenes in the heart of the reasons why those who are victims of migratory processes and forced flows flee from unbearable living conditions and so that they have the consideration of those who can help, welcome, refresh and give guarantees of a dignified life and free from fear. Mr President, I think that is precisely the function of this piece of legislation, and that is why it is bothering us. The reason why this measure can annoy some political environments and cultures present in Europe and Italy lies precisely in the fact that it intervenes on the educational processes; it intervenes on the construction of an idea and a culture of reception respectful of the dignity and life of people. The education that is provided, however, and the examples that come to us from public authorities are exactly in the opposite direction and make Europe and Italy, in some circumstances, realities and societies difficult to defend and bear. We must have another memory, because Europe has already passed into the culture of racial laws, into the culture of extermination on the basis of belonging to a religion, of belonging to a political culture, of belonging to a sexual orientation. Europe has already passed through it and it has been a tragedy for the whole world; it has already passed through the barbed wire, Europe, it has already passed through the rejection of the other, it has already passed through persecution because of the political opinions, ideas and cultures that belong to it. It has already passed; and it has been such a tragedy for the rest of the world, as well as for Europe, that it has taken decades to try to lift us up and to try to recover our dignity as men in this country and in Europe. I hope that we will not all vote for the same thing here. I certainly hope that we will not all vote for this law, because if we do not vote for it all, this will not be a hypocritical exercise, but it will be an exercise of political choice, of belonging to democracy and to the values of democracy, of acceptance, of respect for people, of the protection of the rights to belong to religious confessions, to ethnic groups, to political convictions, to different sexual orientations. If we were all to vote for this measure together, that would mean that there was no need for it, that is, that it was useless, because we are all convinced of the respect of the other and the fact that the other who suffers and who makes a desperate representation of his suffering finds in us, all of us, the availability that is necessary to those who suffer. No, you don't, Mr. President. There are some who say: Suffering annoys me; go and suffer somewhere else, I don't want to see you. The pain for me is gruesome, I do not want to have in front of me the pain you represent; solve your problems from where you come from and, even if you are not able to solve those problems, keep your suffering at home. Then there are the others, those who have different, democratic, progressive, open convictions, who live in the report, who would like Italy and Europe to be a land of friendship and peace for the peoples; those who do not want the barbed wires, who know how to be in the civilization of globalization, where relations are imposing and important, now no longer confined within a defined area and space, and break through every kind of frontier, through the technologies, to which the report makes timely recourse. So you know this world and those who suffer know that in other parts of the world you can avoid suffering, that maybe there are different living conditions and that there are places where you can safely develop your personality, as a human being and as an individual, that you have the aspiration to a normal life, for yourself and for those you love. I therefore think that we are distinct, also in this Parliament, from our vision of the culture to be put on the ground, in relation to this and to other problems. It has come out bullyingly, not only in these days with the elections that have recently been held but for some time, a process whereby xenophobic movements are being strengthened, with deeply racist, anti-democratic and irrational veins, also from the point of view of the positive economic and social relationship. They are there, grow and rely on fears that should instead be eliminated, even proposals for a reflection of provision and overcoming, in the relationship between individual, society and community. Then there are those who oppose these visions. The political sadness, also of this country, is that those who think in democratic and progressive terms - that is, those who think of a future that does not bring Europe back exactly where it comes from, that is, from the devastating parenthesis of National Socialism and Fascism - divide themselves around the inequities, particular, specific and contingent issues and do not know how to find the unity, which instead serves to cope with those reactionary pressures, which come to be ever more consistent, not only in our country, but in the whole of Europe. I think that it is precisely by this measure that we must begin to understand whether a new cultural and political dimension can exist in Europe and Italy, which brings together all those who think that human dignity and the value of life are above all things. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u34	Mr President, I will try to stick to the text of the bill and to its purpose, trying to escape the temptations of important speeches from the point of view of value and philosophy. Trying to stay in this area, I will say that we are about to set up a day of memory, which is addressed, for what Article 2 tells us, mainly to the education of our young people and therefore to urge in the schools of Italy a moment of reflection and attention to the phenomena of immigration. We cannot fail to agree on this, but as long as this concerns not only the immigration of these days but all the immigration and emigration that has marked the history of our country and in particular the land from which I come. In fact, in this Parliament we are too used, by now, to legislate on the basis of transient and immediate emotions. If the history of Sicily were taught in the schools of the Sicilian nation as the history of the Sicilian people, each chapter would contain a history of immigration or emigration, but it is known that history is written by the winners and for this reason in our schools we do not have an adequate education in the history of our Sicily. I therefore believe that this Day in memory of the victims of immigration can only have meaning if, as is also stated in the introductory report to the draft law, we also remember our emigration which is immigration of Italians to other States. It is not only a matter of reciprocity, but of education that we must give to our young people. Many scholars have recently explored the Italian, southern and Sicilian migration phenomenon in particular, to and from the coasts of Africa. Our emigration to Tunisia has been freed from any suspicion of will of colonization, because that country has never been Italian and has seen thousands and thousands of citizens (farmers, workers, traders, small artisans and even entrepreneurs) go to that land to bring their anxiety of development, growth and integration with the inhabitants of that land. I therefore wonder why, if there are no reasons - yes those - demagogic and partial, this Day is limited to the memory of the victims of immigration, especially when it will affect the education of our young people, since it is established not a day of national celebration but one day addressed mainly to action in our schools. I wonder why ignore everything that represents the drama, as well as the positivity of immigration - because we always tend to emphasize the dramas, but we should also emphasize some positivity - and not include in the memory also the history of our emigration, which, as Senator Micheloni recalled, is also made of dramatic events, which are not only those that we already remember, like the disaster of Marcinelle or others, to which we have already dedicated a day of remembrance. I am referring to the emigration that started with the steamships, without knowing what could be the real destination of those who desperately tried to cross the ocean, or the emigration that stopped at Ellis Island. Moreover, we have also recently seen a rediscovery of values and dramas through important film productions on the history of our fellow citizens who emigrated in the past. Faced with the idea of fossilising the focus on a dramatic episode, of which the date is naturally exalted by establishing that that will be the day of memory, I wonder why the emigration of which I have spoken is not included, just as we are asking with the amendments that we have tabled and on the basis of whether or not we will consider the attitude to be taken in the final vote. Why not go to our schools and talk about our emigration, which has equally dramatic tones as those that today distinguish migration from Africa to Sicily and to Europe? That this is not just a Mediterranean fact. I have listened to important quotations on Mare nostrum, but why limit the speech to the Mediterranean? Emigration and immigration are epochal and historical facts that have characterized much of the social evolution of our populations and, I repeat, in particular of Sicily, from which I come, so, very often, we, with a smile I do not say sarcastic but certainly of circumstance, listen to certain speeches that speak of walls, that speak of obstacles, that speak of denials. We have a thousand-year history that has absolutely accustomed us to integration and, indeed, in this phase of our history as a Sicilian nation, we suffer from the marginality that the Italian context and the European context assign us as a frontier land, while we are a land of Mediterranean centrality. On the basis of this, I repeat, we ask that the text be supplemented by two very simple amendments that would be fundamental and that aim to ensure that in our schools we speak not only of immigration but also of emigration, in homage to the history of our country, because only this homage will make our young people and our society understand better the values that, through the day of memory, we want to affirm. I do not think I am saying things that are outside the context in which we are debating. I repeat: I want to stick, without going further, to the text of the bill, I say that we have the duty to teach in our schools the values of immigration and emigration that, taught together, lead to a true understanding of the meaning of integration and therefore of peaceful coexistence. In asking the rapporteur and the government to examine carefully the question of integrating the text with our amendments, I repeat that our Group will assess the attitude to be taken in the final explanation of vote on the basis of the outcome of the debate. And do not tell me that, since the House has approved it, we cannot amend it: we are not talking about urgency here. Among other things, the Day of Memory is scheduled on October 3, so there is all the time, possibly, for another passage to the House, if you want to start this year to celebrate this day. We do not make the usual speeches for which this House is never in a position to express its views and to be able to vote for itself differently from what happens or has happened in the other branch of Parliament, even if we are at third reading. It is an absolutely non-binding bill of public finances, nor urgent for our country, so I believe that we should tackle it with maximum serenity and that is why I ask for our proposals for integration to be approved. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u35	Senator Manconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today's debate has been an important one. I will not address the complex issues that the issue of migration involves, but I will confine myself, instead, to examining and addressing the issue that is being brought to our assessment today through this bill, on which I must immediately say some things, for how it was born and for its path of these years. The call for a draft law to establish the National Day of Memory for the Victims of Immigration comes from the mayor of Lampedusa, Giusi Nicolini, and from the Committee of 3 October, formed just a few days after the shipwreck of that date, which included and still includes among its members, among others, family and friends of the victims of that terrible shipwreck. I want to enter immediately into the substance of what appears to be the main one, but perhaps the only objection to this bill: the main one, but perhaps the only perplexity that it has aroused that it may be a mere symbolic act. I immediately say that a symbolic act is not necessarily superfluous. A symbolic act is not automatically useless, nor is it fatally destined to be harmful. Not at all. In this case, a symbolic act can have a very dense meaning and the reason is simple: the symbolic acts, or rather the symbols, the messages, the images, operate in a field, inhabit a space, which is the one where ideas are formed, where opinions are realized, where the common sense is built and where the shared mentality is formed. Thus, there symbols and symbolic acts can acquire a force, a power that then translates into conditioning the concrete acts of people, in determining collective orientations, in influencing the behaviors, gestures of individuals, groups and communities. There is, there can be in symbolic acts a force and a materiality that really can direct collective orientations. Therefore, a symbolic act can have this power and I believe that this symbolic act today is even more necessary precisely because, in the matter of immigration and asylum, we witness daily repetition, the intensification of symbolic acts, but symbolic acts of hostility, which produce mistrust, digging ditches, which stimulate the ethnic conflict. Well, from here comes the need to carry out other, different, positive symbolic acts. Here, the deep content of this initiative - I must say - has no intention of controversy; it has no will of opposition, it does not want in any way to accentuate a fact that is objective, that of the distrust on the part of some layers of the Italian population, in particular one of the most vulnerable, most exposed and weaker layers, towards foreigners. It has exactly the opposite intent: it has the intention, that is, to promote the meeting, to encourage the relationship, recognition, reciprocity and reconciliation. All this is certainly not easy; it is not easy in all European countries and in many democratic systems, and it is even less easy, in some ways, in our country for a reason that has already been recalled here, with different intents and accents, and even with different purposes - but that I think are all to be valorized - in the intervention of Senator Micheloni, as well as in the intervention of Senator D'Alì, who also seemed to go in the opposite direction. What is the fact that I think it is necessary to highlight in order to explain the peculiarity of an attitude of our national society towards immigration? I think that in our society a great removal has been carried out, and it is precisely the removal of those over 30 million Italians who, as Senators Micheloni and Uras recalled, from the Unity of Italy to today have left our country to look elsewhere, in other countries and on other continents, for an opportunity for work that was then an opportunity for life and for the future. Well, this reality has been as removed, and it is a reality made of pain, sacrifice, but also knowledge, experience and intelligence. It was certainly a troubled undertaking, that of those millions of Italians who crossed the world, but it was also a source of pride, because those millions of Italians found the ability not only to integrate, but also to contribute to the national wealth of the countries that hosted them. Of this extraordinary human story, which concerned our ancestors and grandparents, in Italy the memory has almost disappeared. This extraordinary human story has not been made history, has not been told, has not been made - pass me the term - epopea. And I have to use this term intentionally because immigration could have been one of those founding myths of our national identity that is of considerable importance in strengthening the social bond, in building identity and belonging. But this has not been done and that human affair has fallen into oblivion. Of the ship Sirio, about which Senator Micheloni spoke, that in 1906 it sank in front of the Spanish coasts with almost 300 Italians ended at the bottom of the sea and, more recently, of the tragedy of Marcinelle, cited by Senator D'Alì, that has seen hundreds of Italians die at the bottom of the Belgian mine, there is no memory. But there is not even cultural memory, there is no musical history, literature, nor cinematography of those events, because they were made, precisely, a removal operation. And I think that precisely this removal operation is one of the main causes of our inability - I am speaking of all of us - to recognize in the anxieties, hopes and suffering of foreigners who arrive in Italy the anxiety, hopes and suffering of our ancestors and grandparents. And behind it there is something that really needs to be analyzed, and it is the fact that a people like ours, who over the decades have reached some economic security, today endangered by the crisis and eroded by so many phenomena and by the growth of poverty, needed to forget that own migratory past because it recalls a poverty that you want to leave behind and of which, to some extent, you are ashamed. Here, the sense of a day of memory lies exactly here: in the ability to create a mutual possibility of recognition between tragedies that belong to the past, but of which we must preserve the memory, and tragedies that are within our present and that are certainly destined to last over time. And then, really, there is no rhetoric of solidarity, there is no emphasis of multiculturalism in this. There is a need to form a cultural fabric based on reciprocity, as according to Levinas, about whom Senator Romano spoke, and therefore capable of making other suffering recognize not as a pietistic fact, not as a compassionate act, but as the only real and real basis for political action. In fact, I cannot imagine where else a policy that is up to the times can find its foundation, except in the suffering of human beings, in their need for justice. Where else can we go to seek the foundation of our political action? Of course, Italy and Europe need intelligent and rational policies, starting first of all from a speech that has its own demography and economy, but all this cannot do without the awareness of what we have been and what other peoples are today. The day of memory can help us in this activity, certainly tiring, because cohabitation is not a gala lunch. Cohabitation is something that can be found painful, that can trigger conflicts and tensions, but it is the only alternative to ethnic conflict. And then, this coexistence, which is the result of much effort and, I fear, of many pains, is however the only intelligent and rational way and, therefore, political that, for me, can allow us to face phenomena of such historical and geographical scope with the right instrumentation. To all this, of course, the day of memory brings a modest contribution, but it is precisely what can help us to ensure that those we call too often, rhetorically, our young people, and then they are our children, do not forget how much pain the history of our country is made. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mazzoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u37	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u40	Mr Ruvolo (AL-A). Mr President, I would just like to point out to you that 75 senators have signed the request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into the work and activities of ANAS SpA. Even today, despite the signature of 75 senators, the procedure of the measure is firm and I do not understand the reasons for it. I repeat: I really don't understand them. After the repeated scandals, including that of the so-called black lady, what must be done to raise awareness of this House and the President of the Senate and initiate the examination procedure? Do bridges still have to collapse? Many have already collapsed: I think of the Verdura bridge on the highway 115 Trapani-Syracuse, collapsed in 2013, at the Petrulla bridge and the Himera viaduct on the A19 Palermo-Catania. Different bridges and spans have collapsed, and a concrete response to these stresses is not yet there. Remember the bridge of Scorciavacche, inaugurated on December 23 and collapsed on December 30, 2014? Everyone's memory is taken away. However, they gave the production prize and the incentives to build this bridge in a short time and after a week from the inauguration it collapsed. It's a scandal, it's a shame! [[Applause from Senator Council.]] And no one takes note of what is happening in this country. Mr President, EUR 19 million has been given to former directors-general and former presidents to test the great work of MOSE. I have already denounced these things in this House: it is really scandalous and the bodies in charge are still not active. What must happen more than this? What should we marvel at? It's all stuck and stuck, but why? I don't understand it, and that upsets me a lot. I am also very concerned about the new management, because we still do not understand what is planning and starting. What's out of the past? All I know is that they've always entered the usual known fields, the recycled ones. If you need to clean the indicated organs, why not start beating those that have been inside this system? Instead, they may be appreciated. If you are recycled into politics it is bad, but if you are recycled into high bureaucracy it is normal. Mr President, I am very concerned and I would ask you to report to the Government and, above all, to President Grasso, who can no longer do so. Activate normal procedures to respect the will of 75 senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u41	I will do my part and advise you to ask your Parent Company to make the same request at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u44	THE COURT (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak in response to the complaint made public today by the Guarantor of the rights of persons detained in the municipality of Bologna, who reported the case, in truth not unique in our country, since it concerns dozens of situations, of a woman locked in the Dozza district house with two children, respectively five and eighteen months. This is the long-standing problem, which our country cannot solve, of the presence inside the Italian prisons of children, who are in prison together with their mothers. This is a positive response to the desire not to separate the child from the mother, an intention which, despite the fact that this Parliament has already approved, five years ago, a measure aimed at preventing these children from being in prison, continues to hold children of a few months and a few years in prison facilities with their mother. Law No 62 of 2011 provided for the activation of facilities and institutions in attenuated custody for mothers held and the activation of a network of family homes in the national territory. Well, not only have new institutions not been activated in attenuated custody (at this moment we have two in Italy, one in Milan and one Venice), but the network of protected family houses has not been put into operation either. This network, whose activation has been entrusted, from the economic point of view and financial effort, to the local authorities, has a great difficulty to be activated, because an account is a normal family home, another thing is a protected family home that hosts mothers detained who have to serve a sentence (or who are waiting for judgment, as in the case of Bologna) with their children. A protected family home has a very high cost, which is why, in fact, local authorities are struggling to activate these facilities. Today the Guarantor of the rights of the prisoners of the municipality of Bologna has emphasized also that a wing of the female section of the prison of Bologna is being restructured, which should be used as a nest. Now, if there are resources to turn a part of prison into a nest, let's use them to activate family homes and use the resources provided by the law that came into force in 2014 to activate the Institutes in Mothers Attenuated custody (ICAM) to contribute to the structuring of a network of protected family homes! I have prepared a question, which I shall put to the attention of my colleagues, so that they may soon have an answer from the Ministry of Justice, but also from the Department of Regional Affairs, Self-Government and Sport, as local authorities are involved in the role of promoters and activators of family homes. I hope that we will soon be able to put in place interventions so that no child finds himself having to live that life that, for example, is living the eighteen-month-old child, who, according to the story of the Guarantor of the rights of prisoners, has already developed a series of stressful behaviors, typical of a child who cannot live freely, a great aggressiveness and hyperactivity. No child must remain within prison structures in our country and this is an objective that we must pursue through concrete acts and the destination of the necessary economic resources. Since today a great blackout has struck all our offices, I have not been able to distribute the text of the act of trade union inspection to my colleagues, but I invite you to sign this question tomorrow, which is certainly not the first to be presented in this legislature and with which the Government is urged to go in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u47	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, I would like to briefly tell a story of ordinary madness, in which bureaucracy wins over every reasonableness. This is a strange case that is taking place in Abruzzo. This is the strange case of Nelda Zazzara, a public - school employee who paid contributions for thirty - nine years. For about a year she has been very ill and has made, in the right time, the first pension application for "saved" workers (March 3, 2014). The application is accepted, but the ranking expires. The second safeguard application was accepted on 4 December 2014 (Law 147 of 2014), but nothing happened. According to Article 13 of Law No 274 of 1991 it obtains the recognition of total and permanent disability, defined on 16 September 2015, but the Provveditorato alle studi opposes and asks, through Article 2 of Law No 335 of 1995, for the determination of physical fitness, which is defined with a result of non-suitability for six months, until 15 June 2016. At this moment two completely different languages are spoken; two different laws are used; and it is impossible or, at least, every attempt has been vain, to have the offices dialogue. Thus, on the one hand there is the recognition of total and permanent incapacity, with Law No 274 of 1991, and on the other hand the non-suitability, however temporary, with Law No 335 of 1995. A repentance appears to occur when the INPS, in November 2015, announces the acceptance of the pension application from 1 January 2016. But subsequently, by letter dated 19 February 2016, the INPS withdrew the application for a pension and initiated the procedures for the reintegration of Nelda, who in the meantime, in order to comply with the INPS conditions, had resigned from work. All this said, Mrs Nelda, despite the recognition of total and permanent incapacity and about thirty-nine years of contributions, is unable to retire, but cannot even return to work, because they asked her to resign. The case is absurd and resonates with interpretive and bureaucratic madness. With a question, I would ask Minister Poletti to intervene on the relevant offices and on the INPS, so that it may be restored, with balance and sense of justice, meaning to this matter, recalling the offices that have been wrong, certainly the accounting of the Provveditorato, or what other bodies have mistakenly expressed themselves, and finding the most rapid, just and even less costly solution for the State. [[Applause from Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u48	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-592.ana.u49	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 16 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.48 p.m.
