ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on the state of the dispute over regional legislation and measures to support the family and the birth rate, to which the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, Mr Costa, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions on the state of litigation on regional legislation. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u6	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, following the entry into force of the new Title V of the Constitution, following the 2001 reform, there has been a considerable increase in the litigation between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. After a first attempt to reduce this growing litigation in the 2006-2008 legislature, the appeals have increased again in the last legislative years. I would like to know from the Minister the quantitative data on the appeals made by the Berlusconi and Monti Governments in the 16th legislature and by the Led and Renzi Governments in the 17th legislature. I would also like to know the data relating to the actions brought by the Regions under special statute and the Autonomous Provinces in the aforementioned legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u9	ORRU' (PD). Mr President, Minister, with reference to the Government's power to challenge regional laws before the Constitutional Court, it is asked to know the current state of the dispute, in particular what the reasons and matters of legislation of greatest conflict have been.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u12	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, the 2001 reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution led to the emergence of a huge constitutional dispute between the State and the Regions. This was distributed between actions brought by the State against the Regions, but also presented by the Regions against the laws of the State. It must be said at once that that reform of the Constitution was carried out autonomously by the center-left, on the initiative of the then President of the Council, Massimo D'Alema, and, after the iter in Parliament characterized also by regulatory forcings, on 7 October 2001 the popular referendum was approved confirmation, although with the vote of 34.4% of the Italians. We seem to retrace the current path of the Boschi reform, which, going in the opposite direction to that of 2001, seeks however to take away powers from the Regions in order to reassign them to the State. It has been enforced by regulations and has been approved by a majority, without the wider sharing that would require a constitutional law and, therefore, will be submitted to a referendum. I would therefore ask you, Minister, if you do not believe that the main road to the reduction of litigation lies in consistent state legislation implementing constitutional rules, rather than in a willing attempt to permanently separate the criteria for the allocation of competences by subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u15	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, Minister, as the President of the Council's report on constitutional jurisprudence, 2015 shows, the main judgments were 129: 55 proposed by the State, 51 by the Regions and 23 by the Autonomous Provinces. The pronunciations mainly concerned the disciplines of the State, compared with the 39 which concerned regional laws. The Court continues to point out the preponderance of questions raised with regard to the constitutional system of the division of legislative powers, especially for matters of concurrent legislation (and among them, the coordination of public finances, the The proposed complaints concerning the administrative functions of the local authorities and, above all, their financial autonomy and, again, the principle of loyal cooperation between State bodies are also very significant. It is noted the appeal by four ordinary Regions of numerous provisions (even more than a third) of the only article of the law of reform of the territorial authorities issued in 2014 (the so-called Delrio law). It is clear, therefore, that there is still an opportunist way of law-making which is opportunist, confusing, muddled and not in conformity with the current constitutional rules, despite the absolute dominus of the legislative procedure being the Government's decision of urgency. What intentions does the Government wish to assume to support an ordinary parliamentary legislative process aimed at annihilating the ongoing legal dispute between the State and the Regions?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u18	ANITORI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, I would like to ask you what activity, in accordance with the principle of loyal cooperation, is being carried out to improve the quality of regional legislation?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u21	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, Minister, last February, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously gave the rapporteur the mandate to report favourably to the House with a view to the adoption of the new unified text of draft laws no. 951 and 1082 (the latter at my first signature), bearing... distacco of the municipality of Sappada from the Veneto region and its aggregation to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region. The draft law on the agenda has inexplicably disappeared from the agenda at the sitting on 16 March, even before the beginning of the debate. Despite having asked for re-alendarization, to date nothing is given to know. It is therefore clear that the Government will oppose the definition of the matter. In fact, so far there have never been any valid reasons to support this behaviour for a measure that could be approved even in the Commission's deliberations. In fact, in 2007 the decision of the City Council of Sappada in which the request for referendum was formulated, held in 2008, the result of which was plebiscitary, without any doubt exceeding the double quorum. The result confirms the geographical, historical, cultural and socio-economic motivations, at the basis of a strongly desired choice. We respect the popular will, which should be respected precisely in the spirit of our Constitutional Charter and it is a responsibility of the elected Chambers to take these decisions, so that the citizens of Sappada, having respected Article 132, second paragraph of the Constitution, do not see their trust in the institutions cracked, without having answers. I ask, indeed, at this point, in view of what has happened, that today the Government should provide me and the sappadini with the reasons that prevent the process of an expected measure and the political reasons that lie behind a choice of the Government so incomprehensible and obscure. I also strongly ask that the Government review the decision, lead to recalendarizzare the provision, ratifying immediately the will of self-determination expressed in compliance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u24	SCAVONE (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, Minister, next Sunday, on 15 May, it is the seventieth anniversary of the Statute of the Sicilian Region; yet its implementation remains complicated and certainly the condition of this land remains complicated. In recent years the Sicilian Region, in particular, has been affected by a serious dispute against the State, mainly because of the fruitless functioning of the Joint Commission for the implementation of the Statute, which was provided for in Article 43 of the same. Just one example: over the last three years, only one implementation rule has been launched by the Joint Commission and throughout 2016 the Joint Commission has never met. Not to mention the agreement, to which the current president Crocetta has been forced to subjugate; I refer to the agreement of 2014, for which Sicily has renounced a dispute of about 7 billion euros in order to settle for 500 million euros in order to be able, in that year, moreover with the unblocking Italy, to close its budget. This practice of the Government and this block of the Joint Commission have been strongly stigmatized several times by the Constitutional Court, in the end precisely with the judgment n. 238 of 2015. Having said all this, I ask you whether the Government intends for the future to refrain from circumventing the provisions of the Statute that have greatly mortified that Region and that population and whether it intends to relaunch the activity of the Joint Commission through formal and precise acts, avoiding, precisely, the overtaking of the statutory forecast which expressly requires that the rules be implemented through the evaluation of the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u27	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, the reform of Title V of the Constitution was quickly approved in 2001 by the then centre-left majority, it is said with the aim of gaining the consent of the electorate of the League, without an adequate analysis of its implications. With the amendment of Title V of the Constitution a season of constitutional reforms has opened. The application of the new Title V has, however, created problems of interpretation, increasing the litigation between the State and the Regions with numerous appeals to the Constitutional Court. The constitutional propaganda reform - approved now by this Government - erases all the federalist process that has affected our country in the last twenty years, redesigning the state system, focusing all powers and weakening the territories of its own legislative initiative. Our ideal reform aims to limit the exclusive legislative power of the State to the only matters necessary to protect and guarantee the homogeneous application of the fundamental functions of the national state, granting the regions legislative autonomy on all other matters. Only administrations closest to citizens can fully understand the specific needs and needs of the population and address resources rationally. Only this solution allows real savings on public expenditure. This the League has proposed it in the devolution, in which a true fiscal federalism was expected based on a virtuous model of reference of needs and costs applied throughout the national territory, without forgetting the specificities of each Region. Unfortunately, we know how things went. We would therefore like to know what measures the Government intends to take to speed up the procedures to give concreteness to the requests for greater autonomy made by the Lombardy and Veneto regions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u30	Tarquinio (CoR). Minister, there has been concurrent legislation since 2001. We have 1,500 appeals pending between regions and state, a huge one: they have filed one every three days. We must intervene as soon as possible. These same problems exist on land-use planning, public finance, energy and infrastructure. Not to mention, then, what happens in the Regions, even among members of the same party: there are real wars between Presidents of the Region and President of the Council. These are unbearable things. We must respect the local communities: there are infrastructures and projects for billions and billions, of which you know. There are projects blocked for EUR 3.2 billion and we have a Community infringement procedure on waste water. All this is also the responsibility of the Municipalities and of the Regions themselves, but also of the inefficiency of the Governments in general (I do not speak of this Government). That's the real thing. How do you intend to move the government? How does the Minister intend to deal with these difficulties, to clarify them and overcome them by trying to reach agreements to avoid exasperated localisms but also excessive interference and impositions of the national government, in a word, to be virtuous and responsible for these problems? We play a decisive and important game from here to 2020. If we lose it, if we don't seriously compare ourselves, I don't know what we can talk about: we will be a country almost from the Third World. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Costa.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u31	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for the comments that have emerged from this debate because they allow me to go into detail also with regard to the numerical evolution of appeals to the Constitutional Court. The numerical evolution over the years shows what is a loyal collaboration, as part of a path initiated by the Department of Regional Affairs. First of all, I provide some important numbers, starting with the percentages of appeals. In 2008, against 597 regional laws submitted, there was 7.54% of appeals, equivalent to 45 acts. It then increased to 8 percent in 2009, 10 percent in 2010, 17 percent in 2011, 18 percent in 2012, 9 percent in 2013, 7 percent in 2014, 10 percent in 2015 and 5 percent in 2016. These numbers need to be explained, of course. They have a reason that comes from the very profitable comparison that has been generated over time, from the experience of offices and from the awareness, by local authorities, that the tables of comparison at the Department of Regional Affairs were profitable tables. It is a path which has also led to a relationship of trust between the Council of Ministers, the Department of Regional Affairs and Local Authorities, which in many circumstances resulted in the transposition of commitments, mere commitments to the modification of regulations that were not considered consistent; these commitments were then maintained. This has led to a fruitful relationship of collaboration. If in the year 2016 we have reached the least number of grips it is due to this path. The number of acts that were originally likely to cause perplexity has probably remained unchanged, but the fruitful path that has been generated has been modified. An important form of negotiation, a form of cooperation aimed at preventing conflicts as much as possible, was the introduction of instruments for conciliation between the State, Regions and Autonomous Provinces, with particular regard to avoiding a burdening of the role of the Constitutional Court. Senator Anitori asked me this question, which is certainly an aspect of method that needs to be addressed. Senator Tarquinio touched on the same theme, that of reducing contrasts, on the basis of a fundamental principle of collaboration. In the mediation activity carried out from 1 January 2014 until today, the Department has simplified and speeded up contacts between central administrators and local authorities, whose technical times have not allowed to reach shared solutions within the 60-day deadline. Let us not forget, in fact, that there is a deadline that must be respected. We have tried to speed up procedures, very often reaching agreements, solutions between state administrations, which clearly proposed appeals for certain reasons, and the regions, which committed themselves and commit themselves to changing their regulations, to arrive at solutions compatible with the Constitutional Charter. In the report of the President of the Constitutional Court on the annual jurisprudence of the Court in 2015 (cited by Senator Morra), presented on 11 April 2016, the precautionary appeal appears dysfunctional - as it has been said - as the whole of the operations carried out by the Court following the act of promotion leads to an undoubted expenditure of resources. Appealing and then turning back on the appeal, as a result of an investigative activity, is clearly a cost of resources by the Constitutional Court. We tried to work to anticipate this course of inquiry. It is also clear that in order to achieve this, sometimes the regulatory change cannot come within the 60-day period. The commitment can come and then the subsequent verification is necessary that this commitment is followed by formal acts and by the transformation into law. I have just recently signed a series of letters to the Presidents of the Regions, recognizing in some respects the maintenance of commitments, therefore of their follow-up, and in some cases recalling those commitments that were still to be converted into law, therefore always moving in a path of collaboration. We come to other significant numerical data, which have been requested by both Senator Zeller and Senator Orrù. It is noted that over the years there has been an increase in regional and provincial laws which have been evaluated by the Council of Ministers. If from 2000 to 2011 the average had not exceeded 600 annual laws, 702 regional laws were examined during 2012, 745 in 2013 and 664 and 665 in 2014 and 2015 respectively. In the state, in the period between January and May 2016, the threshold of 272 laws examined was reached. Responding also to what Senator Morra said, while in the period 2011-2012 there was an increase in the laws challenged compared to the total of the laws examined, both in absolute terms (with a change from 100 to 127), and in percentage (from 17.33 percent to 18.09 percent), the following years were characterized by an evident deflation of the constitutional litigation. I have previously pointed out this figure in percentage terms. I think this is a often neglected and hidden aspect of the work that is being done, but it is a very significant work, in which all administrations try to play a collaborative role, which is also of mutual trust, which has consolidated over time and which I have no doubts can still gradually improve. There are other issues that have been touched on by the interrogators, such as that addressed by Senator Bellot, about the referendum held in 2008 that proposed and endorsed the transfer of the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region to Friuli-Venezia Giulia. I have great respect for the outcome of this referendum and when I hear the senator saying that there is the opposition of the government, I must say that I do not think that this statement corresponds to the positions of the government on this issue; other is to point out that the timing of the relevant measure is the responsibility of the parliamentary bodies in this Parliament, that is to say the Conference of the Leaders. It is also obvious that this act of inspection union should probably be addressed to the Ministry of the Interior, which is the competent Ministry on the subject and which has in any case prepared the legislative initiative following the referendum. With regard to Senator Scavone's questions, the questions raised about the renunciation of litigation and the disbursements of resources in favor of the Sicilian Region concern more specifically behaviors proper to the Government in its intercourse with the Regions. Similar agreements have been concluded with other special self-governments and have allowed the provision of certain resources by the State to all regions. I can confirm that I have great respect and great attention to the role of the Joint Commission, which will remain central to the exercise of its statutory powers; indeed, if a role of propulsion and attention can be useful, it will certainly be my attention to do so. Senator Pelino asked questions about the elimination of regulatory uncertainty. I think that the constitutional reform, which has been approved and which will be submitted to referendums, will certainly have an effect in this direction, contributing to a simpler framework, even if it is understood that, in these years of troubled application, the Constitutional Court has highlighted. So, I am convinced that there will be a contribution to the deflation of the load. Still only one answer to Senator Centinario: Article 116 of the Constitution is a fundamental reference point. We have received a request from the Veneto Region for the start of a discussion and negotiation. It is our intention to confront and initiate it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u34	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, we are very pleased with Mr Costa's reply, because it shows that, with a continuous confrontation between the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces and the Government, we are able to find shared solutions that have an important effect on the dispute pending before the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u37	ORRU' (PD). Minister, I am pleased with the answer. However, you confirmed the detailed numbers that were already known to me. First of all, the method of this Government is absolutely welcome, implying that these disputes are not the subject of appeals by the State or the Regions that have recourse to the Constitutional Court pursuant to Article 117 of the Constitution with regard to the specific matters assigned to the exclusive competence of the State, but of course with regard to matters of concurrent legislation. This comforts me even more, because it makes me understand how important the reform that we approved on 12 April, strongly desired by this majority and by this Government, because it provides for specific powers to the State and the Regions, because for example it should not and should not be allowed to matters such as infrastructure and environment, which are the specific competence of the Regions, not to have a precise demarcation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u40	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, we are convinced that the new rewriting of Title V of the Constitution, with the Renzi Government's bill, will not only not lead to a reduction in the intervention of the Constitutional Court, but also to an enlargement of the Constitutional Court. The exclusive competence of the State has been defined only for the general and common dispositions, so, still lacking of the real instruments of collaboration between the State and the Regions, a new dispute of a new nature between the Regions and the State would arise. We therefore hope that the October referendum will win the no-show, which, in addition to the rejection of the Renzi-Boschi reform, will lead the next Parliament to correct those errors of the 2001 reform that led to the emergence of these disputes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u43	MORRA (M5S). Mr Minister, I do not think that there has been an answer to what I have asked, because there has been no talk of intent, apart from a general desire to reaffirm a principle of cooperation between the powers and bodies of the State. You then pointed out that the litigation, in the end, has been in decisive mitigation, but consider that 5%, indicated for 2016, considering that the first five months of the same year have not yet been concluded, is sufficient measure, as if it is normal to accept a dispute to the extent of 12-13 percent per year, evidently places us on fields decidedly distant from each other. I would like to repeat, on the subject of the future referendum, the hope that it will be clear to everyone in which direction to go. We must have a legislative quality consistent with clear, clear principles of separation of competences. It is true that something has been done at the formal level, but we expect an increase in conflicts because, above all, for example... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u44	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u47	ANITORI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, I am pleased with your reply. In addition, the data you have reported shows a trend that goes towards the lowering of litigation, testifying that the tool works. Thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u50	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Minister, thank you for your reply, but - as you can imagine - I am not satisfied at all. In our opinion, there is a clear violation of a right: an answer is due to those who have constitutionally followed an iter in all and for all, including following the favourable responses of the Regions themselves. I therefore believe that answers must be given absolutely, in addition to pindaric flights or refunds between the various ministries. For my part, and for those who support this right with me, I believe that we will go further and appeal to the European Court of Human Rights because at this point we can say that the rights of a population are harmed. With regard to the Capigroup's speech, he knows very well that there has been a joint request; if then there is a will of majority and government that determines the choices, I do not think it is logical then to weaken those who are clear will not to face the problem. You can answer with a yes or a no, but you have to answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u53	SCAVONE (AL-A (MpA)). Minister, thank you for your willingness to make a formal request to the Joint Commission. I will be satisfied when we manage - I hope at some point - to avoid this circumventing of the statutory forecasts, which so far, in terms of many financial aspects, has taken place, not on the institutional table but on other tables.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u56	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, I am pleased with your reply. The hope is that this open table with the Veneto Region can lead to greater autonomy and greater power on the part of the same Region, knowing very well that it will only be temporary seen and considered that - alas - if the referendum that we have proposed does not pass, there will be a lesser power of the Regions. The hope is that this referendum, on the one hand, will cause this constitutional reform to lapse, and on the other hand, it will send you home.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u59	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr Minister, I sincerely do not feel satisfied or dissatisfied, because I realize that you have recently been in this position, but, unlike many others, you know better than I that the game is decisive compared to the problems, the disputes we have and the funds at our disposal: it goes beyond all that has been said here; in addition to the problems of the individual regions If the government - and you for the competence it has as Minister of the Regions - does not play this game in terms of seriousness and determination, without looking at the parties (because the parties appear continuously, and it is absurd), the game is black for the country because the resources we have are those; we have no others. If we do not solve this problem and tackle it properly, beyond everything, I do not know what we should say. When I talked about the Third World, that's what I meant. It is enough to see everything about infringements in relation to waste water: is it also the fault of the regions? And who denies it. We have to see what we have to do, and in this sense I will announce that I will be presenting other questions in five to six months' time, with the hope that I will be able to come here and lie completely.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u60	Let us now turn to the questions on measures to support the family and the birth rate, to which Minister Costa will reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u63	MATTESINI (PD). Minister, support for families and births are closely linked issues. Italy is today in Europe the country with the lowest birth rate and this - I believe - also in the face of the cuts that in the last twenty years all the governments of center-right have made on social policies, school and childcare services, weakening - until they disappear - the policies for the family. The Renzi Government, on the other hand, has reversed this attitude and made significant choices, starting from the policies of reconciliation between working life and family life, whose absence has all too often forced women and couples to choose between maternity and work. I quote, for example, the enhancement of motherhood, including with regard to access to and maintenance of work, and the cancellation of blank resignations. Equally important is the extension of paid maternity also to self-employed women, as well as the extension of parental leave with the relative increase of children in the age of three to eight, passing to the voucher for baby sitters up to 600 euros per month and the maintenance of the baby bonus. Equally important are the substantial funding for the opening of new nests and the recognition of the nest as a right and no longer as an individual demand service. Equally important are the economic support from support for young couples in the purchase of the first house and its furnishings. Equally important is the restoration of the Social Policy Fund, from zero euros to current 1.5 billion under the 2016 Stability Act. The fund against poverty, dedicated to families with dependent children, is essential. I finish - but I could still give many examples - with the inclusion in the essential levels of assistance of assisted fertilization, because there are still too many couples today who want children, but who cannot because they are sterile. Despite the important governmental choices, great differences remain between the Region and the Region, whose choices, together with those of the local authorities, also lead to great inequalities in the policies in support of the family and the birth. I am therefore asking what initiatives she intends to take to promote the further integration of important ministerial choices, and whether she does not consider it useful to promote, through the State-Regions Conference, a national plan that supports, enhances and brings back to unity the national, regional and municipal policies in place, in order to overcome the serious inequalities between territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u66	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, Italy is the European country with the lowest birth rate; the birth rate is such as to cover only half the number of deaths in our country. In other words, either our population is destined to decrease strongly or, as some theorize, and as in any case it is happening, it is about replacing Italians with people who come from outside in the ways we well know. This is not due to the laziness of Italians or bad luck, but to the fact that Italy has one of the worst family taxation regimes in the world or perhaps, according to some studies, the worst. A family with a child receives a deduction, provided that it is on a low income (otherwise it does not receive that) that does not even repay the greater VAT that is paid for the needs of this child. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what concretely the Government intends to do, since in the first two years, now almost two and a half years of activity, the family has achieved the results I have described, as well as pushing for all those laws that tend to disintegrate the family and make divorce easier than the change of telephone operator.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u69	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, Minister, following the judgments of the Council of State on 29 February 2016, rather than putting in place an immediate emergency decree to eliminate disability benefits from the calculation of the ISEE, the Government has produced an amendment which, in the view of the 5 Star Movement, is a buffer and inadequate intervention, which does not fully respect the dictates of the judgment, not aimed at an organic reform of the indicator and detrimental to certain categories of disabled people. There are three main nodes related to the new configuration of the ISEE. In terms of calculation of the ISR component of the ISEE, the previous duty-free system is eliminated by this amendment and a fixed calculation system based on an increase of 0.5 to the ISEE equivalence scale is inserted. This means that families with higher incomes will be encouraged at the expense of low-income households, which, on the other hand, had to be given greater protection. So the amendment does not restore the previous legislation and is a boomerang not only for families with lower incomes, but also for people with severe or non-self-sufficient disabilities. Another key issue is the reimbursement for households which have been prevented from making use of the ISEE, which has been declared unlawful by the judgments. The last node is the possible consequences of the provision of services with this new indicator and with the forecast of coverages not adequate to cover the additional costs for institutions. The same administrations to meet the new expenses will modulate the thresholds with a possible increase of the requirements of access, so much so that within paragraph 3 you have inserted an indication of the type: in compliance with the requirements of the budgets of the institutions. This will result in unequal treatment between the citizens of the various municipalities and regions. There is also talk of support for the family. We have put forward a number of proposals, including citizenship income and the poverty bill, which will certainly not be able to meet the needs. I ask what the government and the minister are going to do about these issues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Morra, the footage is already secured by the Senate and broadcast by RAI. There is no need for further action.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u72	ANITORI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I put a dry question to the Minister to whom I ask how the Government intends to work to refinance the Social and Educational Services Fund.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u75	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, Minister, in recent years there has been an uncontrolled proliferation of slot machines and gamblers, with a diseconomy and social discomfort beyond the level of tolerance. The social costs fall not only on the health of the players themselves, but on the whole family of these. The effects that this addiction produces are known: ludopathy is a real disease and not a social phenomenon, which can lead to financial spills, to the impairment of social relations, to the destruction of one's own family habitat, to divorce, to the loss of work, to the development of addiction to drugs or alcohol, until suicide. Despite the start of a campaign of mobilization on a national scale and the continuous denunciation of the disastrous consequences of such a plague, the press learns how the Agency of Customs and Monopolies has issued an interpretative circular with which, in essence, the number of slot machines in Italy is increased. Despite the provisions of the 2016 Stability Act, i.e. the reduction of these machines, in the order of 30 percent in four years, in fact the appliances increased by 10 percent in four months, i.e. by 40,000 units, from 378,000 to 418,000. Specifically, the Stability Act has set a ceiling anchored to the number of slots existing at 31 July 2015 (378,000), beyond which the issuance of new authorisations is precluded; however, under the Agency's aforementioned last circular, the roof now refers to the machines operating at 31 December 2015. It is specified, in fact, that this number is pairs to 418.10 units in how much it includes both the apparatuses in exercise and those in warehouse on the basis of the lists supplied from the dealers. The circular adds that the reduction will start from 1 January 2017, but meanwhile the expired concessions will not be cancelled. In short, in 2016 the 418,000 existing machines will remain in place. I ask the Minister how he intends, within the limits of his powers, to address the problem of gambling, socially widespread and practiced by means of machines, in terms of the protection of the family and what are the good practices in order to preserve the health and the economy of families, especially in the light of the circular of the Customs Agency and the monopolies mentioned above.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u78	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, the Government has already supported, through the publication of two specific notices, the national testing of the standard family audit. It is a business management tool that allows the company to put the theme of family reconciliation and work at the heart of business policies. At national level, almost 200 organisations have achieved this corporate family certification which highlights the corporate strategy for reconciling family and work. Of these companies about 50 percent affects the territory of the Autonomous Province of Trento, while the remaining 50 percent is distributed on all other Italian regions. Taken note of the positive benefits that this process generates for the company in terms of company flexibility, motivation of employees, reduction of overtime and reduction of permits for children's illness and still noted that this type of policies allows to support women's employment and, therefore, the birth rate, as well as to develop a modern system of corporate welfare, the Minister is required, given the undoubted benefits that it generates and the sensitivity demonstrated in this field by the Government and the Minister himself, if he intends to proceed in the process of national dissemination of the standard family audit, already started favorably in the last three years and how he intends to involve the Regions and with what financing. I think it's really an important policy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u81	Mr Barani (AL-A (MpA)). Minister, I'll give you some ISTAT numbers. More than one in four Italians is at risk of poverty, he is poor, in the sense that he blames the lack of adequate economic resources that lead to limited access to social areas, such as education, health care, work, housing, technology, political life and even sex life. It is the large families who are the most vulnerable and poor. Compared to 2013, the level of poverty for single parents has risen from 41.7 percent to 38.3 percent; for single elders, 38 percent to 32.2 percent; for couples with one child only the level of poverty drops from 24.3 percent to 21.7 percent; instead, for families with three or more children, the figure is growing exponentially, from 39.8 percent to 43.7 percent. The numbers are dramatic, so much so that people are forced to turn to charitable organizations for a free meal or a food package, including separated workers with children entrusted to mothers, who are the new poor. The global crisis is therefore leading families to have fewer children. The question is what does the government intend to do to try to support these larger families, especially to encourage families to have children and not to limit them on income.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u84	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Minister, of the National Plan for the Family, adopted at the time by the Berlusconi Government, has lost all traces. Nothing has been carried forward of those themes so detailed. The Department of the Family has been totally dismantled and the officials have been dispersed in several offices. The Committee on International Adoptions saw a dramatic half-life of the number of adopted children and no talk with welcoming families. Fortunately, after two years of totally illegitimate management, it seems that a new manager has been appointed. But alas, the law provided that he was the Minister for the Family and instead, even if we do not understand why, at the top of the commission, another Minister was placed, with delegation to equal opportunities: it is Maria Elena Boschi who, notoriously, is in favour of adoptions for gay couples, therefore totally outside the context of international adoptions. The drug department has been totally dismantled. All programs of prevention, education and training in school and for parents and rescue and help have disappeared from radar. And since yesterday it is imposed on us by the government, with the vote of confidence, without the House or the Senate being able to vote an amendment, the law on civil unions. At this point there is really to be wondered which is the subject that according to the Government today is the target of the measures in support of the family. What is the subject of these policies? Families, gay couples? Because reversibility also goes to gay couples, subtracting resources from couples with children. And one wonders what commitment the Government takes to give every child the right to be born from a father and a mother, the right to know the identity of the people from whom he was born and to grow up even with a father and a mother.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u87	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, the combined provisions of Articles 29 (which, I recall, provide that the family is a natural society based on marriage), 30 and 31 of the Constitution unequivocally state the preferential regime of the family as a fundamental nucleus of society. According to the latest ISTAT report, which spread the demographic indices, births in Italy continue to decline: in 2015 there were 488,000. The average number of children per woman is 1.35 in 2015 and this trend is confirmed. Parents' ability to invest in the future of their children depends on many factors, including their occupational status, health, the level of education achieved and support in the care tasks that the community offers them. The possibility of having skills and resources, not only economic, is essential, especially in the first years of the child's life, when the educational and relational offer is decisive in order to bring out the potential. Denatality in Europe is now an emergency. By 2025, the first European countries - Italy, Spain, Germany and Greece - could experience demographic implosion, i.e. the actual decrease in the population. This will not be resolved by the law you passed yesterday. It is necessary to deal systematically with the first and most important need, represented by having a family, that is to say, to exist. The main objective must be to encourage the birth through a series of instruments that intervene in the most delicate age group of the child, i.e. until the third year of age. This age group is sensitive in terms of education and the demand for attention and care, as well as because of the greater difficulty of reconciling family and working needs. It is necessary to give full implementation to Article 31 of the Constitution, which states that "The Republic shall facilitate with economic measures and other provisions the formation of the family and the performance of the related tasks (...)" At this point, we would like to know what policies the government intends to adopt to support the family economically and to combat the scourge of birth. Don't answer me by reminding me of the law you passed yesterday.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u90	Tarquinio (CoR). Minister, the problem for young people who decide to marry today is whether they can afford to have a child. We must respond to this need and to the problem of low birth rates. It is necessary to create the conditions for couples to be able to decide in full serenity to have a child, considering that, on the basis of calculations made up until 2011, maintaining a child up to the age of eighteen costs 170,000 euros. Understand that low-income households cannot To afford it. The paradox of our country is that it seems that childcare services have even deteriorated compared to twenty-five years ago. Unbelievable paradoxes like this must be dealt with with with responsibilities spread over the entire national territory, from local authorities, to the Regions, to the same national government. The question I want to ask you, Minister, is therefore the following. Given that yesterday he announced in the transmission "Porta a Porta" that in the next law of stability will finally respond to the needs of the families and considering that Italy is the country that allocates to this sector the lower share of GDP compared to the European average (which is 2.1% not to mention Denmark that reaches 3.7%), what are we going to do? Will you finally decide to end it with the demagogic fairy tales of baby bonuses, which solve nothing? We must not give money, but introduce VAT exemptions and reduce all expenditure on education and sport, as well as health costs not covered by the health service. I repeat, we must not give money, but put families in a position to pay less services. I am thinking of reducing VAT and deduction for the purposes of IRPEF: we are not giving money, but the income of households will increase on the basis of deductions of this type. This courage and this strength must be there, otherwise what do we say, what do we think, where do we go? The Italian population will continue to decline and will increase the non-Italian population: this is the real figure. Beyond the unwillingness - often - of some couples to have children, we do everything to discourage them. I repeat, this is the real fact. Obviously the deductions should not be recognized to those who earn 70,000, 100,000 or 200,000 euros per year. That's the real thing. I hope that in the next law of stability, which we will follow together (I will follow it as far as I can, as an opposition), it will succeed in giving these answers. I hope - indeed, I am sure - that you, Minister, will undertake to ensure that, once and for all, there is a clear answer. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Costa.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for this opportunity and for the arguments and considerations that have been made. I do so in a non-formal way, because a debate had already been held in the Chamber of Deputies, with the presentation of motions on the family, during which many significant measures have emerged which, over the years, have been taken precisely to achieve the objectives and objectives that have been highlighted and declined today. Let us ask ourselves why, despite all these measures, the objective has not been achieved. Let us ask ourselves why in our order these measures are rather fragmentary, jagged, disorderly and disorganic. I make a reflection as a Member of Parliament, also making a self-criticism because in every law of stability we have tried to make a contribution in constructive terms, but it has never been organic and consistent with all the rest of the way, even before. The measures must therefore be concrete. Senator Tarquinio said that we should not give resources, but avoid families spending. It is a matter of merit, but also of fundamental method: to try to tidy up ideas on these aspects and on these measures. The DEF has an indication of method that I have allowed myself to move forward; I am glad that there is and I am convinced that it will be transformed into a regulatory measure, i.e. the identification of an order for all family measures. I would call it the unique text of the family, which means not only a classification of all measures in a single document, but also a simplification of them, a favor for access (as it is also difficult to be able to orientate in so many of these provisions). In short, it also means recognizing dignity to the family: the State recognizes measures towards the family with a specific text. The reference point, the legal classification is not indifferent to the attention that the State has to a topic, so this is an aspect of method that I think is very significant. I come from the area of justice, which I had previously dealt with, and when we make a single text in that area too, it means that we want to give a strong dignity, that there is a topicality, an organic attention. In addition to organicity, however, it is necessary to give concreteness, so let's move on to the measures. All the interrogators have focused on the subject of Christmas, which is the real problem that afflicts our country. This is indicated by the statistics, but the parliamentary debate, the debate among citizens, the problems of citizens make us perceive it beyond any statistical number. The fact that, as Senator Malan pointed out, the fertility rate is getting closer to the number 1 rather than the number 2 is worrying, as it indicates a half-life of the generations. Let us also think of the average age of mothers, which is increasing, of Senator Barani's concerns about poverty indices, which today are directly proportional to the number of children. Today, therefore, an aggressive policy is needed precisely to support families with children and even those with a child, waiting for the problem and the prospect of so many young couples is also aimed at bringing forth and raising a child. If we go to analyze the average costs of educating a child up to the age of age, we see that they are very heavy and that normally 35-40 percent of the household spending is oriented to the education and maintenance of the child. Particular attention is needed, but it must be said that different acts have been put in place; I said that they are fragmentary and perhaps for this reason there is no ability to focus. The theme of reconciliation between working life and children's education was highlighted by Senators Centinario and Tarquinio. Law No 228 of 2012 introduced the possibility to take parental leave also on an hourly basis, requiring collective bargaining the application modalities, depending on the needs of the sector. The jobs act, with the measures to reconcile the needs of life, care and work, has introduced significant changes aimed at making the use of parental leave more flexible, even in the public service, increasing the period in which they can be used. The elevation, introduced by Legislative Decree No. 80 of 2015, of the age of the child, from eight to twelve years, for the purpose of taking parental leave is also an instrument of greater flexibility for parents. There are many other measures that are clearly aimed at flexibility and reconciliation between working life and the education of children, because there are so many mothers who lose their jobs in the first two years of the child's life. These are significant and worrying numbers. We must also try to tackle this issue, because it is an important issue. Senator Mattesini highlighted the need to start a reconnaissance of the experiences in the different territories on the policies of support for the family. I agree and it is also my intention to initiate - and I say this in continuity and with respect for the work done by those who preceded me (I see Senator Giovanardi here) - the updating of the current national plan of the family through the necessary contribution of the Regions and local authorities to the unified Conference. Senator Giovanardi, I respond above all to your premise. There are articulations and organizational activities within the assigned delegations that are functional to the government's activity. I believe that the delegation to the family is complete and allows me to give a stimulus to my colleagues in government to achieve organic discipline. It is a delegation without a portfolio, as the objective is to make the other colleagues of the Government spend, in an organic and effective way, in support of the family, the resources within their competence. Senator Barani has put questions to which I respond by highlighting the measure called social act, pending in the Chamber of Deputies. To finance this delegation, it is expected that a fund will be set up to combat poverty and social exclusion of EUR 600 million for 2016, increased from 2017, with one billion per year. There is, then, another set of measures. Senator Bencini raised the issue of gambling. I have highlighted how a contradiction should be resolved. I say this beyond the delegation to regional affairs, which leads me, in a unified conference, to preside over a relationship between government and local authorities. There is a contradiction between a State which cannot ignore an entry and the State itself which initiates policies to counter certain risks. On this very subject, I asked the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister for Health to include a representative of mine in the framework of the Observatory for combating the spread of gambling and the phenomenon of serious dependence, an institution that implements the 2015 Stability Act, precisely because I am convinced that this dependence heavily affects family relations. Senator Panizza put the theme of the family audit, which I am particularly sensitive to. I was recently in Bari: the Puglia Region has received, in collaboration with the Province of Trento (which was the Province in which the idea was generated, always supported by the Department of the family), the path of the family audit. It is also a very significant and qualifying path for the growth of enterprises with certain rules that are close to the needs of families and workers. With regard to the question of Senator Catalfo, the Government, in accordance with the well-known judgments of the Council of State, has proposed an amendment that is the subject of the inspection union, restoring an ISEE calculation system, limited to the audience of people with disabilities, coinciding with the previous one to the introduction of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers n. 159 of 2013 and still source of the overall matter under consideration. On this subject I advise the senator to start a relationship, even dialectical, on the considerations that are certainly to be carefully analyzed, with the minister competent in matters that certainly, as far as I am concerned, can be sensitized. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u94	MATTESINI (PD). Minister, I am pleased with your reply because you have taken an important step. In view of the promotion and valorisation of the important work that this Government has done, it is right to give it further strength precisely in this connection. You called it a single text, I do not know what the name is, but certainly the link serves, without forgetting that there is a great inequality between the territories and that therefore it will also serve to work with the Regions and the Municipalities to create synergy. The new text of the Constitution, and in particular the amendment of Article 117, which, in the term 'general and common provisions', covers, for example, social and health policies at national level, certainly helps us in this regard. I also believe that we must work carefully, and you have stressed this in part, on the fact that today the Ministry is of the family but the reality is of the families. I quote, without any further heavy words, the ISTAT that tells us that in recent years the population has decreased by 10% and families have increased by 47 percent, so we need adequate policies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u97	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I recognise that you have been in this office, and in particular you have been delegated for the family, for a very short time, but frankly I do not believe that from your words the Italian families have made the intention to enlarge their number because the single text is a good thing but frankly I do not believe that it is what you expect, especially if it remains alone. The fact remains that the government has found the money to extend the baby bonus even to non-EU children who already make many of them, so much so that in their countries there are too many and come here, and has found the money to give 60,000 euros for every new job to companies. If we gave a third of what every immigrant in Italy costs to families who make children, we would have a demographic boom, and we would have to face a beautiful emergency: that of having new kindergartens and new schools. Unfortunately, the government's policy, to date, has totally neglected the family. Your advantage over the Head of Government is that at least you haven't made promises that you won't keep, but you haven't even made promises.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u100	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, Minister, I have listened to you and frankly I have taken only jagged and fragmented measures from your words: you have mentioned the single text on families, you have said that ideas need to be reordered and that it is difficult to orientate themselves with all these measures. I would like to point out to you that in Italy there are almost three million poor families and if we talk about families with children there are about one million. The so-called poverty bill will absolutely not meet the needs. We need, yes, a serious measure to be discussed like the one we propose - the income of citizenship - that this majority does not want to discuss for clear reasons, because it would abolish the vote of political-mafia exchange and the blackmail of labour. As far as the ISEE is concerned, Minister, of course you are interested and will certainly be interested in the relevant Minister, but certainly you too. Let me give you an example of HandyLex's study: a family of three members, consisting of two parents with a minor child, who receive the accompanying allowance and an income of 12,000 euros, with the decree of the previous President of the Council of Ministers would have had an ISEE of 6.617, and instead with the new amendment comes to 8,661 euros. If we say the agencies have to make up for it... We will then see what the conditions of families with disabilities will be.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u103	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I would like to take back what the Minister has said, namely that the State is getting a great income from gambling. Probably such income is higher than the expense it then faces to cure the ludopathies. Unfortunately, however, the social, patrimonial and non-capital damage of the person who falls into this dependence is not quantified. I am pleased that in the law of stability it has been established - excuse the pun - that a competent figure is appointed, who will accompany him in his ministry, to better understand what is happening around gambling. If a first step has been taken, even with the elimination of television advertising during daytime hours, this is not enough to prevent and create a moral persuasion and a culture of non-gambling. So implementing the non-game offer quickly, I think, should be the priority of this government, of course, in this area.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u106	ANITORI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I think there has been an oversight. The Minister... president. Yes, he had asked for more time, but our times are linked to live television. The Minister represented us with this requirement and I apologise for him. Then he'll provide you with some response elements. ANITORI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Thank you, Mr President. I hope I may have an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u109	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am certainly satisfied with the words in which the Minister expressed appreciation for the project of the standard family audit and also for the experience of our Province; of course I hope that he can actively support it. I am equally satisfied with the single text on the family, which I hope will contain a whole series of rules, from the simplification of access to the facilitation on services, which I believe Italy really needs today. We are ready to make our contribution to this. We have already made some proposals, which are absolutely useful and effective.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u112	Mr Barani (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, if we were on Facebook, I would say that I like what the Minister said, especially in the part where he referred to the fact that, in the middle of his life, he had found himself in a dark forest, as Deputy Minister of Justice, where the laws were interpreted and not applied, while now he has finally returned to see the stars, with the delegation to the family. With this unique text on the family, perhaps divided by the group of the North, the Centre and the South, where there is a difference of necessity and need, you can really bring families back to have children.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u115	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, it is not the fault of the new Minister, but it is enough to do the things already indicated. I am thinking, for example, of the family quotient and the parametric of the cost of service according to the number of children; it is all written, but nothing has been done. In fact, yesterday was turned upside down. Two men and two women who make a civil union are recognized as survivors. A man and a woman who live together for twenty or thirty years and have children does not recognize the reversibility or other rights that are given to gay couples. It is a government that moves in exactly the opposite direction to those that are the rights of the family provided by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u118	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is not your fault that the Minister does not want me to do this. It is not your fault that the family is not a priority for this Government. Unfortunately, a ministry has been taken which the President of the Council may not consider to be a priority, given what has happened with the school these days. We know very well what is happening: ten million Italians below the poverty line are not crumbs. We know very well that this Government has decided to allocate three billion and 300 million for the reception of refugees or fake refugees (it has not been understood what). We know very well that this Government, in order to combat birth, has decided to transform the traditional family, the natural family, the family provided for in Article 29 of the Constitution and therefore grants facilities to families composed of man-man or woman-woman. We wonder how he does it. Since the President-in-Office of the Council is able to perform miracles, we wonder how he can fight Christmas with families made up of people of the same sex. Maybe he's capable and able to procreate a man with a man and a woman with a woman. This will be Renzi's miracle for next year.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u121	Tarquinio (CoR). As everyone has said, Minister, you have just arrived: we await you on the law of stability. We have given indications and we will press for it, because we will be ready to propose concrete acts, as several colleagues have said, and as I repeat. I therefore invite everyone, but I say this with serenity, especially to my colleagues in the majority, to consider that on some issues it is useless to demagogy or boast, talking about reforms or not reforms. We must talk about the concrete things that must be done: words that take away the wind and words often die, but people cannot die and families cannot die. We have given directions and we will be precise in pressing you, Minister. Now we trust you, because you've just arrived and you need time. Let us see what he will do: if, unlike others, he will do good things, we will have no difficulty supporting him. It depends on what he will do and on his willingness to deal with the problems or to carry out demagogic acts, something on which we would not agree at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u122	Minister Costa has the right to complete his reply, answering briefly the question posed by Senator Anitori.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u123	Mr. President, I apologize to Senator Anitori. The plan for social and educational services for early childhood, in 2015, was relaunched thanks to new funding, amounting to 100 million euros, currently in the delivery phase. In the 2016 Document on Economics and Finance, by December 2016, the refinancing of the fund for the relaunch of the Development Plan for Social and Educational Services for Early Childhood is foreseen, in order to ensure family policies that facilitate the reconciliation of living and working times. That was the specific answer I owed to Senator Anitori's question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u124	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Costa for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u125	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-626.ana.u126	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 17 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.18.
