ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 13 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that Senator Antonio D'Alì has submitted a request for the procedure - provided for in the second paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution and governed by Articles 4 and 6 of the Law of 25 May 1970, n. 352 - for the request for a referendum, by one fifth of the members of the Senate of the Republic, on the constitutional law containing provisions for the overcoming of equal bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the reduction of the costs of operation of the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, approved by the Senate of the Republic, in second resolution - by an absolute majority, less than two thirds, of its members - at the sitting of 20 January 2016, and by the Chamber of Deputies, in second resolution - by an absolute majority, less than two thirds, of its members - in the session of 12 April 2016, as communicated in the Official Gazette No 88 of 15 April 2016, pursuant to Article 3 of Law No 352 of 25 May 1970. On the proposal of Senator D'Alì, Senators Vito Claudio Crimi, Loredana De Petris and Gian Marco Centinario were appointed as delegates to deposit the request for a referendum at the Registry of the Court of Cassation, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 6 of the cited Law n. 352 of 1970. The quorum for submitting a referendum request shall be 65 signatures. The request must be received at the Registry of the Court of Cassation within three months of the publication of the aforementioned notice, i.e. by 15 July 2016 (Article 4, second paragraph, of Law No 352 of 25 May 1970). The papers for the signing of the referendum request are available to the senators at the Pannini Hall of Palazzo Madama until the end of today's sitting. From tomorrow and on Monday to Friday the request can be signed from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m. Officials delegated by the Secretary General will authenticate the signatures of the honourable senators, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 6 of Law No 352 of 25 May 1970.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00551 and 1-00554 of distrust of the Government. I call Senator Petrocelli to explain motion No 551.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u6	That is a good start, Mr President: the microphone has come off! [[Laughter.]] Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor: I had prepared a serious, detailed speech and I had written it in order to be precise and timely before the President of the Council and the Government, but frankly, I realize that I cannot do it. I can't read what I prepared because I'm angry. I am very angry and you can imagine why it is: first because I am Lucan [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and I have seen live, not only in the last few months, but in twenty-five years, what has happened in my region and what from my region is about to be exported throughout the country, along with the garbage trucks. I am also angry because Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in February 2014, came to this House with a quote from the song by Gigliola Cincetti "I am not old." It seems to me that, in these months of the Presidency of the Council, he has shown that he has a lot more hair on his stomach than a person who is not of age. He has demonstrated this widely and many members of his Government have demonstrated it. I am angry, Mr President, because this Government has a tendency, automatic and continuous, to diminish the important things, to make them pass through the traces, to hide the dust under the carpet and the case we are talking about on this occasion, which is not only a judicial case, but is eminently and deeply political, it demonstrates this once again. This is a case in which we have seen amendments in favour of the late-night lobbyists in the House of Deputies, agilely, by a Minister for relations with Parliament who, as young as the President-in-Office of the Council, has shown so much and so much agility in the insertion of amendments that favoured oil companies and companies that work with them, to show then the same agility in trying to get out of it and in saying that he had no responsibility. This is not a suitable behaviour for a Minister for relations with Parliament. And this government - I want to repeat this once again - is doing everything to cut off the controversy, to hide the important issues and to bring them back only and exclusively to the judicial affair, decomposing it and calling it small stuff. Well, the judicial question is not a small matter, but it involves the Government in its completeness, the Minister for Relations with Parliament, a Undersecretary, the former Minister Guidi. From my point of view it is important to stress, in the speech I will make, especially the political aspects, before the judicial ones, because the latter, in one way or another, are very well known. I must admit that the Council President's habit of keeping track of important issues certainly arises with him, at least with regard to Basilicata and the issues of oil lobbying. Senator Paolo Romani, then exponent of the People of Freedoms, invented it, saying, when he was Minister of Economic Development: "But what do you want us to do with concessions to oilmen? We'll do yes and no four holes on the ground. Since then 447, more than four have been made of holes in Basilicata. The habit of this Government to keep the important issues and the great truths in silence is also reflected in the activity of some of its members, especially those of Lucan; and as a Lucan I must reiterate it. I refer, punctually, to the Deputy Minister of the Interior Filippo Bubbico, who happened a few days ago, on April 8, he came out with an interview in which he spoke about the question of Red Tempa and the scandal saying that, in his opinion, the institutions have actually shown that they are without credibility, because the protocols of legality, which were to guarantee transparency, have not been respected. But what is the Deputy Minister talking about, like he dropped off Mars just the day before yesterday? The deputy minister Filippo Bubbico was city council member for health and the environment from 1995 to 2000 and the following year, for another five years (from 2000 to 2005), he was governor of Basilicata; it is the years in which the protocol of understanding between ENI, Shell and Region was signed. Subsequently, in 2006, in particular, a memorandum was signed between the Government and the Region by the next governor of Basilicata Vito De Filippo, and another member of this Government, Undersecretary for Health, happened. That protocol reiterated the concepts that, if I can allow myself to express it with a speech I usually use, characterize this Government as a "fossil government." Indeed, Mr President, since those years in the seat of the ENI in Basilicata, which is located in the former convent of Viggiano, there has been a continuous procession of stakeholders, lawful and less lawful, to make the procession that every one has the faithful make to bring the Black Madonna from the village of Viggiano to the sanctuary on the mountain. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These are the processions to which the Lucans had to attend, from 1998 to today. And speaking of pilgrimages - I have to say this in this House - how much longer do I have to wait, in terms of pilgrimages, for the Committee of Inquiry into ENI that I asked this Senate in September 2015, indeed in June 2015, finally to see the light? Should I wait for some particular pilgrimage? Whose? Tell me, perhaps later, the President-in-Office of the Council, that with his party and with the New Right Centre, he is putting the wheel in the middle of the debate and the approval of this Commission of Inquiry into ENI, which we want not because we want to bring down the company, but because we want to see clear about a nation's heritage, which is also part of a scandal involving five of its leaders in Basilicata. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The fossil governments, dear Mr Grasso, have literally stormed Basilicata in recent years. This region is important not only from the naturalistic point of view, but socio-economic and environmental. It contains within it one of the largest water basins in Europe. It has 14 dams, which have a total capacity of more than a billion cubic meters of drinking water. It has sources that deliver about 10,000 liters per second, which would be 600,000 liters of good water per minute, 864 million liters per day and more than 315 billion liters renewable per year. On the contrary, this fossil government, but also the previous ones, pushes for the oil present in the lucano subsoil, which is estimated in about 800 million barrels in total. Compared with 315 billion litres of renewable good water, 800 million barrels are essentially non-renewable, and I do not have to say for sure, that I am a modest geologist in the province. Moreover, since oil does not flow like spring water, it is good that this House and those who listen to us know that it is extracted up to four kilometers deep. To extract it, to pierce and to search for it, you can use up to 500 substances, many of which are toxic and harmful, and some also radioactive, such as americium 241. Because of holes, in Basilicata, from 1997 to today, they made 447, and not the 4 of which was said before, and they made them 500 meters from a hospital, close to the charging areas of the springs, in the farmhouses in Metapontino, these are the data that should be remembered to the Italians. Mr President, on the basis of a 20-year study presented by the Institute of Cancers in Milan, Basilicata was found to be a region which, from 1990 to 2010, had a tumor incidence rate of twice the national average. So, in simple terms, in twenty years the Basilicata has reached, in the tumor increase, all the other Regions of Italy. What then did the former President of the Basilicata Region, the current Undersecretary for Health Vito De Filippo? In order to diminish this figure he carried out another research by the University La Sapienza, relative only to the year 2010. Obviously, the increase had already occurred and in 2010 the cancer rates in Basilicata were slightly lower than those of the national average. Governor De Filippo then had the same exit as Maria Antoinette of Austria when she told her subjects that if they had no bread, they could eat the croissants. He blamed industrial development, the fact that Lucan families had also been able to eat a lot of snacks and that development had finally arrived also in Basilicata. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is the political behavior of the people who sit in this Government: to mess up, to belittle, to cancel if it's okay. And therefore, because it is an oil system, which is objectively a system of economic, industrial, political and very often illegal interests, from which the Government cannot be considered immune and not even politically not responsible for the connections it has with the said system, I ask the Assembly of the Senate to vote for this motion and thus express the distrust of the Government system as a whole, starting with its astro, the President of the Council Matteo Renzi, passing from all the planets that revolve around it, such as the ministers Boschi, Alfano, Padoan and the others, up to the planets, such as the deputy minister Bubbico, and ending with the asteroids, the last of the row, such as the undersecretary to health Vito De Filippo. [[The Senators of the M5S Group stand up. Live applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u7	I call Senators Malan and Centinario to explain motion 554.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u8	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled motion of censure No 554 for various reasons. The first, the one that gave us the opportunity, is the story that led to the resignation of Minister Guidi, who felt she had to resign for the very well-known affair, ended in the newspapers. However, that provision had not been invented by Minister Guidi; confidence had been placed on that text, which concerns the Government collectively and in the first place who presides over it. Trust is not a trivial or technical fact: it implies that everything contained in the provision is the direct and collective responsibility of the Government. That would not have been the case if a point-by-point comparison had been possible, in which the famous amendment that has been discussed so much had been expressed, even in the majority. This has not been the case and therefore responsibility is collective. Let's remember that that amendment, then passed into the law of stability together with other 654 paragraphs on which the Senate had the opportunity to say only or yes to everything or not to everything, had already appeared within the decree-law unblocks Italy and then was considered inadmissible due to extraneousness of matter by the President of the competent Commission of the House. Therefore, if he was extraneous to the measure that was intended to unblock works in Italy, he was even more alien to the law of stability; obviously, however, he was very dear to the Government because, presented within the decree-law unlocks Italy, he was subsequently put into play in the law of stability. The decree-law unlocks Italy is emblematic. Not only on that there were abnormal consultations, but also on the famous Article 5, the President of the Council himself told us, when that text was announced (or rather before it was) that he had consulted the main beneficiaries of that measure, i.e. the motorway dealers waiting for ten, twenty or thirty years, to know from them what provisions they would have included in it. However, the decree-law should be adopted in cases of extraordinary necessity and urgency; if you want to consult someone, perhaps you should consult Parliament, someone else and not just those directly concerned. Of course there is not only this specific affair, there is much more. We present this motion because Italian GDP is among the lowest growth rate in Europe and has an optical effect for which the farther and the more it grows, while as the deadline approaches the government's forecasts decrease: growth for 2016 had to be 2.6 percent, then it has been reduced to 1.6%, the last forecast is 1.2%. If this prediction is also correct (and it would be the first time because unfortunately on all other occasions the reality has proved worse than the forecasts), it will mean that well that goes - and the Government says - at the end of the year we will be only 3% of GDP less than in 2011, when there was the last Government direct expression of the citizens, the last voted and that it was based on majorities to which the citizens had asked to support this Government, unlike its which is voted in a meaningful and decisive way by elected parliamentarians with much more mandate from the citizens. Meanwhile, while GDP has decreased by 3%, debt has increased by over 300 billion with this Government. Our motion must be updated, because it was written a few days before the Bank of Italy made known the data of February 2016 and the public debt increased by 107 billion. This figure is abstract, so let's try to see the amount for every citizen, which is an extremely significant figure. The additional debt that every citizen finds on the head as a result of these two years of Government is equal to 1,920 euros; dividing this figure for 24 months (which are those passed from February 2014 to today) is obtained 80 euros per month, a family figure to all of us. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] In other words, citizens who have had the privilege of having these 80 euros (retirees no, self-employed no, those who earn too much no, those who earn too little no), actually had a round: you have 80 euros more in your pocket, but you also have 80 euros more in your bank debt. On the other hand, everyone else simply took the extra debts without having any benefit, as well as different taxes that have increased. We are presenting this motion of no confidence for many other reasons, and I shall confine myself to the last two. Unemployment: you, President-in-Office of the Council, at the beginning of April 2014 (perhaps it was 1 April, I don't remember, but it would have been appropriate) said that in a few months unemployment would fall below 10%. Based on the DEF presented just these days, still in 2018 will be well above 10%; these are government forecasts, not our forecasts. We would hope that unemployment would fall, but that is not the case. Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you promised that by 21 September 2014 all public administration debts to companies would be paid. On September 21 it is a date that is very dear to you, and it had become very expensive also to all the enterprises that waited for the payment. Unfortunately, they paid dearly, because the payment is still not completed and so many companies have closed down, so many jobs have been lost because this precise commitment has not been respected. There is more than enough, on each of these points, to vote for mistrust, to ask this Government to pass the hand because enough damage has already done. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u9	Mr President, I have heard very carefully the words of my fellow Members who have tried, with commitment and dedication, to pursue the reasons of the signatories of this motion of distrust. Given how things have been going in this House lately, I am a little more realistic, a little more distrustful of the motion of no confidence. Today, as today, coming to the Chamber, Mr President, and trying to convince my fellow senators of the goodness of our motion of distrust, I think it can be considered an impossible mission. What we expect is that the motion of distrust against this Government will be presented by Italian citizens in October. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Today, this is just a political exercise in this House so that we can share and try to get as many people as possible through the media as possible to what this Government is doing. So I could've just stood here and talked, said, told, explained the technical reasons why this government has to go home. The technical reasons you know them very well, because you have lived them in first person, since you were the main actors of the umpteenth telenovela of the worst business committee put in a Government of the Italian Republic. As a result, we are here to witness once again all the games and games, Ministers who resign, indignant people, various replacements of people who, if there had not been telephone interceptions, we would have seen them still smiling in the benches of the government. In a parliamentary term - I have been here for a few years - in which it is true that the President of the Council has changed, but the majority, in the end, is more or less the same, we have found so many people sitting in those benches that have been itchy by justice: I think of Minister Chancellors, the former Minister Idem, the former Minister Lupi, all the Boschi families, Renzi, Lotti, everything that has happened, about which we have already spoken in these classrooms and on which we have read kilometers and kilometers of words in the newspapers; I also think of former Minister Guidi, the former member of the Government De Filippo. So we have seen it and I fear that we will see it, because, as we know, this motion of mistrust will end. This government will continue to give Italians one humiliation after another. In the past few hours I was in Latina. For the election campaign we had two days in Latina and we met hundreds of citizens and we all talked about serious and important things. We talked about reform Fornero, that damn reform that most Italians would like to send back to sender. We have talked about immigration, security and work, all of which are problems that cannot be dealt with with by this Government because then there is the confidence of the shift and they cannot be dealt with in this House. Today, as today, you talk about all these things with the citizens. But to all the citizens we talked to, we asked what they wanted us to say to the government. 99 percent told us they wanted the government to go home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] This government has to go home for us. It has to resign. Alas, it will not give you thanks to this Parliamentary Assembly, but thanks to the Italian citizens. Dear citizens, it will not give you thanks to the Parliamentary Assembly simply because this majority is governed by people who have been elected by the votes of the voters of the centre-right, people who, in good faith, on the ballot had put a cross on symbols opposed to that of the party of which the President of the Council is Secretary. Today, these people, betraying the electoral mandate of voters, will allow this business committee to sit before us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Shame! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I am talking about colleagues who have always supported the President-in-Office of the Council. Then I think of Mr. Verdini and company, some of the out-of-dates of the 5 Star Movement, some of the former Legists, who have recently fallen in love with Renzi. Thanks to all these people, dear Italian citizens, we will still have this President of the Council and this Government. Let's get ready because October is not so far away: a nice summer holiday and then we send it home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u10	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, gentlemen of the government, I will not discuss the merits of the Potenza inquiry in these five minutes. First of all, because I do not know you enough, and then because criminal judgments are not given in this House and, finally, because the guarantees apply to your opponents even before friends. I have always respected this rule and I will not fail today, partly because this allows me to highlight the distorted way in which the President-in-Office of the Council is a profession of guarantee. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this has made it even more obscure than before, if possible, the category of political opportunity that has so far guided your approach to the judicial affairs that have concerned or the scope of your Executive. In fact, in these weeks, we saw first a Minister not investigated, yet another, resign for political opportunity following an interception concerning an amendment of the Government; the day after the Premier assume responsibility for that text: "the amendment c'est moi!'; then it was learned of the involvement of a Undersecretary in the investigation, this time as a suspect and in the name of the presumption of innocence the problem was not really posed. I have always been against - and I am very opposed to - automatism so that registration on the register of suspects must necessarily involve resignation. This, in fact, would be to leave the selection of the political class to the investigators before the celebration of a process and thus deprive the policy of its autonomy. But it seems to me that we are now at the paradox for which, in order to avoid resignation, we must wait for the guarantee notice. If I am not investigated, my fate hangs on to the category of political opportunity, applied with a certain - let's say - elasticity; if I am inquisited I can breathe a sigh of relief, because the wing of political opportunity ends and the guarantee that blazes me in my place is triggered. If you want to remain in your place, the guarantee notice must be issued by the Government and is the subject of an inquiry. Wish him well. All this is paradoxical and, if you will allow me, even a little ridiculous. The second antinomy that this issue highlights concerns legislation and its consequences. Precisely in the name of that separation of the powers so evoked, which assigns legislators the task of writing the laws and the magistrates that of applying them, one cannot adopt legislation that judges everything and segment the specifics by chasing the social phenomena - think about environmental crimes, feminicide, street murder - and then complain why the magistrates adapt to the approach of the legislators. We cannot introduce into the law an evanescent crime such as the trafficking of influence in the absence of regulation of lobbying activity - and many colleagues in this House, those present even in the last legislature, will remember how much effort it cost us to set at least the parameter of the undue asset advantage - and then complain if the investigative activity ends up lapping the sphere of political decision. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, a Head of Government would expect at least some precision. In fact, with the rhetorical ability that you certainly do not lack, I believe that in order to defend the Government on Tempa Rossa you have created an intentional communicative confusion between public works and private initiatives. Let it be clear that I personally have nothing against the latter, on the contrary, I believe that in compliance with the rules they should be welcome. But let it be equally clear, for those who read and judge the ways in which the Government retains its relations and takes its decisions, that Total is not the ENI. A review of the Libyan events of recent years might help to focus the difference a little better. Finally, it is impossible to accuse the magistrates of never reaching judgment and then - beyond the misfortune of having done so a few hours before a sentence - instead of thinking about how to deflate the criminal system, on the one hand the limitation of the crime is still extended without providing for the limitation of the trial, and on the other it is devoted to the judges even the self-certification for the RAI canon. Mr President, for all these reasons we would not have tabled a motion of no confidence, but, for all these reasons, in the face of a motion of no confidence, we will vote in favour. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and LN-Aut]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u12	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these motions of mistrust are, unfortunately, a confirmation of a concept of politics as a delegitimization of the political opponent in turn. I thought that, after twenty years of Berlusconism and anti-Berlusconism that have exhausted our country, a new political phase could arise, in which we could put behind our backs the permanent opposition and inaugurate a new way of conceiving the political confrontation, based on merit and mutual respect. [[Brusio.]] Sorry, Mr President, I am interrupted by Mr Rizzotti all the time: he probably wants to talk. Instead, from the Liberation Committee against Berlusconi we moved to the Liberation Committee against Renzi, formed by all oppositions, including that political part of which I too have been a member, which has undergone for twenty years an unceasing work of political and moral delegitimization. We are immersed in the same climate and atmosphere of hatred that a certain media disinformation feeds daily, and of the union between judicial investigations and disclosure of telephone interceptions, which form a mixture of distrust towards everyone and towards everything. The Left of the Girotondi has been replaced by the Grillo Movement, whose preconceived antagonism towards any decision of the Government is shared today by the new Lepenist League in the name of a nationalism that conflicts with both federalism and Europeanism. We ask ourselves what happened to the center-right; it is as if he had gone to the lesson of justiceism by Marco Travaglio, to the lesson of constitutionalism by the fans of the "Beautiful Constitution in the world," to the lesson of happy degrowth by the theorists of anti-industrialism. In any case, it is for all these reasons that today all the arc of opposition is found to support new - yet another - motions of distrust towards the Government, on the basis of pretexts that could be invoked every day to distrust a government in office. The objective, however, is not to distrust the Government, which has a large majority, nor to indicate an alternative government project, which clearly does not exist. The real objective, common to all the opposition forces, is to deny the evidence, that is, that there is finally a change in place; the real objective is to try to cancel, with a polemic pushed to the maximum of forgery, every positive result obtained by this Government. This explains even, unfortunately, the disrespectful attacks - up to the cowardice - against the Head of State, to whom all our convinced solidarity goes, and even towards the Pope, treated like any politician. In short, those who today will vote together for distrust of the Government are united only by the will to create the maximum of confusion, the maximum of mistrust, the maximum of anger against anyone who has responsibilities of government, at national and international level, and operates according to a democratic idea to govern the world, shrunk today by so many tensions and unprecedented challenges. The motions of mistrust will be rejected, ladies and gentlemen - we all know - but those who support them will continue in their game to the much worse so much the better, they will continue to cynically blow on all the tragedies of our time, they will continue to feed all the fears and concerns, partly understandable, but with the sole aim of gaining consensus on the suffering and the skin of the people, and on the epochal problems that are before us and that would require serious confrontation, with serious and practical solutions. So let these motions of distrust come if they serve to show what is at stake, what is the difference between the two Italies that exist today: there is Italy that, aware of the many difficulties accumulated over time, acts concretely to resolve them; and unfortunately there is another Italy, which focuses on divisions, on mistrust, on failure, and which presented today's motions of distrust. We at AL-A will vote against the two motions presented, because we recognize ourselves in the first Italy, the one that, despite everything, wants to be positive, wants to look to the future, to a world that also needs us - as our Prime Minister Renzi said - to a difficult and complicated world, but that at the same time can offer many opportunities, especially to young people. That is also why we say no to your motions of distrust, because you do not represent any serious alternative; you do not represent any better future. You are merely an expression of irresponsibility, inability to change and failure. [[Applause from the AL-A Group (MpA.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u14	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I have a handful of seconds to make a few brief comments on what we are called upon to debate and vote on today. I would like to stress that Italy of the Values appreciated the resignation of Minister Guidi, an act due to a deplorable affair, while it cannot be said that the energy policy of this Government is equally appreciated. Even more, we have felt amazement, unbelief and even irritation in the face of calls for abstention from the referendum vote or the legitimacy of non-voting, coming from persons who hold or have held prominent institutional positions. Let it be clear: abstention is a constitutionally correct behaviour, voting in referendums is the result of a free choice. By providing for a quorum to participate, Article 75 of the Constitution recognises non-voting as a legitimately expressed will. But voting is a moral duty. Italy of the Values has sided for the yes to the referendum and for the yes to the respect of the constitutional instrument referendary, which manifests itself in the first place participating in the vote. We cannot therefore be accused of having a condescending or missionary position towards a government that we oppose, however, whenever its choices depart from our values and ideas. If we were therefore to vote only and only on the main subject of the motions under discussion today, where we are asked to express a judgment on the story of Minister Guidi and on the shadows of widespread conflicts of interest that alight on the Government, like Italy of the Values, consistent with our battles and our principles, we would express ourselves in favour of the motions of distrust. If we were to give voice only to the belly, or perhaps also to the heart, without thinking about the consequences and without thinking about the good of Italy, we would vote in favour. But the motion of distrust expresses an overall judgment, it is a political act harboring consequences that cannot be ignored by those who want to carry out their function in the interest of the nation. And then we have to note, once again, that there is no possible alternative of government in this legislature, closer to our values and our ideas than to the still not always satisfactory Renzi Government. There are essential draft laws that need to be completed. There is an international economic and political situation that needs government stability. The alternatives, if there were any, were to be found earlier. Now, for better or worse, we must at least arrive in October. The European political crisis, Shengen, the Brexit risk and the eternal Greece issue are all time bombs with which we cannot joke for political speculation. And then there are still open issues on the table, which, like Italy of Values, we believe and we are strongly interested in and against which the Renzi Government has shown to be a valid interlocutor: the law on civil unions, the eighth safeguard for exodates, the feasibility of interventions aimed at promoting greater flexibility in individual choices, to retire, the revision of the weary jobs, the recognition to women of the burdens of family work, are only examples of good work and good projects to be carried out. Not to mention the chaos that would result, at this moment, from the hypothesis of early elections: with an electoral law in the Chamber on which Damocles' sword already hangs of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, a law for the Senate not even voted but the result of a sentence, and constitutional reforms pending referendum vote. It is not possible, therefore, to express a judgment on this debate without taking account, responsibly, of the current absence of better alternatives to the Government of Renzi and the Democratic Party. Although she is not a great statesman or a great politician, I remain of this idea. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u16	Senator Albertini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u17	Mr President, I start from a premise: the two motions of mistrust are both inspired, suggested and argued on the basis of illegal indiscretions of secret acts, since the ongoing investigations are not completed. It should be noted that this premise is not irrelevant to what we are doing because everything that has been disclosed and propalated, we have to say, or it did not concern people investigated, subject to investigations, or in any case it did not have to be made known precisely because the investigations were in progress. On the basis of this premise I would like briefly to develop my modest concepts. I believe that we all recognise the fully lawful legislative activity and, in a representative democracy, the process of lawmaking, listening to organised interests, dialogue with citizens, both as individuals, as associations and as businesses, not only is it admitted, but it is necessary and necessary. I would like to draw attention to my personal experience in the European Parliament, where I have been for nine years. During my first term of office I was Vice President of the Transport Commission and I was the first rapporteur - in the sense that I did the report of the first reading - of the regulation on the rights of passengers by road. As part of a series of meetings, I listened to the associations of disabled people, those of transporters, the organized interests of several countries, both of individual companies and of bodies of more aggregate size. In fact, some of the amendments have come to me explicitly, which have been partly accepted and partly rejected, depending on the appreciation that could have been given to arrive at a reasonable unity of such an important measure that would have concerned the way of travel of 550 million Europeans. Now, we are talking about a motion of distrust which is based on legitimate arguments in itself that have been distorted by misleading communication and investigations that do not know how far they will come to a conclusion of condemnation and that therefore, with the reservation that the Constitution allows us, are to be considered perfectly lawful. Let us remember some previous cases in which the initiation of investigations, then concluded with nothing de facto, caused the fall of a government, such as the Prodi Government. Before that, the wife of the Minister of Foreign Affairs had even been indicted and put in prison. The magistrate who had developed these investigations, then concluded with nothingness, became mayor of Naples and first European Member and the Prodi Government fell. I do not believe that this incident can be repeated today, nor that it is a commendable example for the institutions of the Republic. I am now beginning to conclude because I do not want to exceed the time allocated to me, and I am expressing this last concept: today we will vote against the mistrust and, therefore, in favour of the current Government, but this aspect, the confidence of the Government, becomes secondary to the fact that we do not vote so much or just the confidence of the Government today, but we vote the confidence of the Senate of the Republic - still of the Republic and not of the local autonomy - towards the principles of the Republican Constitution which provide for the separation of powers. And if the judiciary, as it should be, is independent in taking its own decisions, in making its own investigations and in issuing its own judgments, the National Parliament is free and independent to legislate, to carry out the necessary legislative acts for the Government and the Government has a duty to choose and to take the most appropriate decisions. And it is for these reasons that we vote against mistrust, to assert this autonomy and this independence of the legislative power over the judiciary. Only the Constitution can tell us that the laws we make are inappropriate, not a proxy, nor an ordinary court, and you know that, President, because it comes from that category. I quickly start to conclude: on the basis of these reasons that are not only of the Government, but are of the Italian Republic, we confirm a confidence that cannot be removed for acts that start from illicit propalation of documents and that have no reference to the substance of our republican institution. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), PD and GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u18	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u19	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, motions of mistrust are part of normal parliamentary dynamics and contrast majority and opposition. In this parliamentary term, the majority who lead the country has voted much more rugged things and I am therefore convinced that, again this time, the Renzi Government will have free way. The Group of Conservatives and Reformists, without much involvement, will still vote for distrust. I say this because this vote will remain an episode end in itself, a pure exercise of political positionings and, consequently, will not change the drama that lives the Basilicata Region: a drama not different from that of Taranto, Augusta and the Land of fires. It is the tragedy of public health, in short, and it is a real tragedy, that we breathe, that our people begin to understand and that I, as a Member of the Basilicata, have a duty to denounce in this Assembly. Basilicata is a small region, but it has the largest offshore oil field in Western Europe. Every day, in the bowels of that region, 3.4 million cubic metres of gas and 81.868 barrels of oil travel: by the way, a barrel contains 159 litres of oil. What do you say? It's not bad as a fortune. A similar heritage, ironic of fate, in the same period - that is from the nineties to today - has been used, to other latitudes, and has produced work and development for the population, studies and researches, which in terms of drilling mean environmental protection and which place that country at the forefront of the world, a sovereign fund managed by the central bank, but owned by the Ministry of Finance, become the largest fund in the world, which owns 1% of the world's stock market and countless properties around the world. At the beginning of 2014, this fund had more than EUR 600 billion. As you will have well understood, I am talking about Norway, a nation in which, as the international press says, 5 million Norwegians are all, potentially, millionaires, in which unemployment is 3%, in which there are one of the best welfare in the world, subsidies for the less fortunate young, 40 billion primary annual surplus and the third highest GDP in the world. What happens, instead, in the "Saudi Basilicata," as my friend Maurizio Bolognetti, secretary of the Lucan radicals and historical memory of environmental disasters caused by drilling? The numbers of the "Saudi Basilicata" are to say the least embarrassing for a ruling class that you want to call. Per capita income is the lowest in Italy, youth unemployment is around 50%, infrastructure is non-existent - Mr President-in-Office of the Council, just mention Matera, European Capital of Culture, the only Italian provincial capital not yet reached by the State Railways [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] - and with a disastrous environmental situation. Is that enough? That would be enough. It is that unfortunately it seems to reread the report of Manlio Rossi Doria, economist and great Southernist, when he wrote, confined to Val d'Agri by fascism, that peasant poverty from oil does not benefit at all. We are no longer at that time, nor at Marcello Sorgi's folklore quote. By the way: I have not yet understood whether to shoot so many imbeciles helps to become director of TG1 or serves to be hosted in the TV lounges. [[Applause from Senator Council.]] But let's return to Basilicata, a wonderful land rich in history, culture, traditions and natural resources: water, oil and gas first and foremost. Its 550,000 inhabitants should be very rich and instead they are the poorest, but what is worse is that on the wonderful land of Basilicata, also known in Roman times as the barn of Italy, lies the threat of an environmental disaster. This is because, as the National Anti-Mafia Attorney writes, the distorted union between entrepreneurship and politics has produced a criminal organization that focuses on all companies and oil processing. How? Dividing contracts, taroccando codes, concealing analyses and environmental monitoring, that is, having, as a highway, the entrailment and the lie. Do you want any proof? The last three presidents of Confindustria Basilicata worked and worked with the Basilicata Region as their main customer. One even, in order not to miss anything, has also agreed to be a regional health council member. Health, that's right. Do you know what oil royalty is for? To pay for public health, the regional health, where, if you don't have the Democratic Party card, you can do nothing, neither the nurse, nor the doctor, nor the health director. Nothing. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti. Comments from the PD Group.]] You've been running that region for 20 years, so don't be shocked, please. It is a perverse interweave, this is still at the time of Banfield, when, after nine months of study in Chiaromonte, a small town in Lucania, in 1958 published the book "The moral basis of a backword society," that is, the history of amoral familialism. The Basilicata unfortunately still has this perverse policy; it is a perverse policy that regulates and directs everything, all impregnating itself. All families, from ASI to APT, passing through the ARPAB, the ARBEA and the Consorzi di reclamation; in short, everything that is regional. A network where controlled and controlled belong to the same family, the same school, the same culture; the culture of those who exploit the needs of the people. And that is how the great wealth of the few has generated the poverty of many. All this under the golden rule of lies. They steal your life and freedom, and in return, they promise you a job that will hardly come. And they distribute the royalty funds in rain, sponsor festivals, country fairs, patron celebrations, club and bocciofile meetings. The mockery, then: laugh, have fun, think nothing and become poor. And if you're unlucky, you'll get sick. Servant six and servant you must remain: the golden rule of the Workers' Party. Then one, a thousand, a hundred thousand boyfriends of ministers, if their stories serve to raise the veil on one of the most terrible scandals of Italian politics. A real scandal, not imagined by owls or those who stand against the development of the country, of which, hopefully soon, the judiciary will define the real contours. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago I listened to a few comments from the press outside the Chamber and it was very curious that there was more attention to the opposition group that subscribed to these motions of distrust, than to the content of these motions and to the material and concrete reasons, even political ones, which led to them. By now we have become accustomed to these smoke curtains, so in the end the attention of the public is shifted and it is almost made to pass this as an initiative that makes the government lose its abbreviation of industriousness, but we would like it to be in the at least honest direction and in at least certain direction of the interests of the citizens. Yes, because we remember that, if we have come to these motions of distrust, it is not because the oppositions are ugly and bad, but because there is a government made up of people who have been called to hold positions of Minister and who have been stained with attitudes to the limit of the offensive towards the citizens. People who lose or do not have a job and then read from the newspapers about tricks made to place the party friend on one side or the other. Citizens who struggle to arrive at the end of the month and then read from the newspapers of speeches between the Minister and his companion who hold to everything except the sphere of public interest. Let us say this because we have reached this motion: because we cannot be governed by a government made up of corrupt people! That is the truth of the facts! [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] And there's nothing to say, because there's a minister missing from the government bench, who had to resign. MIRABELLI (PD). But not because she's being investigated for corruption. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). And she did not resign by the Holy Spirit, but because clear evidence brought her and forced her to resign. This is a government that has not started from this case to give clear demonstrations of a latent and ever stronger conflict between partisan interests and government interests, which should instead be addressed to the country. You see, President Grasso, the government is smothering conspicuously in the lobbying relationships with which the government's support policy is being financed. And it's these lobbying reports that are sending our country to the ground. While President Renzi, when he took the reins of the government, wanted to declare in discontinuity with a past of irreconcilable policies, that the new Executive was interested in politics being made by people who work in the interests of citizens. But what has emerged in the relations between Mr Guidi, his collaborators and lobbyists is not in the interests of the citizens. We must be clear on these points. What will happen today? The motion of no confidence will be voted on. Will the government have confidence or will it not have trust? We'll see about that in a few hours. One thing is certain: we will have the certification, for the umpteenth time, of who composes the majority on which the Government stands. Why do you like it or not like that minority of the PD, who then gets bravado when he gets to the keyboard, when he goes on Facebook or on Twitter, the Renzi government does not hold you, but they hold it AL-A, Verdini and its majority! That same majority that you have disgusted in other times, because it is made up of people who have been sent back to trial! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rizzotti]] This is the difference that should be made between those who rule honestly and those who are in government with these interests behind them. You should not bow to these interests and today you should vote for the government's distrust. Clean up! I'm also telling someone who might be scared. Do not be afraid to return to the vote, because in the vote there is only one moment of democracy that maybe is uncomfortable for those who govern today. Democracy is uncomfortable, because it means accountability to the citizens. But we don't want to lose this bad habit. President Grasso, just read any newspaper to know the opinion of the citizens about the government. It is not enough to cut a television service so that Vinitaly does not hear the whistle and instead show the applause received under some other circumstances. If in fact the country reacts in a rabid way, it is what the citizens are making of this Government is an opinion that pertains to adjectives such as trafficsters, ridiculers, interlacers, brazen, cheaters and dishonest. And a government that is not honest cannot govern the country and cannot be an example to other citizens who honestly and correctly pay taxes. That is why we are here today to vote on the motion of no confidence. 'Cause you're a bunch of trollers, and we don't want a bunch of trollers! Shame on you! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Comments of the Senators Mirabelli and Borioli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u22	These are political judgments, of course.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u23	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u24	Mr President, my speech will be very brief and will also be much more calm, because the two comments I intend to make to the attention of the Government are a statistical and a political consideration. The statistical consideration, which goes hand in hand with the motivations brought by those who have illustrated the motions of distrust, is that this is the first left-wing government in Italy that ends up in the sight of a motion of distrust for a question of transparency. That's objective. This is the first time that in Italy a government, left or centre-left, that is to say, is called into question in a parliamentary debate on a question of transparency. This is an important statistical fact - and I would also like to stress this with regard to the journalists present in this debate - because it is the end of a myth; that is, it is a fact that reasonably explains that even on the left they keep a family, that even on the left there is a serious problem of making plans for power, that even on the left there is a dynamic whereby the border between the public interest and that of lobby and part can be seen through the hole in the lock that, regardless of what will be the result of judicial investigations, makes the most natural thing clear: people are made of expectations, tensions, impulses that make them identical. In this sense, I would like to reverse the reasoning put forward by Mrs Repetti. Of course, rightly for twenty years it has been said that there was a tendency to criminalize center-right governments, as if center-right meant evil in itself. However, this reasoning began well before, that is, when, through the talk shows (and in this regard, I believe that I will have the President of the Council alongside me in the harsh judgment) they wanted, for example, to show that a party called Christian Democracy was one with the Mafia. I am referring to an interpretation of history where the story of the winners, or those who at that time are preponderant, nails those who instead want to make politics with a project maybe partial, but still that aims for good for the country. The second characterisation of my reflection is political. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, currently have no political opponents in the country. I think this notation can reassure you. I'm not here. There is a solid block, the Democratic Party, and there is an equally solid block represented by the protest vote under the 5 Star Movement; there is an additional large area of political consensus that we still define with the synthesis of the center-right endidia, but that obviously does not find at this time either the set-ups, the ideas, or perhaps a truly proactive leadership to be truly competitive. From this point of view, therefore, you are quiet. He just has a little problem, an unwanted guest at dinner called reality, because reality is not what she tells. This is the true origin of an approach even with respect to these motions of distrust that, as my colleague Quagliariello explained well, motivates us and, in this repulsion that the Government has towards reality, convinces us that every opportunity is good, not to give a shoulder-back, but to make people realize what is true. And what's true? A few days ago, the Government signed an agreement between the European Union and Turkey on migration. Perhaps he did not read the papers, because to sign an agreement in which the Mediterranean is considered a kind of basin with two holes, so one closes to trigger the pressure on another, the not having inserted in that agreement salient points that would allow Italy not to be predestined victim of what happens in the southern area of the Mediterranean is a clear symptom of how reality is not the one that is told. In fact, Italy, where it has to count, does not count; Italy, where it does not have to do damage and debt, owes up to 100 billion since the history of this Government began; in this sense, moreover, it does not encounter a judgment of reality that highlights the presence of a positive tension, because in the process of time, drop by drop (but it is a drop that digs the stone) inevitably the Italian destiny appears compromised. Looking at Italy's actions, I would like to refer to the provision on good school. Have you noticed the chaos in Italian schools? Have you noticed that you have transformed the so-called additional staff of teachers into a masnada of people who cannot be employed with complete sense? Have you noticed that many of the measures you have taken are not repulsive because the titles were wrong, but more simply because you wrote the chapters very badly? That is why I express my full understanding of the people involved in these unfortunate parajudicial events, especially towards the present Undersecretary De Vincenti. I hope that someday my wiretapping can be published. I am sure that I have always had, to you, Mr. Undersecretary, but also to any representative of the Government, much more flattering and affectionate expressions. That is precisely why I say that today is also a good opportunity to vote for the distrust of this Government. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and Senator Romani Paolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u25	We greet students, students and teachers of the Institute of Secondary Education A. Beautiful of Molfetta, in the province of Bari, that follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u27	Mr President, we are a small group of resistanceists who want to contribute to the history of Italy and who want to follow anyone who has a liberal reform project. First we did it with President Berlusconi, and now we are doing it, I believe, as a Pretorian, with your Government, Mr President. Indeed, our history, mine and that of other colleagues, comes from the First Republic: I am a socialist and sooner or later we should tell ourselves, in Luke's parable, who is the prodigal son, who is who has gone out and who is who has entered, but this will be a more political debate that we will have. We are a Group that loves and exalts history while others do not appreciate it, forget it, maybe they don't even know it. I confess that I cannot bear the attitude of political groups who boast that they do not know what happened when they were not yet born. I wasn't born at the time of Turati, but I know him very well. We are a Group, Mr President, which considers experience to be a virtue, while others consider it a damage, even if it is then noticed that amateurs on the brink, those who do not know politics, who come from civil society, can also cause damage to the government, because they generally also have too many relatives and boyfriends. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that I am a woman, I am not a saint, a song by the Squallor, well played by Rosanna Fratello. Human weakness is also this; evil is that vultures exploit this human weakness. But in politics and administration, in addition to honesty, we need preparation, ability and courage. And we, Mr President, recognize these qualities in your Government, and that is why the whole Group will unanimously vote against the motion of no confidence. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u28	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u29	Mr President, Mr Renzi, ladies and gentlemen, I have always been a guarantee and I have always believed that trials take place in court, on specific issues, for subjective and circumstantial responsibilities, and not in Parliament as we want to do today, nor in the media (TV, newspapers and the Net), as is usually the case. These attitudes are practiced in the peronist, populist, illiberal, authoritarian regimes. Mr Renzi, I have to admit that the use of repeated and instrumentalizing motions of distrust towards your Government and individual ministers has made me overcome the reservations I had with you regarding certain tight interventions in parliamentary activity by the Executive, and if you will allow me, also with respect to some of your approaches not always based on the most refined diplomacy between Parliament and Government. Over time I have overcome the reservations also for the continuation of attitudes marked by prejudice and an action of instrumental opposition, without concrete proposals from a large part of those who oppose, whose attitude is often confused with behaviors of jumping banks and circus, which constantly escape the duty of the proposal and a opposition on merit, being only capable of criticism and tacticism. The sole objective of this opposition was to promote inconclusivity and to curb the necessary and urgent process of change caused by the serious regulatory delays and aimed at achieving concrete objectives, aimed at giving Italy efficiency, speed of decision, reduction of unnecessary bureaucrats and assumption of full responsibility of those who are called to operate and decide. That's why I had to rethink myself and I had to convince myself that yours is an effective method in the given condition, right. The results achieved so far are important, albeit not exhaustive, but it is worth listing some of them: the process of modernising public administration, launched with the reform of Minister Madia, which is facing decades of problems of immobility is sincerely a good starting point. We must insist, combining it with an impetuous and without reluctance of positive results, but also of distortions, with perverse and criminal significance, produced by the Bassanini law on local authorities. Important steps have been taken to overcome unacceptable delays, privileges, obvious contradictions, constitutional failure in the field of justice. Legislative measures have been taken in the criminal and civil sectors which have helped to improve relations between citizens and the judicial system. I would like to recall, as a symbol of a change of course, the law on the civil liability of magistrates, which has been waiting for decades to be made effective with the changes introduced. President Renzi, today, however, we must fill the unacceptable delay we have on civil unions and biological will, and we need a more advanced family right and - let me, having in mind the unacceptable story of our fellow citizen Giulio Regenti - bring to an end the law that introduces the crime of torture in the Italian legal system. Great progress has been made in the public school with the stabilization of teachers and the empowerment of managers. Well, as well as well is being done in the field of the valorization and promotion of our artistic, cultural, environmental and historical riches that give life to the tourism and the economy of our country. I see more tenuous signs in economic policies, but I am aware of the difficulties and burdens that arise from the past and from the international constraints present, but I know that your commitment and that of your Government in these fields are strong. I would like to make two final points. The first is on our European and foreign policy: prudence, but also determination, and I see that you are moving with this imprint. It is necessary to get out of subordination, to propose, to know how to listen and to confront each other. A strong stimulus is essential to the European Socialist family, Mr Renzi, which is unfortunately too dependent on domestic policy requirements. The socialists have always been able to look far in time and in the world; they are doing too little today and you are right to tread in calling everyone to a different commitment to face the epochal phenomenon, and with tragic traits, of immigration, for peace in the world and, in particular, in the Mediterranean and Libya, where our commitment must be significant, determined, but free from simplifications and muscular interventions. The last issue concerns constitutional reforms, which Italy urgently needs. Allow me to tell you that it should be extended: we cannot limit it to what has already been done, and I quote a few titles: reordering regional borders and possible amalgamations; overcoming the fragmentation of territorial administrations, municipalities in the first place; reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, overcoming the mandatory prosecution (which has remained an unenforced rule) and final and effective separation of careers. With regard to separation, incompatibility and conflicts of interest, I have lost sight of the legislative proposals that regulate these particularly critical issues in defining the balance between powers, with particular reference to the eligibility and incompatibility of the magistrates. In conclusion, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us proceed with courage and a long vision and, from this point of view, allow me to add to what has been mentioned above, in addition to the appreciation for the action taken to bring to an early conclusion the great unfinished public works which for years have been the testimony of the irresponsibility of all, rulers and opponents. I suggest the launch of a significant house floor, not necessarily of new buildings, to respond to the hundreds of thousands of families living in discomfort due to the absence of a decent dwelling and to make a definitive and non-altering decision on the bridge of Messina, which must be realized, and without which the South, Calabria and Sicily remain separate territories, in fact, from the development that, although slowly, is starting again in the rest of the country. President Renzi, come on, look forward and far away. We're at your side. You and your government have our trust. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD and Senator Mancuso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u30	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we in the Italian Left will vote in favour of motions of mistrust because you, Mr Renzi, do not deserve any kind of trust, and not just for the latest interceptions or the investigation. I, unlike many, live that land and several times I have invited you to verify what was happening to you, but obviously my calls have been unheard. You, then, have an idea of democracy that is, to say the least, nineteenth century. The counter-reform of work and the constitutional counter-reform are the emblem of what I say and I, as a Lucanian and as a metal worker, can afford to tell you. She destroyed the world of work, destroyed work as a social good, as a primary good. President Renzi, on the subject of democracy, you are ruling with half the votes that the anti-trivel referendum has reached (16 million votes, 14 million yes): the votes that the Democratic Party took in the 2013 elections are 8.6 million and also with an electoral program called Italy. Good common, which she has transformed into Italy well for a few intimate and powerful. You must explain politically, and not with bar sport talk, where - I admit - you are a phenomenon, why in Basilicata 80% of national oil is extracted and unemployment is at 14%. One in two Basilicata youth is unemployed; 3,000 young people a year are forced to leave their homeland. I remind you that in Basilicata 85,000 barrels of oil are extracted on average per day, not to mention gas. The only thing you brought us was the increase in cancer. President Renzi, we in Basilicata have many excellences, beyond what we have seen in recent days on TV and also his statements. And I invite you to reflect when you talk about four committees and nice company. The Basilicata has some excellences and, if you like, list them all, starting from the Aglianico del Vulture, an exceptional wine, mineral waters, of which we are rich, not to mention Matera, capital of culture. And I could list so many more, but it would take a long time. And I'm sorry to make you smile. I can assure you that the people of Lucano are very welcoming and kind, which makes the welcome, honesty and availability its added values. But I would also like to remind you and this Assembly that history shows us that Basilicata is capable of defending its land as few, not least by reaching the quorum at the anti-trivel referendum: Basilicata is, in fact, the only region in which quorum was obtained. But I would also like to remind you of Scanzano Jonico's fight against nuclear waste in 2003; the battle of Rapolla to defend the territory from the trellis of high tension and, last but not least, the spring of Melfi, the battle waged by workers for dignity and democracy in the workplace, which you punctually seek to destroy. It is these reflections that I bring to the attention of this House and, since I am not used to doing trials in this House - those are the responsibility of the judiciary - I invite you to really check what is going on in the places where oil is extracted - so that each of us can make our own idea without having to add anything else - to verify what state they are in. Only if you have the will to understand what is happening in those territories can you really understand what we are talking about. But, I see the interest of this policy, which increasingly shows that it does not have the will to deal with these speeches, so that the only thing that remains to be done to the oppositions - always in a correct way and never disrespecting anyone - is to make known with force what happens in those territories. The results are not told by me, but are before everyone's eyes: oil is extracted in Basilicata for twenty years and that Region is perhaps the poorest in Italy. The reflection that comes to be done, then, is the following: if the only thing that increases in Basilicata is the number of diseases, there will be a reason; if 3,000 young people, on a region of 550,000 inhabitants, leave without returning, there will be a reason. Well, who, if not politics, must give an answer? Politics, then, returns to politics, is able to do so. Personally, I don't think you're capable of politics, but you're good at doing something else. That is why he will always have our distrust. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Mangili]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u33	Mr President, the first thought that comes to mind is that perhaps we could do without these motions of mistrust today, with all the respect I have for this democratic instrument which is a right place in our institutional system. I have heard an illustration of the motions of mistrust, which seem to me to be very ineffective, lacking in political structure. It seems to me that they are yet another act of weakness of the oppositions that have exploited and seized an episode, a half-slide to exploit a topic and to overshadow conflicts of interest absolutely non-existent. For us in the People's Area it is certainly an important appointment to reaffirm, with awareness, conscience and responsibility, our support for this Government, which we believe has done well and raised our nation, taking a path, although slow, certainly virtuous and positive. We firmly affirm that, within the Government, we have certainly not played a part as a compressive or mere government partners; we have certainly affected with our ideas, with our proactive capacity, with our planning in the reforms that have characterized the Renzi Government. We have given this government coalition loyalty and planning; we have inspired many of the reforms, and we are certainly proud of that. We have helped to give a connotation to this coalition, initially formed by different souls difficult to reconcile on the political level, but, thanks to our pragmatism and our capacity for mediation - obviously together with friends of the PD - we have managed to transform from Coalition Government, precisely, to Government of National Salvation, with President Letta and President Berlusconi, to Government of Reforms, which has programming capacity and has finally given answers to Italians. And we are absolutely proud of that. Today, unfortunately, there is not much talk of politics. The next meeting in which there will be a confrontation and also a political clash is certainly that of October, the constitutional reform, and in anticipation I can advise the opposition to make a maximum effort to convince the Italians that we, in this Senate Chamber and in the Commissions, have worked against the interests of Italy and the Italians. If that is the case, then President Renzi we no longer need to be distrusted, because we will self-confidence and go home with our own feet. Surely we do not hope so, so the two years of government that remain must be exploited to the maximum in order to give a new impulse and to lay the foundations in order to definitively relaunch the future development of our Country. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to a problem that we all feel and I am pleased that Senator Buemi, who preceded me, has already highlighted this: we have the need, President Renzi, to unify this nation, which is divided into two: we have a North and a South that go completely different in traction. To unify the nation all the attentions that have been put by this Government on Bagnoli, on the ILVA of Taranto and on the land of fires, are well the attentions placed on productive investments with the instruments of facilitated finance or tax reliefs. However, we need an important and decisive infrastructure plan that puts the construction of the bridge on the Strait of Messina in the first place. The bridge over the Strait of Messina is not a work that unites two coasts: it is a work that makes functional and enhances the Sicilian platform and the southern crossroads on the logistic level. We have surpassed, with this Government, several Old Communist ideological taboos such as Article 18, the IMU on the first house and everything that has caused stomachache to the maximalist left. Let's get past this old environmentalist taboo too! [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u34	Please, Senator, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u35	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). It is a decisive political act in order to contribute to the revival of the South and to give a European dimension to the Mezzogiorno of Italy. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u36	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u37	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who fortunately always follow us from outside, distrusting this Government has become a due act for the country, which certainly deserves better than a gang of businessmen like you! It is not normal what we have seen the Commission do in the last year. And I would just like to say something about what happened in the area of defence: it is not normal for us to learn about foreign and defence policy decisions not so much from the government, not so much from the national press, but even from the US newspapers. Is it possible that Italy's position in Libya and military interventions, direct or indirect, have told us about them in the "Wall Street Journal"? Thanks to this newspaper, citizens have learned of the use of Sigonella's military base to send US armed drones to Libya. President Renzi, Sigonella is in Sicily, Italy, and not in the United States of America! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Thanks to Italian newspapers, on the other hand, it has been known that Italian special agents were sent to that country in a number that reveals rather the preparation for a war. It is not normal that in the mystery all authorisations and extensions of concessions remain to the United States and NATO forces of use of the Italian military bases for activities whose nature remains under silence. I remind you, Mr Renzi, that MUOS is located in Niscemi, Sicily, Italy and not in the United States of America. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is possible that we do not have the right, as Italians, to know how our territory is used and what risk do we run? Someone warned us that in the base of the Air Force of Pantelleria - always in Sicily, Italy and not in the United States of America, where we of the 5 Star Movement have been able to see directly, through a simple inspection visit - is hosted a large number of American military, whose presence and activities are wrapped in the absolute mystery. Has anyone been concerned to warn us that nuclear weapons are being held in the military base of Ghedi in Brescia, Mr Renzi, who is in Lombardy, Italy, and not in the United States of America? As you know, the Americans are also the masters there, despite the fact that the use and production of nuclear weapons is prohibited in our country. Has the population been informed of the risk involved? It is not normal to be in a situation of constant violation of laws and almost even proud of it. Famous are then the statements of Minister Pinotti on the sale of weapon systems to Saudi Arabia. Only for those deserved an immediately executive eviction from Via 20 September. It is not normal that Pinotti, in the margins of a conference, defined the supply of Italian bombs to Saudi Arabia as "regular and in compliance with the law." Regular and in compliance with the law? Minister, are you kidding us? Saudi Arabia is a country that punctually violates human rights, is in conflict with Yemen and most likely also supports ISIS militias. But let's continue, if that's not enough. It's not normal that, as soon as a prosecutor investigates, he'll come up with everything about all the departments. In these weeks judicial investigations carried out with a wealth of details on all the media have uncovered the pandora vase and have found without reasonable doubt, if ever there were any, what the real face of this Government is, that is, a cluster of lobbyists who, together with members of the institutions, has put on a system of do ut des able to assure them convergent advantages. The investigation of the Public Prosecutor of Potenza concerning some concessions for the port of Augusta in the province of Syracuse - in Sicily, Italy and not in the United States of America, Renzi - is at least scandalous. Now we understand how some people have administered the Armed Forces and squandered public money (purchases, ways of using expensive weapons, interests pursued), as well as the profile of some senior officers and part of Minister Pinotti's entourage, an entourage to which we absolutely do not want to give up, probably because it is also in line with his interests. In fact, it does not remove Admiral De Giorgi who, in the company of other sinister characters (such as Gemelli, the companion of the former Minister; Valter Pastena - signs, Mr. Renzi - head of the defense budget office and consultant of the Ministry for Economic Development, and the facilitator Nicola Colicchi), is now investigated for all possible crimes against the public administration, including association to criminals, trafficking of influence and abuse of office. And if the file of accusations on Admiral De Giorgi, also received to the same Ministry of Defense, truth be told, is also accused of flawed, given his very personal use of the assets of the Defense. Let's remember some: parties on the ships, aircraft used as taxi also for its ladies of company, economic resources employed for crazy expenses like white horses, luxury cabins and anything else in endowment to the Navy of which still today, and I emphasize still today, is chief of staff. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And you, Mr. Renzi, along with your Minister Pinotti, keep it there. Who knows why you are so fond of this character that, among other things, he has also reached the retirement age and, indeed, you want to extend his role. What else does this man have to do to be held reprehensible by you? He doesn't spend your money, but ours, and it's money you spend to pay for your parties! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Speaking of money, Mr. Renzi, it is not normal that, from what we have learned in recent days, the plan of almost 6 billion euros for the renewal of the naval fleet, so dear to De Giorgi, is a more serious issue than it appeared: not by chance the only ones who opposed it are us of the 5 Star Movement. It seemed impossible, yet this Government and Minister Pinotti always manage to get lower than expected. It even seems that you have distorted the cards to persuade Parliament to approve this megaplan of renewal. Listen, colleagues, this is about falsifying cards. Do we realize that? It is not normal that you have presented us with partial documents and distorted information about the true nature and size of the program. There has been talk of economic and dual-use naval units, which should have been used for humanitarian aid and civil protection. And, in light of what is happening in these days in the Sicilian Canal, you need to put your hand on your conscience. The cost estimates are also distorted, because it is not normal for you to have indicated expenditure below what you then envisaged in the contracts concluded after Parliament's ok. To put it briefly, it is shameful! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But what idea of state do you have? How do you plan to handle public affairs? You're just good at filling your pockets. [[Comments from the PD Group]] and to leave only a few crumbs to the Italians. It is not normal for this Government not even to be able to give the Italians who need a citizenship income. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is not normal, Minister Pinotti, that this whole affair, accompanied by the interceptions of De Giorgi, raises no doubts, but certainties, also on the White Paper of Defense, which you have so much praised. It is now almost a certainty: this book is the fruit of the interests of corrupt politicians, industrial lobbyists and military. This is no longer a normal country and you have a great deal of responsibility, because what happens in it is not enough for you. Even your ironic smile, Mr. Renzi, is indecent. While in Germany a minister has resigned for a copied thesis, or in Iceland a Premier puts his mandate back - think well - only for a few tens of thousands of euros that is part of the scandal of the "Panama Papers," you, here, what do you do? EXPOSED Stefano (PD). What are you talking about? Shut up! SANTANGELO (M5S). All these filthy things aren't enough, because you're attached to those damn chairs. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]] and this does not bring dignity to this country and not even to yourselves. It is not normal, Mr. Renzi, in the eyes of any citizen who, with honesty, wants to change this country. And I quote only one sentence from a dear friend of mine - from a dear friend of ours - who left us a few days ago: it is not normal, in the eyes of a common citizen who, with his work and his (few) means, tries, without any public or private contribution, perhaps deceiving himself, sometimes even wrong, to improve the society in which he lives. President Renzi, at his inauguration I called her the Wanna Marchi of politics. Unfortunately for the Italians, time has proved us right. Believe me - and I say this without controversy - you have tired us. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] She's tired of us. President Renzi, just one last tip: take your four rags [[Comments from the PD Group]] Gather your entire government gang and get out. Get out! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]] CARDINALI (PD). You go outside! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u38	Mr President, I note that in this House, for the umpteenth time, the will is to make yet another public hole in the water. For this distrust, in fact, there are no numbers. And, if we remove that veil of hypocrisy, which frames so many scenes and a language more suitable for certain other sites than in this House, we all know that the numbers are not there. And many of those who accuse other parties of "poltronism" are the first to be attached to that chair, for obvious reasons. But the reason isn't just that. Even if there were numbers, a distrust placed so would change nothing, for the simple fact that replacing people with others, not changing methods, objectives and contents, does not change anything at all. This is probably not the ideal Executive, the ideal Government. The reforms and implementing decrees of this Government could be done much better. Let us ask ourselves, however, also because: often there has been an opposition that, instead of going into the substance of the discussions and, therefore, to propose in a constructive and improving way, has done everything to transform reforms into non-reform, to have results that perhaps have displeased more people than they could please. I think it's time to end it with a piece slogan, with unproven and unfounded instrumental accusations, because they don't lead to anything. That's all we need. We need to change our goals, strategy and methods, so that we can also understand the merits and intentions of others. This government has given itself deadlines and I think it is right to give him confidence and wait for the results within those deadlines, without anticipating them. And I add, for the many polemics that have been made, that I prefer by far a country where fathers become famous for the facts of children to one where children become famous for fathers, because that means that the country gives everyone the chance to evolve and improve. I think that this government, beyond all mistakes, has shown a desire for change and to make. There is another reason why I will not vote for mistrust: I do not see credible alternatives, I do not see a better alternative proposal, but I see only the worst and a basic mischief that does not prefigure anything good. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u40	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss a motion of distrust which starts with a particular fact and then, of course, as the Government, goes with the general. On the so-called Red Tempa amendment, we share and confirm everything that Senator Malan has already said brilliantly in the course of the explanation of the motion. This famous amendment had entered and exited Italy and then - repetita iuvant - arrived also in the law of stability (of course it was destiny). What Senator Malan said fills everything our Group thinks about that point. A distrust of the government, however, is also presented on many other things. As the time is short, Senator Lucio Malan made his presentation and I will devote myself to other. Why the government's distrust? We believe that the government, and in particular you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are hurting for our country. What and how many are the themes? There are so many of them, and now we'll see them. When it comes to the government of one country, there are so many pieces of a puzzle that are all together and are stuck with each other: the data on the economy involves those on employment and of course those on poverty. Why aren't things going? This government not only does nothing good, but also makes situations worse. I'll give you some examples. The figures for the first three months of this year on migrants and immigration indicate a plus 56%, i.e. they continue to increase. The numbers have no political color: we can take the data from one institution or from another, but you will certainly not have the courage to deny that they are on the increase, because otherwise it means that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, really live in the building and I would be sorry for that. Just walk through the Italian cities, which are - believe me - great parking lots of despair, which are becoming great residences of despair, because the refugees arrive here and no longer leave. Plus 56 percent in the first three months of the year. You told us about the success of the relocations. We know we're talking about a few hundred. Now, he has another great idea and another great project for Europe. We hear so many words, but we see no facts, not even with regard to migrants. But the problem is not just immigration, of course. Immigration is a mirror that reveals that this government favours chronic assistance - migrants come and live here thanks to chronic assistance - and does nothing against crime and security. The data that arrives, in fact, all say that maybe there are also terrorist infiltrations among all arrivals. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you should not underestimate this issue, but you should be concerned about it, and not just about it, of course. The OECD said that, in the other 34 countries in the area, employment is now at pre-crisis levels. It's about 66 percent. What is the figure for Italy? 56.5%. I'll give you a figure, if you have missed that, too. Only Greece does worse than us, only Greece in those 34 countries. We, however, argue that employment is fine, because we have done the famous jobs act. There are 74,000 fewer jobs and contracts than in the previous month. More than a job act, President Renzi, this is a flops act! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami]] She, who likes jokes, says it's a flops act, not a jobs act. [[Senator Santini's comments.]] Even from this point of view nothing is done! Why don't we do anything? You don't do anything because the economy doesn't start. You promised us that the tax burden would fall. Do you want us to argue about these numbers, too? The tax burden is 43.5%, among the highest in Europe. Shall we discuss this? It is another fact on which you do not intervene and for which you deserve to be distrusted by the Government. The economy does not start and there are entrepreneurs, even in the supposedly rich North-East from which I come, who commit suicide. You promised that all the debts of the public administration would be paid. And the word debt means something. This did not happen either. Unfortunately, I fear that the small savers, the four banks and the famous decree save banks will also end up the same. They were promised that all and everything would be reimbursed, and possibly immediately. Even there, there is nothing concrete. You climb on mirrors. It has been said: "We will repay. Wait. Now we'll make the decree and then we'll see. There, too, nothing. And the two issues proceed together. Unemployment is among the highest in Europe, with figures rising this month. As for employment, only Greece is doing worse than us, because the economy is not going, because the tax burden is very high. And I forgot to say, unfortunately - it seems that the Government forgets - that the Forza Italia Group tabled a motion ten days ago on pensions. Even INPS data is not good when we are told that 63% of pensions are below EUR 750? Is that also a fact that doesn't matter? We can, in fact, pretend to close our eyes and not look reality in the face. You would like us to come to this House and tell you that everything is okay. Instead, since I am Italian and love my country, I am concerned about what happens. Are you not concerned when the INPS informs you that 63% of pensions are below EUR 750? She gets her back up and smiles. But it's not just about pensions. The tax wedge is 49 percent, the fourth in Europe. President Renzi, the lines do not solve the problems. The government's distrust is a serious fact. I've brought back a few issues that aren't right, but there are many more. Then, as time is limited, I must also make a political passage, but first I ask you: what are you doing about the numbers? Nothing. You have presented yourself as the new one, but it gives me the impression that you are the old, the old policy. Of course, he encounters difficulties, as happened a few days ago, in the course of a vote of confidence in his Government. You know you have a trust record. Since your measures would not otherwise pass, you raise the question of trust. And I have to turn to this side of the Chamber too, because people who have been elected by the votes of our voters vote for that trust. You say that if they don't vote for trust, everyone goes home and closes. And then we present the motions of distrust, because we have so many to hold on to. Of course, you are based on this majority. You reminded us, when we called you an abusive Premier, that the Constitution allows it; do you want us to not know? We know that very well, but I ask you, who is a new man who does politics with an open face: wouldn't you rather have been elected by the Italians? Wouldn't you have preferred it, when in 2013 the center-left voters plotted that cross thinking they had Bersani as Premier? I talked about the center-left voters, not ours. You, in fact, have the majority, albeit abusive, because it is based on our votes, not those of the left, not those of the 5 Star Movement: it is based on the votes of the center-right. It's an abusive majority. Wouldn't you have preferred your name on that card? Then it would not be abusive; then it would be the President of the Council chosen by the Italians, who instead voted Bersani. So you put trust, you make downward mediations between the various currents of the company, which you have to keep together. His problem, however, is that he must not only keep the company together, but also the votes of those who have been elected with the center-right. There are renegade measures that are of no use to Italians, but which are useful only to you, to the Government to stay where you are, to change the electoral law and to approve a constitutional reform with a majority that represents 30% of the votes outside Parliament. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I invite you to go around the streets, to listen to the Italians. I am not happy when I see that it turns and there are disputes with the President of the Italian Council, because I like the dialectic, I like to face me with an open face in a serene way. You, President Renzi, take the trust here in this way: it represents about 28 or - if it goes well - 30 percent obtained by the Democratic Party according to all the polls; to these votes you add 2-2.5 percent of all the small Groups that support it. I don't think it's right to do everything he does, to do the evil of the country and the Italians with a majority of this kind. I'm sure you'd be much happier to have been elected, but you were nominated, unlike us. We are not fooling ourselves, you will also gain the confidence of this House today, but I can assure you that you have long since received the distrust of the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senators Bignami, Candiani and Cappelletti.]] They'll prove it to him in the local elections and the referendum. You have also underestimated the 15 million Italians who went to vote in the last referendum; they will show it to you during the consultation on constitutional reforms and I hope that you will keep, as decent people, the word given: lose and go home. He shuts her down and the Italians get rid of her. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u41	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u42	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, in preparing my speech, I have reread the motions of mistrust; after a few days, celebrated - with the known outcome - the referendum, how far away from the reality and the true needs of our country and our citizens today. The taste of instrumentality and presupposition, evident from the first moment, has acquired further accentuation. This Government is working, and well, to change Italy and relaunch investments, economy and employment and we are lingering, as today, in a sterile ritual that no positive contribution makes in this direction. Let's keep to the facts, let's analyze them with the common sense of Manzoni's memory. A judicial investigation is being carried out by my city's attorney's office. While working, hopefully quickly, to ascertain the truth and reach judgment, a Minister of the Government, not only not investigated but today defined by the same investigators as an injured party, an unconscious instrument, for reasons of opportunity - and I rightly say - resigns. I repeat: not investigated. The amendment we are debating, then, is right, of course, sacrosanct, but it is not overruled and it is not even objectionable - unless the Constitution is to be overturned - by the judicial authority. It simply states that, if strategic and of public utility is the realization of the Oil Center to extract oil, such must also be the infrastructures of completion, the collectors in order to transport hydrocarbons to Taranto (or someone prefers that they operate tankers and trucks along the already insufficient road of the Mezzogiorno?) and storage works in the port of Taranto. This is entirely consistent with a vision which I share and which will have to be further developed in the coming years, particularly in the Mezzogiorno. Mr President, recent data from SVIMEZ finally predict a positive growth for the country of 0.8% and I hope it will be higher. The breakdown by geographical area becomes +1 per cent for the central-sevent regions and +0.1 per cent for the South; therefore the gap increases and does not decrease. Reversing this trend must be an ambitious challenge for your government, which, like you, always accepts ambitious challenges. There is no growth - as you said recently too - if they do not resume public and private investments (Senator Quagliariello, there were infrastructure and private investments); it is an ancient economic theory, if you want, but that never loses actuality, today even more so. A recent ANCE research showed that the sector has risen from EUR 37 billion in investment in 2004 to EUR 18 billion in 2013. The bet, in part already won (the same ANCE finally expects an increase in 2016), is to increase the expenditure until the end of the legislature. This is done through laws and amendments that unblock the encrusted process of some works (and the amendment in question goes exactly in this direction), and through the overall legislation to norm and simplify the sector, give certainty to the operators: this is the case of the procurement code, recently completely reformed with the legislative decree approved by the Council of Ministers. I have read - and it makes you smile a little - in one of the motions signed by my colleagues that we must introduce the débat publique, as asked also by an inattentive President of the Region. Well, both of them, and for the latter it is a little more serious, have not noticed that this Government and this Parliament have already done so in January, approving the delegation law on the code, a fundamental institution to acquire the propaedeutic consent of the citizens, but that it will work only on one condition: that then, after having long debated, once the decision has been taken, the work is realized and the will of the country, of the State in this case, is respected. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] And this is where we return to the amendment. Too often bureaucracy, apparatus and local politics, especially but not only in the South, block works through vetoes, or sometimes worse, through behavior from real Ghino di Tacco. The objective law, which was passed and repealed by the new code, contained a positive forecast, namely that 30% of strategic works should fall back into the Mezzogiorno. Well, moving from programmed to realized, this percentage has fallen to 10%. That is why the central state must be given more strength to overcome local pastries. Some people will complain - and they did so with a clear answer they had last Sunday - that oil is not a strategic resource, and that therefore the infrastructures dedicated to it are not; others have tried to paint this Government as an inattentive on the renewables front: still, in both cases, exploitations and pretexts. Today Italy produces 39 percent of its energy from renewables, and here - for the love of Homeland - I do not dwell on another recurring paradox. The same ones who oppose the extractions, then they say that the wind farms disfigure the landscape, the photovoltaic fields are ugly, the solar panels ruin the roofs [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] , of regasifiers not even talking about it, let alone nuclear. 39 percent, I said, well beyond the wishes of the 20-20-20 objective which - I am witnessing this by participating in all the COPs on climate change during the previous legislature - seemed impossible to grasp. And with 8% of solar requirements, we are number one in Europe. Mr President, how many ironies have foreign colleagues been making over us in recent years, pointing out that Germany produced solar energy more than Italy, the country of the sun? Today this is no longer the case, thanks to the progress made in technology, innovation and resource engineering, the flagship of our country. But as much as these percentages may increase, it is not today and not even tomorrow's near target of 100% renewables. So, having rightly abandoned coal and not wanting to be fracking, we will still need oil extractions. It would be suicidal, to use a Prodi expression, not to extract oil by having it, and then buy it abroad. I'm gonna finish. I am not convinced by the approach from leghism to the encounter that I too many times echo around, even in my Region: what a nasty representation given here, caricature and false, of my Region by fellow Lucan senators. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] Years ago, fortunately now much less, it was said: The taxes remain in the regions where you pay them.Today you hear: "Oil is of my region" - or worse - "of my municipality" - under my feet, and I decide what to do. Almost, to say, paraphrasing an ancient motto: The oil is mine and I manage it. It's profoundly wrong. Energy policy is the most eminently national and resources are of the country and not of a country. In fact, we have written it correctly in the reform of the Constitution. I limit myself to this by not referring to the distortions that can occur when a small community and its leaders feel invested in absolute authority and decision-making power in such a delicate matter. The whole theme remains open - we saw it also with the result of the last referendum in my region - to win the challenge still not won for twenty-five years - Senator Barozzino, will it be Renzi's fault if for twenty-five years we can not win it in Basilicata? [[Applause from the PD Group]] - how to combine and hold together abstractions and economic growth, development and employment, always having as a milestone the protection of health and the environment through the most rigorous and effective possible controls. On health terrorism is being made because the objective IRCCS data says something else. Another paradoxical aspect of the motions is to stigmatize that an amendment to a legislative measure, deemed inadmissible in a branch of Parliament (I have also heard it from Senators Marin and Maran), is adopted in another measure and from another branch of Parliament: it is the normal dynamics of bicameralism and it is surprising that you complain about it that you want to preserve it; while we want to change it, we have changed it and we will change it definitively with the consent of the citizens in the autumn referendum. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is another figure of this Government, which understandably opposers and detractors do not want to recognize, but it is in fact and disowning or pretending in fact the reality is defiant exercise and, in the end, useless: this Government, this President-in-Office of the Council do what they say. No one, even in here, really believed that we would reform this branch of Parliament: we did so, just as the government reformed with the jobs act, RAI, civil unions, the procurement code, and I could continue for a long time. It has restored confidence and spending capacity to the most suffering classes with the provision of EUR 80. It has abolished the tax on the first house, another measure expected from the citizens. I could go on, but I'm gonna go finish. They talk and talk about concrete facts, not instrumental polemics. And facts like numbers are stubborn arguments and then, President, move on. Today the Senate will reject the motion of distrust and give it more strength: use it as it has done so far with the ambition and determination that are in its nature and go ahead to govern the country and make better the life of Italians. This is the very meaning and the ultimate goal of our policymaking. President, I will conclude with Seneca that I love as much as I ever love others. Luck doesn't exist: there is a time when talent meets the occasion. She's talented. This is the moment and this is the opportunity to change Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Buemi scent and from the benches of the Government. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u43	The debate is closed. He asked the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u44	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, in more than two hours of debate we have listened to profoundly different tones and considerations. If, on the one hand and on the other, we have tried to honour a high debate, such as that concerning the motion of no confidence in the Government by bringing arguments and elements, in other speeches it has expired in the insult and I believe that, before any intervention, solidarity must be brought on behalf of me and the Government, in particular, to those journalists who have been insulted, being deprived of their power to sue politicians who in this House have said things simply unspeakable to them. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] However, I think that we need to get to the substance of the debate and to do so I tried to extrapolate five points, very different from each other, which were expressed by the two motions of distrust. I'll synthesize them like this. First of all, there is a motion of distrust, that of the center-right and of Forza Italia, which emphasizes with great force, as Senators Malan and Marin did, the total inadequacy of this Government. In short, it says: "Go home to the government because it did not do what it had to do" and I will respond, to honor the debate, essentially only to this and trying to restrain the characteristics most related to the jokes and the polemics. Second point: there is still one element in the motion of Forza Italia which, alongside the manifest inability of the Government, poses the problem of political morality. The theme of morality, morality and moralism in politics is always slippery, but I accept the challenge of responding to the issue of political morality of a government which - as expressed in the motion - is based on the vote of presumed refugees. There is a third point, and I come to the motion tabled by the 5 Star Movement (the third, the fourth and the fifth points concern matters more related to the investigation, investigations and considerations related to the event of Potenza. Even if Senator Petrocelli, in his introduction, pointed out that for him the fact is exquisitely political, in the motion we speak expressly of some questions related to the investigation and I believe it is my duty to answer on the substance). The third point, I said, is related to the investigation. Can this investigation undermine the transparency - as Senator Mario Mauro later called it during the debate - of this Executive? The fourth point fully concerns the energy question and the choice of which industrial policy to have, particularly in the Mezzogiorno and Basilicata, linked to oil extraction and, more generally, to the investigation we are discussing. Finally, the fifth is a matter of merit on the procedures for parliamentary procedure and on the relationship between Parliament, the Government and, above all, the judiciary, of which I believe we can discuss for a long time, but on which I make totally my own the considerations of Senator Albertini. I will conclude with a political consideration of the work of this House and the two years ahead. You will allow me not to dwell on any consideration that has been extrapolated from the subject of discussion by those who have spoken about something else, as if this were the place where everyone can bring a topic to their liking: there are motions and I will address the theme that the motions have put to our attention. I start from the first consideration and I address, in particular, you, Mr President, and through you to the Senators of Forza Italia: Senator Malan, Senator Marin and Senator Paolo Romani in his capacity as Leader. This government would clearly be incapable of achieving what it was called for... CASTALDI (M5S). That's a call! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. ...and for which he requested a vote of confidence. I believe - Senator Romani, I address you in your capacity as the Parent Company - that it is legitimate that you do not agree with the measures, but that it is impossible - I appeal to your intellectual honesty - to deny that those subjects which had been put at the heart of the programmatic action have been successfully addressed from the point of view of the parliamentary outcome, by this Parliament and by this Government. I am referring specifically to the constitutional reform, on which, moreover, your Group, in the early stages, expressed a positive opinion, except then - quite legitimately - to change its opinion for well-known events independent of the merit of the reform. I am referring to the electoral law, on which it is clear that this Parliament and this Senate may have different views, but which has finally seen the legislative body re-appropriate a function that the Constitutional Court's judgment had essentially removed from it. I am referring to the tax measures, which are probably not enough for some, which are wrong for others, but which have seen in rapid succession: the intervention of 10 billion euros for 10 million Italians through the IRPEF bonus of 80 euros; the intervention on the IMU and the TASI related to the first house; the intervention on the agricultural IMU and IRAP and the intervention, which today is put in the background, of the cancellation of the IRAP component on the cost of work, which was a topic historically discussed, for years, in the parliamentary debate and also in the relations between Confindustria and trade unions. Everyone, in a unanimous way, supported the need not to burden the entrepreneur who wanted to create jobs of a sort of additional gabella, as had been done - I must say, to be honest - by an experience of center-left and then maintained by the governments of center-right. This type of activity has led today to final legislative measures. True, on the subject of constitutional reform we are waiting for the path that will lead to the referendum, and so the last word will be citizens, as we have had the opportunity to say on more than one occasion, but the fact is that this Government had obligations to Parliament, on the basis of the vote of confidence in the first speech made right here, even in a slightly provocative tone - I admit that - so I acknowledge Senator Buemi of the correctness of his sentence when he says that I do not have a refined parliamentary diplomacy - where I myself in this Chamber said that I hoped that it would be the last time the Senate of the Republic gave confidence to the Government. So we can either share the merit of the measures, but there is no one in this House, from the far left to the far right, who can deny that those measures have become law today. There are others, of course, the debate has highlighted them: from the civil responsibility of the magistrates to the reform of the public administration, to the good school, on which there is a strong dissent, not only in this House but in some cases also within the country - I do not want to deny it - to the issue of international cooperation. Moreover, the many measures - which have not been concluded in this case - linked to the third sector, which, in my personal experience, I am particularly attached to. So this Parliament is doing what it has undertaken to do, and this Government is fulfilling its commitments with Parliament. You may disagree, but you cannot deny this fact. "But the results do not arrive": so Senator Marin has expressed himself, citing some figures simply wrong; I say it without any controversy, also because I do not think it is the fundamental object of the discussion, but I want it to remain in the acts. The number of landings in this country has increased from 23.838 to 25.285: we are in the order of 4-5 percent more. Of course we are concerned about this, we are careful, but we are far from 57 percent; I guarantee you, Senator Marin, that there is a difference between 5 and 57 percent. In the same way, I want to tell Senator Marin that jobs act numbers are not numbers on which there can be misunderstandings. You mentioned the INPS. I quote the latest data from the INPS, even those of this morning, which mark a slowdown in the new assumptions but, to be clear and to remain on the figures of today and three days ago, the INPS reports two very simple data: the first is that in 2015 there were 911,000 contracts, net of terminations and new recruitments, for an indefinite period more [[Comments of Senator Marin]] With the aid and with the incentive that no one denies, also because, Senator Marin - I want to tell you with the respect I owe you - we voted for that incentive; we wanted it and we are very proud that this has helped entrepreneurs to hire and that it has put people in a position to work today. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] This is in fact one of the issues on which - Senator Mancuso would have said - we have found a great agreement within the coalition that leads this country, and we regret that someone has pulled back from this commitment because, as you said, everything that creates work makes Italy and the Italians happy. However, let us try to imagine, as you said, that we are in the presence of a flop act, using a definition, of which moreover - I do not want to disappoint you - copyright belongs to the group leader of your Group in the House, as a large part of the motion, judging of the expressions that are used. Let us look at the figures for unemployment, to which she referred. I am not talking about the percentages, which have gone from 13.2 to below 12% - and I think any Italian can be happy with this - but, looking at the INPS data, so that he can have no doubts about this, about the numbers of unemployment applications, and not about the previous period when there was the full incentive: we are talking about the unemployment figures of 2016, because he must remain in the act on this single point as the accusation against labour market reform is instrumental. In February 2016, 105,654 unemployment applications were registered. That's a lot, but it's 22.7 percent less than in February 2015. Senator Marin is too many, we all have to work together so that demand for unemployment comes to an ever lower level, but the fact that February 2016 compared to February 2015 marks a -22 percent (and in February 2015 there were incentives that were reduced from 100 to 40 percent) is a sign that something moves. I would add: if we look at the two months, February and March, unemployment applications are 254,194, or -28,6 percent. I say this - and I put it on the numbers - because on this first point there is full awareness that the accusation that is being made to this Executive of total and manifest inadequacy, as the motion of Forza Italia writes, can of course be reflected in a given subjective (each one can have his own assessment), but finds an evident and striking contradiction with reality: in these two years we have done what we had to do. Then we will have to do it more, we will have to do it better and with even more intensity, but the first element on which I would like to respond is essentially that and it is of merit. I would add (not to be taken as a polemic) that if labour market reform had been done, as Gerhard Schröder's Germany did, in the years between 2003 and 2005, things would probably be different. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups. Comments of Senator Gasparri]] I'm sure Senator Gasparri will have a chance to intervene later, and in his traditional respect, he will let me finish talking. We have checked with Minister Padoan the numbers of debt relative to GDP under this Government, to be respectful of the parliamentary debate and to be simply attentive to the numbers and not to get lost in pindarian flights: well, since we are here, the debt - very high compared to GDP - is between 132.4 and 132.7 percent. We are talking about the period between 2014, 2015 and now. Of course, it's a very impressive number. I want to say to Senator Marin, who said that our country is increasing its debt (I am talking about debt on GDP): I remind you that between 2008 and 2011 - it will not be hard to remember what the government was ruling at that time - the debt on GDP has gone from 102 to 116 percent, and then grow further - because I like to remember it - between 2011 and 2014, from 116 to 132 percent. These are the numbers and the facts. The rest is useful for an external communication, to which I will then come in the final conclusion. The second point is that there is talk of political morality and political morality is basically interpreted in saying that - and in the course of the debate you will be able, if necessary, to change or clarify my thinking - you cannot govern a country without a direct mandate or relying on a parliamentary consensus that is not the child of direct candidacy. And on this point, of course, not so much political morality is at stake, but, I believe, the Italian Constitution and the rules of parliamentary play. I believe that the guardians and defenders of the Constitution either always are or cannot be every other day. In a few months (you have all remembered this) we will be going to a major debate on the Constitution where some of you will defend the Constitution as it is, strongly supporting the risk of a centralization of powers in the President-in-Office of the Council. I do not want to resume here a debate already held both in the Senate and in the House, namely that this argument is manifestly unfounded because the powers of the President of the Council are not changed, unlike the constitutional reform approved by Parliament and then rejected by the citizens in 2006. But if we want to take this criticism seriously, we must be consistent to the end: the system which you defend (and which remains in force), is what provides for parliamentary centrality and parliamentary centrality, because of Article 67 of the Constitution and the prohibition of mandatory mandate, allows Members and senators to make their own assessments. Either this is always worth, or it never is. CASTALDI (M5S). To the nominations! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. Senator Malan expressed in his speech a reference to 2011. Senator Malan, you said 2011 was the last year the government had full legitimacy. I would like to point out to you that, in the face of a fracture in the deployment of which you are part and of a deep division which took place in December 2010, that Government already in 2011 was based on the consent of MPs and senators, which you might call transfugees but which in the parliamentary passage, totally constitutionally legitimate to respond to the accusation of political immorality, went from the center-left to the center-right, supporting the Berlusconi Government. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] I'm just remembering the facts. [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u45	Quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u46	Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. Mr President, I continue quietly because having taken a vow of tranquility and serenity I will return to the individual points even if the rudeness should continue to interrupt, offering a bad service to students who think that the Senate is a place of beauty and democracy. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups. Comments from the M5S Group.]] AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Berlusconi was elected! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. We come to the year 2013. Senator Paolo Romani, but how do you write in a motion that there is a problem of political morality when the scheme of government that is being replicated today, in a different way, was the basis of your support for the experience of the Letta Government, which failed not by virtue of a judgement of the Executive led by my predecessor but by a procedural dynamics linked to your head of party. Your change of judgment with respect to the Letta Government was not a result of a political judgment on the Letta Government but of the fact that you chose to take away his trust by virtue of a procedural case of President Berlusconi. How can you challenge the friends of NCD first and then the friends of A-LA, who supported the path of constitutional reforms that you yourself had imagined, to simply remain faithful to a pact to which you too had attached yourself and from which you failed not for demands of political morality but for very correct assessments of opportunities? You have changed your mind, not the others, and you will have to answer to your people for this. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] The third point of discussion is the issue of justice. I am for justice always, not for the executioners. I believe in courts, not tribals. I respect the judgments of the judges, not the veils that violate the secret investigation. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] When I say that we are on the side of the judiciary and we invite the judiciary to go to judgment, we are not accusing the judiciary: we are respecting the Italian Constitution on which we have sworn and it is good that Parliament is aware of this position of the Government. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] This country has known figures of hero judges who have lost their lives in the fight against the mafia, against camorra, against corruption and against lawlessness. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] But this country has also known in the last twenty-five years, pages of authentic barbarism linked to justiceism. A guarantee notice, a procedural instrument to protect the suspect, has been a final media judgment for over twenty years. Lives of decent people, and I repeat good people... AIROLA (M5S). No way! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. ...they were destroyed while the delinquents had their gain in the demagogic and populist attitude of those who made the whole grass a bundle. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] And today I say, before this House, that the notice of guarantee is never a condemnation and I say to the Councillor of the 5 Stars of Livorno that we will not ask for his resignation because he has been investigated because we believe in the Constitution and believe in the trials that are done in the classrooms. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and AL-A (MpA).]] I claim in this Chamber, looking into the eyes of the lovers of one-way justiceism, that those who are guilty and those who are not guilty are decided following a procedural process, with the guarantees that come from a country that gave birth to Beccaria. Law codes count, not software codes to decide who's guilty. [[Applause from Senator Buemi]] And if I'm to be judged, I'm judged by judges with sentences, not blogs with a password. [[Comments of Senator Taverna]] The power lies in the courts. To recall the judges' judgments means to offer the extreme service we render to the separation of powers. I say this to Senator Quagliariello, of whom I was struck by the resounding superficiality, which I did not expect from him, compared to the issue of the sentences. It is said that the judgment comes and passes to judgment. We hope that the judgments of the Potenza judiciary can finally be issued at first, second and third instance. We have done so in unsuspecting times, when one of us, who has spoken today in this House and to whom my gratitude goes, Senator Margiotta [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and AL-A (MpA) Groups]] He had the behavior of an extraordinary civilization, resigning from his parliamentary group, so as not to tarnish, in the light of what was happening in the external debate. Senator Margiotta, awaiting the sentence, was found innocent. As long as there is this Constitutional Charter - and on this point we will defend it with our nails and teeth - dear Senator Quagliariello, the sentences are the ones that pass into judgment. It is not unfortunate to have said that they never go to judgment; the 2001 investigations, the 2004 investigations and the 2008 investigations will not have a conclusion with a judgment passed in court. Mr Capelletti (M5S). They're all prescribed! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. I, as a citizen, am sad about this, because I, as a citizen, think that when a magistrate is put in a position to work, he must be helped and accompanied by support and not criticism. But when you do not get to judgment and you simply imagine that you condemn people on the basis of the communications given to the newspapers, at that precise moment I stand on the side of justice, against justiceism, that only makes victims and that does not help the country. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and AL-A (MpA).]] I want to say something about this point and I say it, Senator Paolo Romani, with the respect I owe you, waiting to see, with curiosity, if you vote the motion of the senators of the 5 Star Movement, that - as Senator Repetti explained very well - contains exactly the opposite of everything you have said in these years (but you can always change your mind). I want to say one thing: there is no doubt, here and out of here, that the Potenza affair for us is not a closed affair. VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP.For the judiciary too it is not closed! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. I'm trying to say it very well. It is not that, after the referendum, you can put a lid on that matter. We hope that the magistrates of Potenza will be quickly placed in a position to complete the investigation. Do you know first of all out of respect for whom? Not already and not just out of respect for the suspects. I would point out, for the superficiality with which some senators have spoken, which I do not even want to mention, that there is no possibility of corruption that concerns this Government. [[Ironic comments from the M5S Group]] I believe that the only possibility of criminal proceedings that will arise from this matter will be the one on which we will call you to respond to the defamation of the Democratic Party and on which I hope that you citizens will renounce parliamentary immunity. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Senator Repetti]] There we will see who will be condemned and who will not. But I want to say one thing: there are 400 people who, from tomorrow, will be in the Cassa Integrazione and are the employees of the ENI of Viggiano. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] There are thousands of people... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u47	Quiet! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. When they are done with their screams, we will return to the harsh truth of the facts and it will be a pleasure for them to move to concreteness, after so many discussions made for those who are out of here. There are 400 people going to the Social Security Fund tomorrow in Viggiano. CATALFO (M5S). Because of you! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. There are thousands of people at risk of work in Basilicata, and I want to tell some Senator of the area that if there hadn't been a sacrosanct battle of some of us in defense of Fiat Chrysler, there would be a lot more today in Melfi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u48	[[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups) and Senator Repetti.]] And an ideological battle cannot suffice to explain that, if there is a future for this country, it is an industrial future, not a future from Disneyland services, and I will like to see how you will vote on these passages of the motion. But I want to tell you one thing: the judges must speak with the sentences and we will wait for them, we will encourage them and we will be on their side. But the sentences must come soon, because we want to know who is responsible, we want to know who is guilty, we want to know who is stealing, because the difference between those who say they steal everyone and those who say "give me names" is exactly the same difference between those who don't want anyone guilty, shooting in the pile and thinking of taking consent, and who instead thinks that justice is a serious thing. AIROLA (M5S). Read the wiretapping! [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. I think everyone has his favorite sports: his is to read the interceptions, mine is to respect the Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE).]] You see, it's the same difference between interpreting politics as a service, as a great service, and interpreting politics as a large server. [[Laughter]] It's a big difference, but it's a difference that they can only understand with time, because taking it all together could be difficult. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] There is a fourth point, which concerns energy and industrial policies. I am beginning to conclude, Mr. President of the Senate. CRIMI (M5S). Hello! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. The debate on motions has touched only on the question of what industrial policy to have for the Mezzogiorno. I would like to stress here what the energy and industrial policy of this Government is. Today that the referendum has ended and today that seems to be lacking attention on these issues, today it is necessary to give new light to the issues of environmental energy development and industrial policy of this country. For these reasons, in two days' time, I will be in New York, with the other Heads of State and Government, signing the binding commitment of the Paris Conference. We think coal-fired power stations should be shut down. NUGNES (M5S). Twelve new incinerators! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. We have closed two, we have announced the closure of a third and we have explained that on two others, for which the previous programmes provided for conversion from oil to coal, we have put a stop. With ENEL, therefore, we block five power stations in this parliamentary term, without losing a job, because ENEL has undertaken to retrain all the workers and workers of those realities. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are leaders in renewables, and I would like to be clear on that. The system of incentives, which helped in the previous twenty years, had limits, which concerned all constitutional forces. The incentives have been given without creating an industrial supply chain in the sector (great topic, which we could discuss for a long time) and are now becoming less and less necessary, because the idea of renewable alternative energy is being affirmed as a profound value, which works in many cases even without incentives, i.e. without weighing on the balance of payments and especially on the bill of citizens. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes]] The idea that the incentives spring under the cabbage is not really true; the incentives are paid by Italians with an energy bill that is tending to be higher than that of other countries. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] So on renewables we have achieved the 2020 targets, we will be able to be the leaders in the path towards the 2030 targets and we will move forward with great determination and conviction. We have the theme of building efficiency. Those who made the mayor know that one of the most beautiful experiences that can happen to them is not only to connect the sewers with a collector to a purifier. In fact, we talk a lot about the environment, but then we forget that the real way to defend our sea is to create the conditions to make the purifiers and - as we know very well that we did the mayors - to put the sewers in a position to be connected to a purifier. [[Applause from the PD Group]] As I said, there is the theme of building efficiency. There is no point in continuing commercial discussions if you do not put in place a policy to make buildings more energy efficient. One of the most beautiful experiences, as mayor, was that of popular residential building (ERP), made with the highest energy efficiency levels. There are former mayors in this House who have had very interesting experiences. Then there is the crucial theme of electric columns for private electric mobility. We have about 2,000 electric columns; if we don't get to 20,000, we're not credible. There is the theme of the total renewal of public transport. Every year we have 50 million trips on the Arrows, and many of you are frequenters. They work well. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Then there are 550 million trips made on commuter trains. And already there problems begin to grow. Then there are 3.5 billion trips a year made on the local public transport network, with all too often outdated means. Therefore, if we want to affirm the need for a paradigm change in this sector, we must put aside the anti-industrial culture that has permeated a part of the ruling class of this country, especially of the Mezzogiorno, and that has seen the destruction, over the years, of some extraordinarily strong and effective realities. At the same time, the experience of some regions in the North, particularly Trentino-Alto Adige, the Provinces of Bolzano and Trento, but not only those, is a reference point for environmental sustainability and economic growth. This is the great theme that, as a government, we are trying to pursue. And this is the fourth issue, which is sometimes absent from this debate, probably taken more from the need to speak outside, from the cameras, than from the need to address the issue on the substance, and which I think is absolutely crucial. Finally, I conclude with the question of parliamentary procedure: the famous amendment on Tempa Rossa. Senator Malan, you have supported in this House, as has unfortunately happened to many journalists and politicians in the talk shows, a thesis that is neither in heaven nor on earth. This amendment was discussed in the Senate. And I'm sorry to be the one to tell you that. I do not go into the substance of the claim for that amendment. I do not do this because there are public interviews of mine, done between June and September, in which I explain the strategicity of Tempa Rossa, which then you may not share. In this case, I acknowledge to the 5 Star Movement that I have always been against the merits. But with the same frankness, you must acknowledge to us that we have always asked for this amendment to be brought in. That's what we said all over the place. What's the point? Yes, it is true that it has come to the conclusion of the House's parliamentary work, but this amendment has been discussed in the Commission. And I'll tell you more, Senator Malan: without your knowledge, you've also been subjugated. As a result, how can one say, by a Senator of the Republic, that this amendment has not been discussed? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Because you didn't discuss it in this House! D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). We voted against. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. The fact that you voted against is absolutely legitimate. None of us want to question that you voted against. But the fact that this has been discussed and that it has been discussed in depth in the Commission removes the central question of whether it is an amendment adopted at night! The Befana comes at night! The amendments are discussed, and if anyone is against them, they are worth the same! [[Applause from the PD Group]] If anyone is against it, but there is a majority, as the parliamentary regulations that she should know state, the amendment passes. CRIMI (M5S). Go tell the magistrates. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. But I'm on the subject. Senator Santangelo said he sometimes wants to live in a normal country. If someone had turned on the television while he was speaking, the doubt that this is not a normal country could have arisen. [[Senator Santangelo's comments. Applause from the PD Group.]] Even the fact that he insists on interrupting is proof that there is no desire to get to the substance. I demand here, in this House, the interventions that the Government is making in order to unblock public and private works. I would point out to Senator Quagliariello, for the umpteenth time, that there would be no distinction if it were Total rather than ENI, because in both cases it is private interventions. Public intervention is a road. Whether it's ENI or Total, it's a private intervention. Of course, ENI has a public share of the Italian State, while Total has it of the French State: it is always public, from the point of view of the shareholding. But that is a private investment, which we have intended to unlock, as we have intended to unlock the Expo; as we claim the Commissariat of the Mose; as we intended to do for the Variante di Valico, for the Salerno-Reggio Calabria and for the Quadrilatero. We believe that this country needs to unlock investment. Minister Delrio just handed me the municipal unblocking forecast. Taking away, thanks to your work, Senators, the Stability Pact for Mayors has a leverage effect of at least EUR 4 billion [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] These are public interventions that are made within our municipalities, by our administrators and here we claim them. If it is a sin, or if you want a crime (in fact, if it is a sin, we will return to the crime in a moment); if you consider it a sin to try to unblock Italy, accuse us of this sin. If you consider it a crime, check the penal code, because the crime isn't there. In any case, it must be very clear to everyone that in the formation of the parliamentary procedure we are obviously listening to everyone. [[Comments]] AIROLA (M5S). But then do what you want. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. Yeah, then we'll do it. Thank you, Senator, for that is exactly the case. We all listen and then we do. That means you've got your spine straight. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] This means being politicians and politicians; this means being able to govern interests. In addition, we respond to what we do freely and openly, using an expression that is also very dear to those of us who love Dante and Farinata. The other day at the International Furniture Fair in Milan I met the president of the Snaidero. I would like to make a public confession in Parliament. We presented the law of stability (Minister Padoan and I signed it) in which the so-called mobile bonus for young couples, which had been requested by the trade associations (Albertini had definitive words about this), was set at a limit of 8,000 or 10,000 euros, I don't remember. The trade associations told us that we were wrong, because we were going on too low a level; we had to reach at least 16,000 euros when they asked for it to be 20,000 euros. Well, I believe that we have set it at EUR 16,000 if I am not mistaken. This is the democratic exercise: taking the considerations that come from the world out of here, evaluating them in science and conscience on the basis of public interest and expressing an evaluation. Does that mean listening to the lobby? We are the government that has put the DAC in a position to function. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You are the Parliament that has increased the penalties on corruption, which has introduced environmental crimes, which has made interventions that define the children of lobbyists cannot even manage those who live in Hyperuranium. These are the five themes on which I owed you an answer of merit on time, having listened to the debate and having read the motions. Of course, I lost some momentum at the beginning of the debate. In fact, Mr Di Maio and Mr Salvini had explained in the newspapers and in the talk shows that this motion would pass, so I arrived with a mixture of tremor and also of interest, but Senator Centinario immediately turned off my emotion by intervening in this House saying: calmly, this does not pass; it will be the next one, that of the referendum. We are now used to hearing that it will not be this one but the next. We'll wait patiently for the next one, but in the meantime, I'd like to make a proposal. For the umpteenth time try to send us home not convinced either you do, but obviously for two reasons: either because you like to lose (but I don't think because nobody likes it), or because you think you play your political activity like this, using the Senate as the sounding board for what is out, using the motion of distrust, not as a parliamentary instrument, but as a flag to be waved in the talk shows and to explain that you have submitted a motion of distrust, then when everyone is discussed they express themselves on a topic at will and, from MUOS to the snacks of Basilicata, we talk about everything but not about the Government. This attitude is entirely legitimate and it is not up to me to ask you to change it, because I believe in respect and democratic play. But I think I must tell you with extreme frankness, for the esteem and respect I bring to the President of the Senate and to all of you, that talk, media, social media are not Italy. I hope you have noticed this with the last referendum; I hope you have noticed it in every step: it is not the polls that are more or less agitated, before use. We politicians too often live in a big, gigantic bubble of self-referentiality. 5,000-10,000 people, the workers (very often the workers of the works), imagine that certain themes have great interest, while the people who are at home at this time would have preferred the Senate to discuss how to change the school building, how to invest in the disaster, how to work on the issues of merit. NUGNES (M5S). And citizenship income! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development. They would prefer that finally, even in a secular, free confrontation, between majority and opposition, interventions could be made to improve working conditions. This led to a referendum which ended the motion in both motions. Senator Paolo Romani, that this was done by others you can see, because the conclusion of the motion of Forza Italia says the exact opposite of what you admirably explained in an interview on "Il Foglio", evidently took the folder of the motion of the House. Next time we'll be quieter if you take yours. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is how the demand for mistrust is born, aimed only at echoing out of here, and this is how a speech is born in this House that winks at those who are outside, but who do not look at the substance of the problem. I believe that Italy is elsewhere. Senator Buemi, you called me back to the refined parliamentary dialectic, looking for an impossible mission with me. I dissimulate quite well, but I am a great admirer of some speakers in the parliamentary debate. There is a great MP, a Leader, who in the eighties ended his speech saying: "Politics is elsewhere, we will wait for you there." I think that's the same thing we have to say today. Politics is to respect those who govern, not to scream constantly, making a constructive opposition, preparing to govern the next time, respecting - which we have tried to do with the Nazarene covenant - and not delegitimizing one another. Italy is elsewhere, politics is elsewhere; when you're done with your TV scenes, we'll wait for you there. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Misto, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and AL-A (MpA). Numerous Senators of the PD Group stand up. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u49	We shall now proceed to the vote on motions of no confidence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u52	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I want to take advantage of this motion of mistrust to shed light on at least three points that I consider important. The first: between 2011 and 2014 the mortality rate in Corleto Perticara increased by 23 percent; it is higher than the regional rate by 73 percent. Numbers, these, developed by the Medici for the environment of the ISDE. Corleto is located four kilometers as the crow flies from the center of Tempa Rossa, which ended up in the eye of the criminal and political cyclone. In the Province of Potenza the rate of hospitalization for malignant tumor in males from zero to fourteen years has grown by 48 percent. Even the cancer register, which should be an important source of data, as far as Basilicata is concerned, has not yet been accredited: why all this? The second point, which I think is more important: the anti-mafia raid on the management and disposal of special waste from ENI oil wells and transported to the disposal plant of Pisticci's Tecnoparco, has seen more than thirty warranty notices. The Lucan Senator of the 5 Star Movement, Vito Rosario Petrocelli, today was very angry; he promised many months ago an environmental Nuremberg in Basilicata. On the other hand, on the occasion of the visit of the Senate Industry Commission, to the plants of ENI and Tecnoparco, in June 2014, he stated that: "ENI reassures us about the oil reinjection", "talking to ENI was positive, the position of the Movement in this matter is clear." I would need to understand more clearly what is clear, since in a statement by Giorgio Santoriello, about Senator Grillino, we read: Its silences and the lack of complaints posthumous to the above mentioned surveys, which know of runways despite the qualification of geologist of the senator himself, instead nothing, low-headed and silent as always. Her head's only up in here. In Tecnoparco Valbasento works, as environmental manager, safety and quality, the chemist Maria Teresa Adamo, wife of Senator Petrocelli. And he concludes: isn't it a clear conflict of interests of Senator Vito Rosario Petrocelli? I come to the third and final point: the lieutenant of the provincial police of Potenza, Giuseppe Di Bello, and the Lucan radicals, in January 2010, self-financed independent analyses to shed light on the state of pollution of some invaded in Basilicata. For this reason, Lieutenant Di Bello suffered a conviction in first and second degree, to be then acquitted of all charges in cassation. But he was not acquitted of Grillo and Casaleggio. Strong of its celebrity it rids all other candidates to the 5 Star Movement's online regionals. At this point he claims to have been contacted first by Senator Petrocelli and then by Grillo himself, who, in a rude way, warns him that he must take a step back. "There I wake up from the dream," says Di Bello, "I understand that the 5 Star Movement is only a marketing product, it does not serve to change the country." So, who cares about protecting the health of the citizens of Basilicata if majority on the one hand and opposition on the other do not seem so far away in the way they operate? I hope not only we at ISDE. For the moment I am pleased with the resignation of Minister Guidi and I hope that the Government will take advantage of this yet another scandal to show that its commitment to corruption is not only in words but also in deeds. That is why we in Italy say no to these motions of mistrust. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u55	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President of the Senate, thank you for the attention this House has given to the Government and you have witnessed so well in the regular debate. As you can see, however, we do not have the same treatment from the government. I would like to reassure the government: this is not a courtroom. There's nothing to be afraid of here. We already have enough to do in dealing with the many political issues that arise also from judicial events that do not have time and energy to overlap with the activities of the judiciary. I value and judge the political responsibility linked to whether or not actions and proposals are appropriate and not anything else. Of course, I reassure the President-in-Office of the Council, Matteo Renzi, who has been able to note that, within this motion of distrust, even if only the tones, which we did not share, but which, for the supreme value of the unity of the centre-right, we have accepted, throw this action into ridicule and, above all, revive in the smiles of Paolo Romani the Nazarene pact that exists and struggle with you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which has gone away. You're leaving because you're sure of that. Then we will see it also in the numbers related to the votes on the motions of distrust how tranquility can be guaranteed by a karst and creeping pact of the Nazarene, which is still one of the dramatic elements that weakens and softens the activity of serious and responsible opposition, like that carried out by the Group of Conservatives and Reformers, that precisely for that matter came out from Forza Italia, and from the colleagues of the League who, together, in honesty, transparency and truth, consider themselves alternatives to this majority and to this Government. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]] 7.35 p.m. (Following BONFRISCO). Don't worry, Mr President-in-Office, even on another point: we are not here to accept your licenses of solidarity or respect for journalists, because you have been attacked by very authoritative journalists, who denounce your attempt to gag important television broadcasts to anesthetize the public debate, as you did so well in the referendum on drilling. But we are here to briefly retrace the most important points of the so-called Red Tempa affair, which are dangerously intertwined with matters of national importance. You are right, President-in-Office of the Council, that there is no longer any such thing. If the Minister for relations with Parliament goes away, then we are very much on the sidelines, for a government which, as you can see, cannot even compete with its Parliament, let alone with all the others. It is, in fact, of national importance - and President Renzi is right - the energy policy of the country-system, but also the activities of the lobby and these personal events that are heavily interwoven with such important economic initiatives. From journalistic sources we have learned of meetings held at the Ministry of Economic Development directly with representatives of Total. I would like for a moment to recall - and I would also like to stress this - that Total is a foreign private subject and certainly not public or Italian as, for example, ENI. But those meetings were obviously aimed at studying a legislative path that would facilitate the mining activity of the French company, which obviously moved on the basis of profit logic, in some cases even speculative, because saving money on securing those wells and decommissioning, as it is defined, means speculation, while absolving the legal burdens concerning royalty on the materials to be extracted. This is very close to the citizens of Basilicata, because part of their development also depends on it. The Government decides to extend the qualification of strategic works also to those necessary for the transport, the storage, the transfer of hydrocarbons in refinery, the ancillary works, the coastal terminals and the harbour and instrumental infrastructures, also far from the deposit, subjecting them to the regime of authorization unique for works of strategic type. But the strategy for the development of energy policy has at its centre the sites where it takes place; transport works and logistics are not necessarily the same. But to block all opposition from the local authorities the second paragraph of the amendment incriminated has stood up; the unblocking Italy, in fact, previews that, as strategic, also on those works the final decision belongs to the Government. The green light arrives December 19, 2015, four months ago, then. Who signs that text? Mr Guidi signed it, but then a sub-amendment was tabled by the rapporteur. This is where Renzi can remember that the Senate worked on that text: he knew it, because it is the rapporteur who even changes the condition of the binding opinion of the Minister of the Environment with a simple "hearing"; translated, it means that there is a strategic work that has a strong environmental impact and you know what the novelty is? That we consider the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment only a "feeling" and not a binding opinion. This is precisely the style of the President-in-Office of the Council, who is also the Secretary of the Democratic Party and who today is also the Minister of Economic Development: even the ministries responsible for matters are bypassed and every decision is taken to Palazzo Chigi. Few who manage everything and, as we have seen, not always in transparency. The key issue in this affair, at least as far as Parliament is concerned (what we care about) is precisely that legislative process. Many senators - and you, President Calderoli - will remember how me and better than me the night the law of stability was voted in a rush, at the first light of dawn, because it was necessary to make room, from a temporal point of view, for another very important law, daughter of the Nazarene covenant. That electoral law that was to be framed at 6.40 a.m. in the morning, but only after having voted on a law of stability that was passed by a majority with confidence on a text, a maxi amendment, that - we all remember - threw into embarrassment Deputy Minister Morando for paragraphs that did not correspond to the text, wrong numbers, flying pages. It seemed like a comedy movie, and instead it was a tragic night in which, due to the clever incardination of an electoral law that was to organize an electoral scam against the Italians, that law of stability, ignored by 90% of the senators, was voted with that beautiful amendment inside. An amendment that, after the tragic outcome of what happened to the House - that text is declared inadmissible, but in the meantime it had already been submeditated - and the PD Holding Company itself disowns it in its content, despite being signed by a member of the Government, the Undersecretary Vicari (who is not there at this time, but I am sure there will be), authoritative member of this majority, who had the whole title to sign that text. All this, in our opinion, casts a disturbing shadow on the Government in relation to that institutional duty of care and safeguard of the public interest, of protection of the territory and of national development, which is what must be dearest to the Italian citizens. We all know the conclusion of this affair. The President-in-Office of the Council - I shall conclude, Mr Calderoli - has Minister Guidi discharged at the speed of light, as he always does with the Ministers who are involved or affected by investigations. After forcing Minister Guidi to resign, he invokes to himself the paternity of that amendment, saying it was his. At this point the logic says: if Minister Guidi had to resign, perhaps it is more appropriate than ever for Prime Minister Renzi to resign, if that text was his own. Without in any way confusing Parliament's role with the ongoing investigations, it seems necessary for us to check the chain of decisions: this is our precise duty. That is why the Group of Reformist Conservatives, on the proposal of Senator Di Maggio, considers it necessary to set up a parliamentary committee that sheds light on that particular chain of decisions, to guarantee the supreme public interest and to guarantee that point of balance between the development that we must pursue and chase, between energy policy and the protection of the health of citizens and territories. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, this whole affair has produced at least the acceleration of the debate on the draft law that finally regulates the representation of interests to the public decision-makers, but be careful not to make the patch worse than the hole. The mix of judicial events under media pressure and the debate on the referendum are likely to pollute a peaceful debate on the subject. That referendum - and I shall indeed conclude, Mr President - has seen, on the one hand, the protection of the environment, on the other hand, the protection of a pseudo-energy policy that is not there. There is no government action; there is no government action in that DEF that is judged so negatively by all international observers (but positively only by the friends of the President of the Council); it is not in the current action of the Government and above all it is not in the future of our country. That is why it is worth voting on this motion of no confidence. [[Applause from the CoR Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u58	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I think that Dr Renzi, when he came to this House to ask that the Senate should respect the policy pursued by his Executive, said something right. However, I also think that respect is achieved when one is respectful of the interlocutor. The interlocutor at this moment is the Senate of the Republic, composed of senators elected by Italian citizens who do not deserve the forty-minute pippone that we sat down by Dr. Renzi, who, after forty minutes of pippone, together with all his followers has abandoned the cracks. For those who do not see it, in fact, once again in this House we intervene without any Minister of the Republic to listen to us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini]] There is an important motion of distrust, promoted by a large part of the Senate, certainly not the majority because we do not have the majority (we have already talked about it), but I think that the respect that Dr. Renzi has just mentioned is necessary. The same respect that Dr Renzi did not have, if you remember, during the first passage of the constitutional reform, when the suppression or the fake suppression of the Senate of the Republic was discussed in this Chamber and he was beautiful to watch football matches; the same respect that he did not have in the interviews, when, with regard to senators, in a haughty way, he always spoke of people who were present in the Chamber or participated in the Parliamentary debate only for the chair. I therefore think that what needs to be reminded of this President-in-Office of the Council is that a little respect for the interlocutor is necessary. But, alas, let us speak to this President-in-Office of the Council who does not exist. Next time I'll bring a card from the President of the Council, and when he decides to leave, we'll put a fake President of the Council, a doll, a fat man on duty, so at least it looks like someone's listening to us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The president, Dr. Renzi, spoke of data. When it comes to data, in fact, it is necessary to be precise. So when we talk about immigration, a relevant topic on which there is an important debate in this country, we must remind Dr. Renzi how things stand: Frontex tells us that in March 2015 there were 2,283 arrivals and in March 2016 there were 9,600. It's not the same thing, it's not the same as the previous year. Alas, Dr. Renzi is unfortunately a little uninformed: even when we talk about work we know very well that nothing or very little has been done to increase the employment rate in our country. The rate of people working in Italy is among the last of those in the advanced countries, with only 58.8% against an average of 66.5% in the advanced countries. We are at the bottom of the ranking, we are increasingly at the bottom, despite the fake "reformette" that unfortunately have been approved, that Dr. Renzi and some of his friends like and serve to fill some pages of newspaper and to send the MPs of the Democratic Party in those talks shows so opposed by our President Renzi. Let us remind President Renzi that the youth unemployment rate is still above 40%. I remind the President of the Council when the Democratic Party, during the Berlusconi Government, came out with a series of posters all over Italy with written: Youth unemployment at 29 per cent: Berlusconi quit. And what do we have to say here? 40 per cent youth unemployment: Renzi fired? No! We tell him: go home that maybe it's better, for all those young people who are here waiting for his transhumance. Dr. Renzi told us - and we listened carefully to him, contrary to him, that with his visins, when we were talking to him, he seemed to think of anything else - a fantastic world, an Italy that sees him: an Italy that starts again, an Italy that comes out of the tunnel, an Italy in which the Italians benefit from all these beautiful reforms, reforms and reforms that this President of the Council and his Executive have done for them. So I wonder, maybe it's me, talking to those four people on the social networks that Mr. Renzi says about? To Mr. Renzi we remind that he is used to talking only with tweets, in one hundred and forty characters and that to the one hundred and forty-one character he struggles to express an accomplished thought. But we remember this between us, because he doesn't care to listen to us, since he left to play with his friends. Let's remind Dr. Renzi and his friends what the teachers of this fantastic world he's talking about think about, about that face-to-face contest that's killing school and precarious teachers. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]] Let's remind Dr. Renzi and his friends what the Forces of Order think, daily in front of Montecitorio to protest. But he comes in from a side entrance, so he doesn't even notice the people protesting. Let's remind Dr. Renzi and his friends what they think - and we ask them - the men of the Forest Corps of the State, also killed for the fake reforms and the fake savings that were to be carried out by Mr. Renzi. We ask what the pensioners think of this beautiful Italy that Mr. Renzi told us: they benefit from his reforms, they benefit from the money that Mrs. Fornero stole from him and that he does not want to give them back? Let us remember and ask ourselves what young people are thinking, forced to emigrate more and more. We export minds and we import dements that slaughter our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Let's ask ourselves, in this beautiful and beautiful Italy, what do the scams of the banks that are still waiting for that money that he promised him, and every week he says that, yes, they will come, they will come. Eh! They'll come, eventually they'll come! Let's think about what the tax-killed traders think, every year more and more expensive, they are lowered by Saracens and as a result more and more families in the street and more and more families around. Let's think about what local authorities think: he comes from local authorities and theoretically should have protected the municipalities and regions and instead not: cuts on cuts on cuts, with mayors who are obliged, thanks to his cuts, to increase local taxes and become a bit like the Sheriff of Nottingham. He makes the phenomenon promising the 80 euros to the right and left, in a little bit he will really promise them even if you have a kitten, a dog or a pony, while the Municipalities and the mayors are more and more at odds. Let's think about what sick people who suffer health cuts think. He keeps saying no, all the indicators tell us yes. Make a deal. The problem is that the regions continue to suffer cuts and consequently we have to cut on health care, but who cares, we live in a beautiful and beautiful Italy, the Italy of the white mill of the President of the Council! Let's think about what the relatives of all those victims think that thanks to his empty prisons, to the empty prisons that the President of the Council is doing with his friends, suffer the humiliation, as well as having been wronged, to see the so-called Cain outside, around to celebrate. Let's think about what the beaches or tourist seasons think. They too have made promises and then "hit" them, dear colleagues, forgotten them too. Then we talk about political morality, since it has made us another "fool" about political morality. In this regard we can say one thing, dear ghost Renzi that there is not, we have never changed our mind, contrary to others, we have not supported Monti, contrary to others, we have not supported Letta, unlike others, and we will never - alas for him - support a government chaired by this President-in-Office of the Council. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we will logically vote in favour of all the motions of distrust to this President of the Council and to this Government, as I said before the business committee that was given to politics, but I would remind you of one thing that has not yet arrived at the absent party (I repeat for those who listen to us that has not yet arrived): this Government sees the light at the end of the tunnel. I hope it is not the Gotthard tunnel, seen and considered that in geography as in English and how - alas - in many other matters this President of the Council must be postponed to study and should be postponed to September. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bonfrisco]] We send him back to October, so that the Italians finally botch him and send him home permanently. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u61	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, we are probably - and I would like to congratulate you - good students, because just now the President-in-Office of the Council said that politics is elsewhere and will therefore wait for us there. I thank Undersecretary Olivero and Undersecretary Pizzetti for being here to listen to me. The President of the Council and the Government, in their most august representative capacity, will meet elsewhere. We'll meet outside. I do not regret that they are not here to listen to us: the day is long and the time is such that we must also go on the news. So, I'm gonna go straight to the subject of the surgery. You see, Mr President and representatives of the Government, perhaps the referendum is not a popular duty and we have been reminded of it as very august and important figures of Italian political life, but we can certainly say, for our part, that the vote of confidence is a parliamentary prerogative. We are here to exercise our right-to-duty and we will give a vote that for the LAG Group, or for the Mixed Group - Gal as finally today most of the press has started calling our Group, will be exercised in very autonomous form, as you will see and as we will see. In fact, there will be colleagues like Senator D'Onghia, who is part of the government, and Senators Davico and Naccarato, who will vote for trust, others who will not and someone else who will abstain. Allow me to make some comments on the main assumption of why we are here, namely the vote of confidence, within the Mixed Group. That is why I am speaking. When the vote of confidence was thought of by the constituent Fathers - and Professor Compagna teaches us - it served, in accordance with Article 94 of the Constitution, to connect Parliament with the Government. The Government, appointed by the President of the Republic, was to receive confidence in a form of parliamentary democracy. In the same article it is said that, as the Government receives confidence, it can be removed. If the form is that of parliamentary democracy, it is clear that, if confidence is given, a motion of mistrust can also be voted on. Over time, as is often done in Italy, this has been not only abused, but also misrepresented and perhaps even misguided. Finally, for example, the fact that the substance of Article 94 of the Constitution has been misled is borne out by the question of trust, considering that the word "question" is not mentioned in the Constitution. The "question" is in fact a doctrinal derivation, which was used very little in the past. I am sorry that the President of the Council is not present, because when he refers to the fact that ours is a parliamentary democracy, we should also say that from 1994 to 1996 there has been a presidential transformation, on which many constitutionalists have discerned, so much so that the electoral law has changed and that, last, in 2008, the President of the Republic did not agree that there was a government other than that which no longer had the confidence of the Chambers and, after having made an institutional attempt, had the people voted, precisely according to the materiality of the Constitution, for which the existence of a direct investiture of the President of the Council was assumed. What is happening today, with a continuous imposition of the question of trust, is even more a recalled material novation of the Constitution, because the continuing imposition of the question of trust recalls those presidential governments, where the President has the possibility to make laws and Parliament has the possibility to vary the laws enacted by the Government. In this sense Parliament can do so without the exception of the government's will - simul stabunt, simul cadent - leading to a fall in Parliament. Today, however, the Government has accustomed us to the imposition of the question of trust, which is a material novation to which the Government refers. Then it cannot be said that the government is elected by Parliament and then at the same time recall the prerogatives that everywhere in doctrine are attributed to the presidential governments, which receive a popular investiture. With the continuing imposition of the question of trust, the Government determines a bipolarity of conduct in the relationship between Government and Parliament which finds us here, both on my part and on our part, to disagree absolutely with what is happening. We did not sign the motion, no one in the Group did, and many in the Group do not agree with the reasons behind the motion. We shall end up voting on it at this point - I am referring to those who will vote against it and not in favour of it - regardless of the position underlying the motion. So - since the verb used is "prescind" - we will do it, a bit decurtisianamente (by De Curtis), regardless. If we do not want to quote De Curtis and we want to quote something more auspicious, let us say that what happens in voting today a motion of mistrust under Article 94, different from what happens when the Government raises a question of trust, is a sort of counterappearance. The government today receives an evil contrary to the supposedly desired good. It constantly raises the question of confidence on measures that we may share, but, regardless of whether we share their content, we do not vote for confidence because otherwise we would support the Government. In this case, however, we do not share the basis on which the motion of distrust is based, but we end up voting against the Government regardless. Let's say that this is a really Babelic situation, so we can only say: poor Italy. If the Group's position of autonomy is declared at the time of the transition under the Presidency, we can safely say that the Government has nothing to do with the vote in this House. What is happening, as the Government has said a little arrogantly, is nothing more than a statement of principle: Parliament takes the opportunity, unable otherwise to do so on measures on which the Government raises the question of trust, to discuss government policy, but ends up giving this vote a meaning that is a mere affirmation of principle. Beginning and end? Yes, but the end - the Government is right and this is a thought shared by many - will only say the Italian people, when, perhaps soon, they will express the true and only sentence passed in judgment on the work of the Government. This is something that we do not judge at all that we can have our confidence. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u64	D'ANNA (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, after the President-in-Office's reply, I believe that there is little to add. I have heard, in the words of Matteo Renzi, echo concepts dear to Mino Martinazzoli and Benigno Zaccagnini and therefore I can only declare myself satisfied. And on the basis of what the President-in-Office of the Council has said, I also think that the subsequent debate, which, by parliamentary practice in the course of explanations of vote, must necessarily take place, is perhaps a pious one. I wonder why we're here. What are we discussing? Of a series of motions of distrust that took the brusqueness from a fact of chronicle, that is, from the publication of intercepts that, at first, seemed to involve Minister Guidi but that, subsequently, for clarification intervention of the judiciary, have unequivocally demonstrated that the minister Guidi was part injured and had not participated in that traffic of influence. This is also a crime that we invented in these classrooms, in order to allow certain politicized judiciary to put the cuffs on the unfortunate political turn. And we can only publicly grieve about this. There is therefore no presupposition that gave breath to the variegated orchestra of oppositions. And here we must affirm a principle without which we drift, a principle that is not the result of my intelligence but of the intelligence of a great philosopher like Hegel. The latter claimed that in the rule of law morale resides in the law. The State is a collective entity and cannot orient its own choices except through the laws that it enacts and to whose empire all citizens must subjugate. That's public ethics. In this nation, where politics has been rared and follows the march of public scandalism, where parliamentarians must undergo this involution and become mere spokesperson for citizens (apparently), Parliament is animated on the basis, not of issues pertaining to the government and the life of the nation, but under the "gossyparous" push of a press that, in many ways, is no longer interested in information but in scandalism, in making the cubital chain, in order to then flour the article of a series of illations, conjectures, of veils taken away from public prosecutors somewhat careless, but that continue not to pay the fiftieth of its own sloppyness. Therefore, the mud machine is fueled even more, the pretentious and captious machine of those who think they can follow the shortcut of eliminating the ruler on duty, the political opponent on duty, under the weight of the nefariousness that the judicial media circuit puts in the square. The morale of individuals, which is that series of behaviors and beliefs that belong to individuals, is exchanged and smuggled as public ethics. Right now, what are we supposed to distrust the government for? There is no vulnus, no harm to public ethics, because no member of the government has violated the law. What do we need to talk about? Of the bellyaches of those who today are forced to chase the gossip of those who exchange politics with the exercise of collecting dirty rags in the trash can? On what basis should we be absent from motions of distrust which have neither ethical motivation nor political motivation? Since we have nothing to seriously discuss, what Greek mythology tells us came to mind. Greek mythology tells us that Zeus hands over to his brothers Prometheus and Epimetheus (Prometheus in Greek means "the one he sees before" and Epimetheus means "the one he sees after") the task of distributing the powers that allow individuals on earth to survive chaos. Epimeteo makes such distribution to animals: he gives them instincts, claws, everything that can enable them to survive. He exhausts these prerogatives by forgetting men, so Prometheus (the one he sees before), to prevent the beasts that have been endowed with powers from devouring men, steals fire, because through fire man can defend himself from animals. But this is not enough because men are scattered anyway, are divided, are not organized and therefore protected from the evil of the beasts and the pitfalls of nature. Prometheus therefore steals the Techne policy, that is, the art of politics, that series of rules that allow man to live in society, to form a community, to build the State. Consequently, political technique is indispensable to govern a nation, a people, to obey the kaleidoscopic question, multifaceted that from a society of individuals can come to ensure civil coexistence. There has been no such thing in this House tonight. There have been more animalistic instincts, those of taunting the government to get rid of it, not to criticize it on measures or to oppose them with other proposals. Karl Popper warned us that democracy does not consist in knowing who to lead (the voters decide this); he argued that it is not important to know whether to command Calderoli or Renzi. The important thing is to know that democracy works because Calderoli or Renzi can be subjected to the most incessant criticism, because if there is no criticism there is the monopoly of ideas, there is the unique thought, there is the dictatorship. This principle of criticism must, however, be based on political techne, that is, on the principle that criticism moves within rules consistent with politics, not of evanescent and extemporaneous initiatives that serve nothing but to throw mud on those who must govern. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by apologizing perhaps for the pistol, that Senator Centinario will certainly not have liked it; at least I hope he has understood it. Today we have heard a President-in-Office of the Council who has had the courage and the attributes to distinguish between justice and justiceism; he has had the courage to say in this House what many idiots (from embaculus, man without stick, without character) repeat in the corridors; but above all he has shown that he is not an idiot. Idiot comes from the Greek and means isolated man, man who is out of reality, out of context; he was not an idiot: he fell into problems, he gave answers, he did it with courage and I don't think that there are more than a hundred idiots in here. [[Applause from the AL-A Group (MpA).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u67	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are faced with yet another recourse to the institution of the motion of distrust, this time towards the Government in its entirety. Well, one cannot fail to note the total absence of any real content and the absence of a cohesive deployment that can support them. It says a lot that oppositions have not even managed to agree on a common text. The only point of agreement of the opposition is, apparently, the desperate search for a majority in favour of the resignation of the government. It is, therefore, an exclusively destructive purpose, without the opposition being able to offer a valid alternative. Moreover, the accusations made to the Government as a whole are completely generic and pretentious. It is true that the former Minister for Economic Development Guidi has made a serious mistake, but it must also be acknowledged that he has resigned immediately and that the state has no criminal responsibility. The amendment included in the 2014 Stability Act, which is at the origin of the case, corresponds to a legitimate choice of the Government and, as such, was submitted and supported in Parliament. 20.16 (Follow ZELLER). Today's vote clearly also affects the relationship of trust that every parliamentary force has towards the Government. As a Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE we have no reason to contradict the majority pact with the Renzi Government. It is a government that, in our opinion, has done well by showing sensitivity to linguistic minorities and special autonomy. After a long period of stalemate during the previous governments of center-right and government Monti, with this We have finally managed to resolve many important issues for our autonomy. The Government must be given notice that it has significantly reduced the litigation between the State and the Regions, even ordinary, before the Constitutional Court which, under the previous Governments, had reached very worrying levels. We also share the positions that the Government has taken with regard to migration control policies. President Renzi was right to make concrete proposals for a common European immigration policy. It rightly opposes a Europe of national barriers and egoisms. He announced that he would not tolerate the violation of the Schengen rules which could arise, in particular, from the possible closure of the Brenner border. This government is implementing what it promised citizens at the time of its birth, an ambitious programme of profound economic and institutional reforms. In less than two years this government has managed to do so much, first of all to approve reforms of absolute importance, as is recognized in Europe and by the major international bodies and institutions. Who of us would have thought in 2014 that Renzi and this fragile majority - as it was at the beginning - would be able to give the country a new electoral law, to modernise the labour market, to significantly reduce labour taxes and to approve a constitutional reform and, therefore, to make the reforms expected for decades? It is worth remembering that only for these undoubted successes it was possible to benefit from the flexibility clauses that allowed Italy, with the help of Mario Draghi's targeted monetary policy, to restart and to emerge from the deepest crisis since the post-war period. Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, want to send a Premier home with these results without, however, having a credible alternative? We, as a Group for Autonomies, believe that citizens do not want to jump into the dark, chaos or elections right away. They want the Italian political class to continue with reforms and constructive work for the progress and well-being of the country. I believe that everyone knows that there is no parliamentary majority against this Government, so this motion of no confidence - rather than putting the Commission at risk - will also strengthen it. Today there will then be the second flop of the oppositions in just two days; this is also almost a record. As if the failure of last Sunday was not enough, where you tried to distort and exploit the popular referendum instrument for purposes that had nothing to do with the question put to the citizens. Citizens, on the other hand, know how to distinguish between those who exploit and scream and those who are willing to take responsibility for working for the good of the country. We do not share this irresponsible tendency to want to distrust the government every week. Let Renzi and his team work, because there's still so much to do. Then - in 2018 - the citizens will judge. For these reasons, the Group for Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will vote against the motions of mistrust presented. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u70	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, unlike old and new ascarios who have mocked those who exercised their right-duty to vote, we in the Italian Left want to thank those about 16 million voters who, despite the lies, misinformation and blackmail exercised with the fear of job losses, whose numbers have multiplied, as in the miracle of loaves and fishes, have gone to vote against the madness of drilling and for a new energy strategy based on clean and renewable energy, these yess can create many jobs. For this reason, even if the quorum has not been reached, that vote has not been useless at all and you will not be able to ignore it. However, it was also voted against the arrogance of a Head of Government who, more unique than rare, incites abstention. That is why the referendaries of political exploitation have been accused. But it is you, President-in-Office of the Council, who did this operation, putting yourself at the centre of the confrontation with the invitation to desert the ballot boxes, in order to turn the abstention, now attested to pathological levels for our democracy, into consensus, in fact betting on the erosion of participation and therefore of democracy. The 70-30 you spoke of clearly indicates this. Reclaiming that result as a success of yours you place yourself, in a dangerous twist, as a kind of leader of the silent and unvoting majority. As Diamanti clearly writes today in his analysis of the vote, it is disturbing that you, Renzi, see in abstention a resource, a source of political and personal consensus. But this, as we have repeated several times, is the road on which you have been on for a long time, trying to make the constitutional referendum a plebiscite and actually turning everything into a referendum on yourself, except the next administrative ones, happens. But, on the other hand, it is the transformation of our democratic system and the form of government that you have been pursuing for a long time and that is the substance of your constitutional revision: the Government of the Premier. This debate takes place with unusual delay on the presentation of motions of distrust and this was perhaps wanted to remove it from the referendum, because many voters would easily have done two plus two: they would have noticed the affinity between an amendment that gives Total and Shell the possibility to further devastate a city already folded by ILVA like Taranto - without any advantage, it is clear, for our country - and a rule that allows the same companies to save a billion euros by not dismantling the plants and platforms that, by now we know, at least half are inactive. And, as if that were not enough, keeping, with the tricks now well established, under the franchise, not even pouring royalty. You will certainly not have missed that the only Region in which the quorum was reached is the one where the Red Tempa scandal started: the Basilicata, the one that was to be the Texas of Italy. We could say that those who know the wonders of oil extraction would like to avoid them. The quorum has not been reached, but I do not think you have much reason to rejoice, and first of all because the law on endless concessions runs counter to Community law, as I pointed out in my complaint to the European Commission, and Italy will certainly be subject to infringement proceedings. Above all, you have no cause for satisfaction because, despite the 300 million thrown away to prevent the referendum from being merged with the administrative - you threw them - despite the blackmailing liar on the jobs and despite having wanted to bypass this debate too, 13.5 million Italians went to the polls to say yes to an energy policy opposed to what you do in practice and which is quite different from what is being publicly flagged, possibly abroad. To exalt alternative energies to make yourself beautiful on TV or in the jokes he has made today and, at the same time, to cut the funds for those same renewable energies is yet another scam. I remind you of what you have done with the so-called banquet incentives. In these weeks the investigation that has already forced former Minister Guidi to resign has not reduced at all. On the contrary, it appears even more serious today than it was a few weeks ago. The Vice President of Confindustria, the Undersecretary De Filippo, has been investigated; the seizure of the ENI plant in Viggiano has been confirmed. After the Chief of Staff of the Navy, Admiral De Giorgi, another Navy officer, Rear Admiral Berutti Bergotto, was also under investigation. It is certainly up to the judiciary to ascertain the criminal responsibilities and we, unlike you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, do not discover the guarantee today, and we have never used it depending on whether we were in the majority or in the opposition. In reality, what we want to emphasize today - and that is politically clear - is that around the infrastructure of Taranto and Augusta there was a group of strong interest, powerful relations within the Government; a group, indeed - to use the term used by the former minister Guidi - a clique of slymen who exercised all sorts of pressure to obtain the appointment - for example - of the man of trust as extraordinary commissioner of the port of Augusta. I repeat: it is not up to us to decide on any criminal liability. This is the task of the judiciary. It is, however, up to Parliament to judge what has emerged from this affair - and not just from this one - and is emerging from the point of view of political responsibility. From this point of view, political and not criminal, a definitive judgment is already possible today, indeed it is necessary. If we add this to the previous issue of the rescue of the more or less family banks and to the criteria by which the appointments are made, we are faced with a framework in which conflicts of interest proliferate. Laws are baked that directly affect the interests of close relatives; nominations are decided by the criterion of proximity with the President of the Council or with his circle. It is not easy to find as many examples in our history. It is certainly not a coincidence that, with a government in which conflicts of interest are so numerous and marked, the law that should resolve those conflicts, approved by the House and now under examination of the 1st Commission here in the Senate, is once again watered down, inadequate to deal with a problem that has been affecting Italian politics for decades. There are relatives and friends, but there are also, and even more so, the interests of power groups, which should be kept good. The ongoing investigation clearly reveals the feverish and incessant activity of the lobby, engaged in conditioning the choices of the Government to the benefit of their interests to the detriment of the public good and the interest of the citizens. This activity has been carried out by every means: exchange of favors, constant pressure to obtain the appointment of reliable and available friends in key places, private constraints made to assert by weight of gold. Even the left shadow of the files and blackmails has appeared. This would in itself be extremely disturbing. We all know that when lobbying reaches this extreme level of intensity, it is a sign that it knows that it can achieve its objectives. But the worst is that the lobbying effort corresponds to the government's extreme permeability. The very scandalous element is not that the oil mining companies lobby to make an amendment. What is truly shocking is that that amendment, which was considered inadmissible by the President of the Chamber's Environment Commission, then reappears, to say the least, in the law of stability in the Senate and is thus approved by a vote of confidence. The disturbing element is not that a clerk gets four in order to obtain the nomination of Alberto Cozzo as commissioner of the port of Augusta, but that the minister Delrio really appoints him. It is quite clear that we are here facing an overall attitude of the entire Government, and in particular of Palazzo Chigi, where the amendment that Total and Shell required was developed. That is why Minister Guidi's resignation is not enough to close the matter. It is the entire Government, first of all you, President of the Council, who should resign; you, who constantly repeat that your Government represents something new and different from the past. But in all this there is nothing, nothing at all, again. The conflict of interests, nepotism, subjection to lobbying, transformation, like that on which its parliamentary majority is based, are as ancient as the worst Italian political tradition. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). I'm closing, Madam President. You are convinced that it is enough to excel in the art of the embosser and put on a brand new old policy package to deceive the voters. But you should know that few people can be deceived for a long time or many people for a short time, but you can never, in the end, deceive a people. You've deceived him enough. That is why, President-in-Office of the Council, we shall vote in favour of the motion of no confidence in your Government. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u73	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, our Group will vote against the motions of mistrust against the Commission, and I would like to start from the events which have led to their presentation, by analysing the political contours and any anomalies that may be useful for the future. The resignation of Minister Guidi has certainly made the political climate that had arisen around the investigation of the Public Prosecutor of Potenza more serene, and this allows us today to reflect better on some aspects that can be used for legislative interventions in sensitive matters such as the regulation of lobbying, conflict of interest, interceptions and the duration of the processes. In Italy there is no legislative discipline that regulates the exercise of lobbying activity, seen in its correct sense of dialogue and comparison between the demands and requirements of social and productive bodies - on the one hand - and legislative and executive power, on the other. All this leads to direct contacts of category representatives with the world of politics and government: no barriers, no filters, no selection. It will then be necessary to try to identify mechanisms that ensure a comparison between the Commission and the private sector through rules of strict transparency, publicity and typical procedures. I say this not because I am opposed to the dialogue between the State and the citizen, but because I think that we must, for the future, through possible discipline of lobbying activities, clear the field from any suspicion of alleged private interference with the public. The theme of this discipline leads us to the need for a revision of the law on conflict of interest, when, being bearers of specific interests deriving from their own activity, they are called to hold positions of government or parliamentarians. But the problem, Mr President, becomes even more acute when national representatives of business groups spread throughout the territory play parliamentary roles. There is no doubt that, in this case, the presence and activity of lobbyists would be exercised not outside Parliament but within it. Mr President, on the occasion of the Tempa affair, we have witnessed for the umpteenth time the publication of telephone interceptions that, without criminal importance, have involved people outside the crime, making them appear as competing subjects in the crime. It is not nice to see its name published in a newspaper just because it is transcribed or quoted incidentally in the inquiry and passively assist, through that publication, in a process of media condemnation against it without any fault or responsibility. And it is not nice, in the aftermath of these events that are repeated with systematic periodicity, to attend the choir of the indignant for the blatant and serious violation of privacy and, at times, to the media condemnation that comes from it; choirs accompanied by the intent of indifferent legislative changes that avoid these unacceptable scenarios, and then see the extinguishing of these indignances that close in the drawers. We are ready to immediately share a law that, far from limiting the use of interceptions for investigative purposes, in limiting forms of inappropriate advertising, avoiding the deposit in the investigative acts of those completely without criminal relevance. Let's do it soon, I'll tell everyone: let's do it soon. I fear that the President-in-Office of the Council's wish, that the same prosecutors should give themselves internal rules to avoid the malfunctions and anomalies of which I have spoken, cannot solve the problem in its total objectivity, because no one can rule out that other prosecutors do not consider to adopt these codes of conduct. And do not say, please, that you want to impose a gag law, because the objective must be that of a law of civilization to protect the citizen and justice. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have called for faster time for judgments. I can only fully agree with and endorse the President-in-Office's call, because in this I find the principle of the presumption of innocence provided for in our Constitution and all too often obscured by media campaigns or movements of public opinion that lead to preventive, unjust and unacceptable sentences of condemnation. Mr President-in-Office of the Council has called for speedy trials and their judgments precisely to avoid these scenarios. But be careful, because this issue and this objective - in my opinion - would find an insurmountable obstacle with the possible choice to prolong the limitation of the crime. The consequence of this choice would be, in fact, the inevitable expansion of the length of the trials, and we are opposed to endorsing the figure of the "defendant for life." I am convinced that, if we want swift judgments, we must intervene through the introduction of new rigid rules that fix certain and unavoidable times for all the procedural phases and, in particular, for those relating to the duration of the investigations, because precisely the length, sometimes excessive, of this last phase, where the defensive activity is inhibited and therefore cannot be considered cause of delaying effects, then brings the processes close to the prescription already in the first or second stage of the debate. The principle of limitation, Mr President, obeys two requirements: the first is to guarantee the citizen certain times for the duration of investigations and trials against him, thus avoiding the Calvary of a quality of life often obscured or weighed down by the doubts or concerns of a procedure against him when he is in fact innocent. The second requirement is to avoid the defendant having to defend himself from events that are historically too far away from the dispute and for which, therefore, it may be difficult for him to find evidence to discharge. And in this vein I believe that Article 111 of the Constitution is admirably placed in the new wording of the Constitutional Law of 1999, of which our colleague Marcello Pera was inspired and voted by this Parliament, Mr President, almost unanimously. We are talking about the reasonable duration of the trial, which is an indelible principle in the Constitution, which would be violated by a rule which, by extending the limitation periods, would undoubtedly lead to the expansion of procedural times. My Group did not vote against the text of the statute of limitations, but abstained, following Mr Orlando's assurances of changes to the Senate. And we, in the absence of the promised changes, will be consistent with the thoughts of our fellow Members, and we will reject to the sender any criticism of those who would challenge us to want the impunity of the guilty. Our political history has seen us as protagonists, in the past, of strong legislative initiatives against all forms of illegality. I quote from all of them, those against organized crime. We did so in 2002, with the stabilisation of Article 41-a proposed by me, and with the approval, in 2013, of the rule on seizure by equivalent, which I suggested and advocated during the discussion of the security package in the Senate, and shared and supported by the Minister of Justice of the time, Angelino Alfano, who, among other things, at that time also tightened up the regime of 41-a. And, in approving these rules, we did not make proclamations, but we did value the fact of their unanimous parliamentary sharing, because a serious mistake is being made, ladies and gentlemen, when political forces are instrumentally divided in the fight against the Mafia. You'd do her a favor. The Mafia fights with the facts, with the laws and courageous investigations of the judiciary, and little with those attitudes of an anti-mafia made of proclamations, interviews and careers built on images of strong guardians of legality, which in these last periods - I regret to say - are sometimes revealing themselves dense of significant and disturbing shadow areas. Mr President, our alliance is complex, but responsible, because it is the result of an understanding of government between two political forces with different stories, with different electoral bodies, with different European positions, with sometimes difficult to reconcile values. One principle, however, unites us: the rejection of all forms of extremism or populism. This has not prevented us, however, from achieving important objectives of our programme: the jobs act, the health pact, the "no" to IRAP in the cost of work, zero taxes in the three years for new recruits, ecobonus, masters in their own home, the law against gender violence, the unlocking of the salary roofs for our women and men in uniform, the law against violence in stadiums. We will fight for more incisive measures to support the family and the Mezzogiorno; for an aggressive economic policy of the enormous public debt, which is not mentioned to decrease, and a consequent reduction in the tax burden; for an increase in public investment and the simplification of all the relevant procedures. We will do this by communicating responsibly within the majority, in the hope that the Senate will be assigned just times of debate, recently taken away from it during recent decrees-laws of strategic reforms. I shall conclude, Madam President. However, we will be intransigent on certain principles, such as guaranteeing, meritocracy, transparency in the choices of exponential figures, the value of life and the family provided for in the Constitution, heterosexual parenthood. A few weeks ago a strong tearing of the majority of the stepchild rule was avoided. We are not behind a millimeter, as we will never fall back every time we try to question the essential principles of our identity. It is an identity that also sees us as guardians of the principle of the reception of those fleeing from war and genocide, but strenuous defenders of the legality and security of our borders and of our country, which today is called to counter a new and terrible invisible enemy such as terrorism, which our Government daily fights in silence and with great professionalism. This task is also carried out, and above all, thanks to the commendable daily work of women and men of the Forces of Order who ensure, at the risk of their lives, safety to our families and places. To them, heartily, goes our thanks. Thank you so much! [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Susta. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u76	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to make one note before I begin my speech. President Renzi called the senators rude. I see the government is missing here, including President Renzi, so I think the rude is him. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Centinario]] That's because he's proving he doesn't have a propensity to listen. On the other hand, it has shown - let me say the word - that it can vomit in this House all the "non-reform" it has done, including the non-real results on the new employment, because the number it has spoken of - the 950,000 contracts - does not correspond to that of the new employees of Italy, who are much less: 220,000 is, in fact, the figure of the increase in employment and 135,000 are the traineeships, considering to all intents and purposes the trainees, who are still not paid by this Government. I am referring, in fact, to the Youth Guarantee programme. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is, therefore, a "non-reform" which cost the Italians EUR 12 billion and has not generated any work. So let's talk about the jobs act and continue with everything that this Government is carrying out. It is not pursuing any political activity to ensure youth employment and has cut off the legs of savers cheated by banks. Pensioners continue to be unable to live and we see them picking up garbage on the street when the local markets run out. But I understand that their senators don't go down the street. Instead of discussing concrete solutions and legislative proposals to restore dignity to citizens, such as the proposed law on citizenship income, that the 5 Star Movement in this House, several times, every day, every month, has reiterated over the last three years to restore dignity to citizens, this House of Parliament has to deal with the huge scandal that has overwhelmed the government for weeks. Today's Trivellopolis is comparable to the Tangentopoli of 1992, that Tangentopoli that overwhelmed Government and Italian institutions just like today this black tide, black as oil, is submerging your Government, the PD and its illustrious exponents. More than twenty years have passed since Tangentopoli and the investigation of Clean Hands, but today as then we must take note that the Italian institutions and this Government, in particular, have not been able to become impervious to the infiltrations of corruption and evil and have not wanted to resolve their conflicts of interest and resist the temptation to bend politics to an instrument of power and undue personal enrichment. And, when evil penetrates institutions and government, it is because government and institutions are permeable to infiltrations and therefore accomplices. Today, just like in those dark nineties, the public thing is still their thing. To tell Trivellopoli it is useful to start from the crimes that the attorney of Potenza and the anti-mafia contest to the suspects. With regard to the interceptions, I say to President Renzi that informed citizens are entitled to know what the interceptions contain and that, thanks to their knowledge, this Parliament knows what those affairs and the current majority, the PD and the Government have carried out. What are these crimes? Association for criminals, trafficking in illicit influences, own corruption, improper corruption, concussion, undue induction, aggravated fraud for public disbursements, illicit trafficking in waste and mixing of special waste, office abuse. The names involved, directly or indirectly, that emerge from the interceptions of the inquiry are not a fantasy, but are those of representatives of the Government, the PD and the majority: the former Minister Guidi, whose resignation was a due act, but that does not save the face of the entire Executive; the Minister for Boschi reforms; the Minister for Infrastructure Delrio; the Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council De Vincenti; the Undersecretary to the infrastructures Vicari; the president of the Region Basilicata Pittella (exponent of the PD); the head secretariat of the senator Finocchiaro, Paolo Quinto. Then there are the suspects: the undersecretary to health De Filippo; the regional councillor Robortella (exponent of the PD); the chief of staff of the Navy De Giorgi; the vice president of Confindustria Lo Bello. Finally, there is the former mayor of the Municipality of Corleto Perticara, Rosaria Vicino (also an exponent of PD), today at home. So this Government - it is the response of the 5 Star Movement - respects the Italian Constitution! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This inquiry tells us of a system of rotten and hypocritical power, with institutions maneuvered by a clique, a clan, a neighborhood, a criminal association that moves Ministers and Ministries as pawns on a chessboard, with the only goal of achieving illicit personal profits. I would like to address you directly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who perhaps listens to us from afar (but still what I say will remain in the proceedings): Trivellopoli reveals to all Italians how you have operated and why today your hands are dirty and dripping oil! [[Comments from the PD Group]] In full conflict of interests, you have worked to promote multinational companies like French Total, to the detriment of the health of the citizens of Basilicata and the environment. Unlocking Italy and the law of stability have served as horses of Troy to secretly insert norms pushed by the clique that was headed by the companion of the former minister Guidi, norms that unblocked the plant of Tempa Rossa and in a single blow cut the necessary authorizations to bring the oil extracted to Basilicata to Taranto, giving the last word to the Government and disregarding the will of Regions, Municipalities and citizens. Who gets in on this operation? The Italians? Lucanian citizens who suffer from cancer? The territories polluted by the spills of oil wells? Of course not! As the country struggles to leave and recover, you have allowed the oil clique - it is also the clique of ships and ports, and this is what the investigations say - to do business and get hands everywhere. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have reduced this Parliament to a great merchant at the fair: you make me make the amendment unlock oil and I give you the subcontracting from 2,5 million euros; you appoint me the commissioner of the harbour Authority of Augusta complacent and I have you approve of the renewal of the naval fleet for almost 6 billion euros. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have wasted public money, speculated on the health of citizens, on defence and security, on the protection of the environment and our territory and, in doing so, you have lost every brand of dignity and credibility. Caught with his hands in oil first by the 5 Star Movement, then by the Procurator of the Republic, President Renzi claimed the famous amendment Tempa Rossa, as if to put his feet at the head of the Regions and citizens who live in those territories and unlock a private work from which Italy will not get a dry fig were a pride or a medal to pin on the chest. But this medal - and I tell you with my heart in this Chamber - is paid at a high price, with the lives of people living in Basilicata and dying from pollution. Look at them! Go there! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Just for this, if she had a whirlwind of dignity, she should take a step back. And with her, all her ministers should go home, first and foremost Minister Boschi, who allowed the trade mark amendment sponsored by Guidi to enter the Stability Act. The 5 Star Movement is proud to have denounced the rot that is before everyone's eyes today. We went to Basilicata, we went to Augusta. Yesterday I spent an hour talking to Don Palmiro Prisutto, the brave parish priest who every 28th of the month in Augusta denounces and lists the deaths of cancer and cancer. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u77	Senator Catalfo, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u78	CATALFO (M5S). Trivellopolis is only the beginning, just as at the time the arrest of Mario Chiesa was only the appetizer of the avalanche that would then arrive with Tangentopoli. Trivellopolis is the tip of an iceberg. The Italians must know clearly that the motion of no confidence will be rejected by this House for a very simple reason: the Group of Senator Verdini - the friends of AL-A, as President Renzi calls them - which is exactly what was sent to trial yesterday for the sixth time in two years and was sentenced for competition in corruption, will vote with the majority. It is a government politically corrupted by lobbyists, oil and business clans, saved by corrupt criminals and with more trials than Al Capone! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Catalfo, I invite you to conclude. Don't make me take the word off her, which isn't right. CATALFO (M5S). Corruption and evil, in this House, feed, save and self-fulfill: an unworthy spectacle for a civilized country! Criminal criminals support (and save) political criminals. You are people without modesty and without dignity and for what the 5 Star Movement and Italian citizens want... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u81	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the Marquis del Grillo has retired to his palace and we - the quotation is known - that we are little, we are here. It seems to me, however, that in the history of Italian politics arrogant attitudes have not paid. I am referring therefore to Renzi's attitude, who has withdrawn all the troops of the Government, and there is only someone left to vote; someone has rightly returned because, as a senator, he must vote, and therefore I am also lucky, but it is a circumstance and not a gesture of consideration towards oppositions. The President-in-Office of the Council has mocked the motion by wondering what it is for. It's to highlight the government's limitations. Therefore, we totally vindicate the text that we have put in place, because the Government, which had presented itself as that of the scrapers, of innovators, of the candid new subjects of the politics, then in reality, after a not very long time, found itself involved in the classical arguments a little 'untuoso, and not only in those of the oil (so of interests and of business committees), but a few months ago also in banking events, so there is nothing new. Therefore, those who were innovators and scrapers are here every tot month to justify what happened in popular banks and in Basilicata, where it seemed to us that oil, instead of finding it the Italians, found it by the Democratic Party. We do not fail in our guaranteeing position and, therefore, we certainly await the outcome of the judicial proceedings. We have signed a motion of distrust that could be led to define a distrust of the career and, therefore, to the complex attitudes, behavior and conduct of the Renzi Government. With regard to the subject of guaranteeing, we must say one thing, and President Napolitano will allow me to do so with respect, but also with the frankness of our argument. President Napolitano, in recent days, has authoritatively said that the condition is ripe to make a law on interceptions. President Napolitano, it was mature even a few years ago, when we could not make that law. [[Senator Napolitano's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u82	Senator Gasparri, address the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u83	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I said it with respect. [[Senator Napolitano's comments.]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Shut up, don't interrupt! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Napolitano, stop. SANTANGELO (M5S). Stop. Shut up! MARTON (M5S). You have to shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, have a seat. Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order. Senator Gasparri, I invite you to address the Assembly. As you know, this is a fundamental rule. SANTANGELO (M5S). Call him back, too! Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Colleagues in this House, I think that condition was mature a long time ago. Therefore, I hope that the laws under discussion, the proposals of the current Government, will come to a conclusion not to prohibit interceptions, but to prevent their abuse. It is not that interceptions are to be limited when they concern PD and are to be multiplied when they concern others. Either you are always or never guaranteed and from this point of view, we frankly do not take the lesson from the Marquis of Grillo, because in this matter we can be examples as unjust victims. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Dear President Renzi, there is not only Senator Margiotta who has suffered unjust trials in silence; so many of us have suffered - as we have mentioned in this House - accusations that had no foundation and we have faced them with an institutional spirit. We, however, also contest the undergrowth of businessism. I think that Minister Guidi, in many ways, has been a victim and has also resigned and, therefore, has taken responsibility for himself and for others. But all the undergrowth of Gemini, not Gemini, of representatives who had to stay in the Ministry, even without the room as long as they were there, represented a split that a government like this, of scrapers and innovators, should not have, because it is something very ancient, very classic, very desueto, having always been there these types of characters that must be banned. We will see which will be guilty and which will be innocent. We have not even participated, like Forza Italia, in a choir of denigration of the Armed Forces, because we have never lent ourselves to this and we will not lend ourselves. If anything, we have to recriminate if the right money for naval law is used to use ships for operations that carry illegal immigrants and not for the security of the country. We've got something to say about the employment that the government imposes on our Navy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani]] First, the President of the Grillo Council said that Senators Marin and Malan did not say true things. Then you have to explain something to us and, I say it to my fellow ministers, and I see that Minister Pinotti is present, who follows these things having competence over the Navy. If it is true that landings have not increased, why did Renzi - the candidate answers the question - ask the European Union for 2015 to recognise Italy as being over EUR 3 billion from the public accounts for extra expenditure on immigration? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani.]] If you have asked for a return of 3 billion euros, it is because the entrances have increased. Data use of the President of the Council for 2015. And then, if you like, let's talk about 2016, since the increase in landings is under everyone's eyes: the Balkan roads will have closed, in Libya there is no control although there is a new government that is still struggling to walk, but the landings have increased and there are thousands a day. It would take the counter like that of Telethon when you collect the money for charity, to update the number of landings by minute. And also the mission - Minister Pinotti knows, since it is the subject of our polite but convinced dispute - EUNAVFOR Med in which our Navy participates was to serve to fight the hullers. But, since the Libyan Government is not yet able to control the coasts and territorial waters of Libya and does not ask us to intervene there, the ships of EUNAVFOR Med participate in the transport of illegals. And we, faced with the tragedies of the sea, are moved, indignant and supportive, but let's say that those who encourage the trafficking of illegal immigrants also multiply the number of deaths [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani.]] This is a fact which we would like to see discussed. Therefore, the immigration chapter of our motion is one of the main reasons for mistrust. As an Italian, it bothers me too when Austria threatens us, but remember that a few months ago Hollande's France, who is an exponent of European socialism, France of the French revolution closed the border at Ventimiglia. Do you remember that thing with the illegals on the rocks? He said that the very civilized France, governed by the socialists, because there were too many of them in Italy, had grown tired of seeing this transit. What is the Italian strategy? I bring them here, pretend to identify them, turn around, leave and then the problems will be of the French, the Austrians, the Germans and the Swedes. France has grown tired, as has Austria. For Christ's sake, we know that, if there were constraints and closures, our goods and our trade would be threatened and in danger, but then we must put an end to this policy that puts us in the sedan in Europe and makes us consider ourselves a danger. So, that policy has failed. But where are the numbers of refugees - in this case they are not illegals - to be redistributed in Europe and the agreements that Renzi and his ministers had reached at the various European meetings? A complete failure on the immigration front. As far as the economy is concerned, data have already been said. GDP was expected to grow by 2.6%, while growth, perhaps barely, by 1.3%, if not by 1.1 percent. These are today's events. Just read today's accounts, the judgments of the Court of Auditors and the Bank of Italy on the DEF that are pitiful, because the numbers, dear Renzi, that you have brought to the attention of Parliament are false. We fear that there will be, after the October referendum - why scare citizens first? - a very hard, very strict economic maneuver, caused by accounts that are not in place. Also in the hearings, a bit boring but important and to follow - I suggest colleagues to read tomorrow the reports or maybe they are already online and you can consult - there are rejections in these hours on the accounts of the Renzi government. As far as work is concerned, jobs act was a failure. Some incentives for recruitment and tax relief have worked (as long as they have worked). Today Renzi, the liar, the Marquis of Grillo, has been allowed to say that the reform of the job had to be done before 2003. We did it, Marco Biagi did it. Have respect for the dead [[Applause from GroupFI-PdL XVII),]] If he doesn't want respect for the living, this lying provocateur! Do you remember the Biagi reform? It was labour market reform that brought unemployment to the lowest levels in recent Italian history, around 8%. And Biagi was killed in a climate I don't want to remember. Mr President, we give Renzi no confidence not only because of the events of Potenza, but also because of the chaos of the reform of the public administration, because of the missed refunds to companies that must have money from the state. Do you remember the schools to put back in place? Roofs still fall. Do you remember so many other promises? The list would be long and, as far as the amendment is concerned, today Renzi said the truth: But how? We also made the sub-amendment, didn't you notice? Of course, and we voted against it. Senator D'Alì of our Group took the floor that night. I am not shocked that an amendment is being discussed at 4 a.m.; if you work in those marathons it is normal. The sub-amendment, which presented the rapporteur for that law in this House, do you know what it meant, environmentalists from the left? To transform the "concerto" to control works such as those of Lucan between the Ministry of the Environment and that of development into a "heard the Ministry of the Environment." That sub-amendment you claimed is a further attack on the environment. You deserve all our distrust. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u86	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I am speaking at the end of a very long debate in which the contents of the two motions have been dealt with by many senators; by some on the subject and by others on the contrary, by some in tone and by others on the other hand. I will only deal with a few political and institutional aspects which I consider to be very important of the two motions. In the first three years of this legislature, the oppositions presented 31 motions of distrust - almost one per month - between the House and the Senate, and in the first three years of the last legislature seven of them were presented. In terms of increase we have a 443 percent rise, much greater if we talk about the Senate alone, where in the last three years, the motions presented were 22 against only one of the last legislature. The constituent Fathers certainly did not want this routine. For Meuccio Ruini - you know who he is - the motion of distrust was a special and exceptional procedure not only to make governments less unstable, but to avoid endless discussions. Ruini feared that with the motions of distrust every parliamentarians would feel entitled to say his introducing panoramic discussions on everything that happens in Italy and in the world. That is exactly what has happened in this House today by many senators who have spoken. Ruini said that from this costume would result a wound to the seriousness of Parliament. This wound today has been largely inflicted on this Senate. Among the 31 motions of mistrust of this legislature many are emblematic examples of serial political exploitation. I remember only one: just four months after the inauguration of the Letta Government, the Senators of the 5 Star Movement Group presented a motion in which they basically requested the resignation of the Letta Government for failing to implement the many points of their own program. By rereading that motion, we can draw some very curious ideas from it. The most beautiful pearl is the request for the resignation of the Letta Government for not having abolished the IMU on the first house. Too bad that when the Renzi Government abolished it, the 5 Star Movement Group voted against it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi]] They also requested the resignation of Letta for not having abolished the public funding of the parties and the Letta Government abolished it even by decree-law, but also that vote when the Senators of the 5 Star Movement voted against. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They are two cases that do not need any word of comment: they comment on themselves. Now, the degeneration of the institution of the motion of distrust, which the Constituents wanted to be exceptional, has a very clear meaning: it is an unequivocal sign of the difficulties of an opposition without a programme, which has resigned itself to the policy of the 75 million algorithm amendments, of the constitutional prejudices on all - I say all - the measures, of the continuous request for a legal number, of the mass exits from the Chamber, of the protests to the Presidency of the Assembly, of the screams in the Chamber (which we have heard again this evening, repeatedly). (21.10 p.m.) (ZANDA followed). In the first seventy years of republican parliamentary democracy the motions of distrust were presented for very serious facts, when it was thought that they could bring down the government or dissolve the Chambers and provoke the early elections. Today it is certainly no longer so: neither of the political forces that has signed the two instrumental motions that we are discussing wants the immediate fall of the government, let alone the early elections, which instead do not want (in fact, I believe they fear). They are anti-system initiatives, with the aim of obtaining a title in the newspapers or a passage on the news: only that Parliament is not a talk show and the motions of distrust should be a more serious thing. I have read the motions carefully and found them without arguments that even remotely deserve a government crisis. The motions confirm the impression that the real political debate that the Italian Parliament would need today is the way in which oppositions make politics both in the House and in the Senate. Let's examine the facts. There is a judicial inquiry which is still under investigation, which does not make it possible to know the procedural documents. We do not know whether and what warranty notices have been issued. There's no news of referrals in court. The Senators of the Democratic Party call for the investigation to take its course with the necessary rigour and without discounts for anyone and ask above all for the judgment to be celebrated. I say more. The Senate is examining the reform of the criminal trial, whose importance for better justice and a more effective fight against corruption is known to all senators. The indignation at scandals and the demand for honesty can be both noble signs of good politics and mere theoretical intentions. But we are senators of the Republic and must be able to transform indignance into good laws. From the contribution of each senator, from the contribution that we will make to bring home, well and quickly, the reform of the criminal process will be seen on which side each of us stands. The press has made known some parts of the telephone interceptions from which various forms of verbal ease have emerged and for one of these conversations the minister Federica Guidi has resigned, which, moreover, seems to be injured part. In any other Western democracy, behavior from the rule of law would have been immediately adopted: after the resignation of the Minister, politics should have understood that it had to respect the judiciary and wait for the conclusions of the inquiry. Instead, with a Pavlovian reflection, both the political exploitation and the presentation of motions of distrust started immediately. You see, these days, political life is very difficult. We can all make mistakes: they can make mistakes for the majority and the government and they can make mistakes for the opposition. Many attribute so much failure to the crisis of the political system, and that is true, but it is certainly an incomplete analysis. In the time we are experiencing the crisis, not only does politics invest, but an entire ruling class, and more at the bottom of whole parts of society. And it is precisely the depth of this planetary crisis, which is both political, cultural, economic and social, that makes possible the iron wire walls that are destroying Schengen, the Trump race in the US, the shortsighted policies of rigor and blindness in front of epochal phenomena, such as immigration and terrorism. These are the characteristics of this planetary crisis that are weakening the very institutions and roots of many democracies. In the Italian Parliament, however, there is a very important difference: the majority and the government can make mistakes, but all the Chancelleries, all the public opinions know that our intention is to work for the country, to beat the crisis, to ensure social peace, to defend the European ideal. The oppositions work daily and exclusively - even today's debate has confirmed this - for the interest of their political part, of their shop. And that's no small difference. Among the Western democracies, ours is the only one where the political action of the opposition has its strength not in the opposition of its own program to that of the Government, but in the instrumental use of parliamentary regulations with the stated objective of preventing the approval of any measure, even risking to enter into strong opposition with itself, as happened with the IMU on the first house and the abolition of public funding to parties. Faced with epochal phenomena that are marking this time, in the face of biblical migratory flows, in the face of international terrorism and regional wars that make talk of a third world war, in the face of a Europe on the brink of an inexorable disintegration, the most incisive political initiative that oppositions show of wanting to assume is the thirty-first motion of distrust that they already know, they say, and perhaps want it to be rejected. On the day we once again mourn hundreds of migrants who died in the Mediterranean, and on which we should all support together the beautiful Italian proposal for European support to the African nations from which migrants flee, the debate on motions of distrust has something truly surreal. We also see political contortions that we considered impossible only a few weeks ago. The unique front of the motions sees, in addition to the North League, the Fittiani and the 5 Stars, also Forza Italia, who ruled our country for many years and now finds himself teaming up with those anti-system forces that he has always said he hates. But what serious political perspective can a company have in Parliament that is scattered in order, except to get together for sterile and presumptuous initiatives? What common political horizon can be imagined for parliamentary groups that compete with each other and do not tolerate each other? Look, in democracy, no majority, not even us, not even this majority can rejoice at the difficulties of opposition. I am not happy at all, and I am concerned about it because in democracy the majority alone, without a continuous confrontation with a true opposition, is not able to guarantee a balanced development of the country. In a healthy, living and vital political system, Parliament is divided into two parts: majority and opposition, which, even if in struggle between them, are not two separate worlds, because both guardians of the proper functioning of the State, aware that a break in the rules would damage everyone, even those who wanted it. Political stability is in the interest of Italy. We must therefore hope that the legislature will end at its natural expiry, and if it will last until 2018 - which is an objective neither of the right nor of the left - we will certainly not be satisfied with two years of quiet management of ordinary administration because Italy still has issues of epochal importance. In the face of the commitment to confront them, I do not call for a vote in favour of the opposition; I only ask that their political battle be moved from the war on the legal number to the comparison of programmes and ideas, of course if you are capable of it. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups]] CIOFFI (M5S). Shut up!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u87	Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and Rule 161, paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by appeal of motion No 551, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators in favour of the motion of distrust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. He asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senator Napolitano. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal of this senator. (The foretold senator responds to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator De Pin is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator De Pin. AMATI, secretary, makes the appeal. [[At the time of the vote, ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group at the address of Senators Munerato and Repetti]] . The senators: Airola, Amidei, Aracri, Augello Barozzino, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bignami, Blundo, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Caridi, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolilli, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagna, Consiglio, Cotti, Crimi D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Siano, Di Maggio, Donno Endrizzi Fasano, Martellini, Martelli, Martellini, Martellino, Galimberti, Gasparri, Giarusso, Giardino, Girotto Lezzi, Liuzzi, Lucidi Malan, Mandelli, Mangili, Mengili, Martelli, Martelli, Martellii, Petellini, Petellini, Martellini, Martellini, Martellini, Pertellini, Pertellini, Gaetti, Gaetti, Galtellini, Galenti, Galenti, Galenti, Gaetti, Galmberti, Gaetti, Galmberti, Gaetti, Gaetti, Gaetti, Galmberti, Galmberti, Gaetti, Gaetti, Galmberti, Gaetti, Gaetti, Gaetti, Gaetti, Gaetti, Galmberti, Gaetti, Gaspari, Gaetti, Gaspari, Gaspari, Gaspari, Gatti, Giar, Giar, Giar, Giar, Giar, Giar, Giar, Giar, Giar, Giar Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Auricchio, Azzollini Barani, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bilinella, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Broglia, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Chivaroli, Chiti, Chirinnà, Cociancich, Collina, Colucci, Compagnone, Conti, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Zuanna, D'Anna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Polia, Faiolo, Della Vedova, Di Fiagio, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fabbri, Falanca, Faveriolo, Faverini, Favero, Favero, Favero, Fevero, Fevero, Fevero PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u88	I communicate that the sheets bearing the signatures for the request for popular referendum promoted by one fifth of the members of the Senate on the text of the Constitutional Law which includes provisions for the overcoming of bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the containment of the operating costs of the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution have been delivered, at the request of the same, to the senators Vito Claudio Crimi, Loredana De Petris and Gian Marco Centinario, delegates to deposit the request at the Registry of the Court of Cassation, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 6 of Law No 352 of 25 May 1970. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u89	I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of motion 551 of no confidence to the Government, presented by Senator Catalfo and other senators: [[Senators present 280 Senators voting 279 Majority 140 Favorables 96 Contrari 183]] The Senate doesn't approve. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u90	Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and Rule 161, paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by appeal of motion 554, tabled by Senators Romani Paolo, Centinario, Bonfrisco and other senators. The senators in favour of the motion of distrust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator De Cristofaro is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator De Cristofaro. SCOMA, secretary, makes the appeal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u93	MUCCHETTI (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask you to consider that I have made a mistake. I asked to be able to vote as my will is, that is, no. The habit of the many trusts had made me say yes automatically. It's tiredness. I would ask that this be taken into account at this point in the calculation as well. I would add that there is a brief case study: first to Senator Gasparri and, on another occasion, to Senator Casson had been allowed to review under the presidency to revote, having made a material mistake. I think the subjective will of a senator is worth more than any lawsuits and how many steps a person has taken or has not done. Of course, I am going back to the Presidency. In any case, if we cannot reform the vote, I would ask that this be recorded.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u94	Pursuant to Rule 11 of the Rules of Procedure, the Secretary Senators make the roll call, ascertain the result of the votes. So it's the Secretaries who decide how much they've recorded. (Senator Secretary Scoma goes again to Senator Mucchetti's appeal.) The senators: Airola, Amidei, Aracri, Augello Barozzino, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bignami, Blundo, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Caridi, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Consiglio, Cotti, Crimi D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Siano, Di Maggio, Donno Fasano, Fattori, Ferrara Mari seno Gaetti, Galimberti, Gasparri, Giarusso, Giovanardi, Girotto Lezzi, Liuzzi, Lucidi Malan, Mandelli, Mangilii, Marinellini, Martellini, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martellitellitelli, Martellitellitellitellitellitellitellini, Marverti, Marveri, Marveri, Marvei, Marvei, Mario Miorio, Mariano, Giargio, Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Maggio, Mario Mario Mario Maggio, Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Maggio, Giardino, Giardino, Giardino, Giardino, Giardino, Giardino, Giardino, Giardino, Giardino, Giardi, Giardi, Giardi, Giardi, Giardi, Giardi, Giardino, Giardi, Giardi Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Auricchio Barani, Battista, Bencini, Berger, Bianconi, Bianconi, Bisinella, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cassano, Chiavaroli, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Compagnone, Conti, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Anna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giacomo, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposi Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Favero, Favero, Favero PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u97	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I should like to point out my disappointment at the procedure that has been followed. As in the Rules of Procedure and Appendix to the Rules of Procedure, the Senator passes under the bench of the Presidency, expresses his vote, the parliamentary assistant pronounces this vote aloud and the same is done by the Senator Secretary. At the time when the Secretary gives the vote, the outcome has already been achieved. Make him take a further ride or, worse still, make him reverse: two priors, two mistakes, do not do a right thing. Even when a senator is wrong to press the button, he puts himself on the record that he was wrong to vote and that's where it ends. It doesn't seem to me that today's numbers even required forcements in this respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u98	We take note of the details of Senator Calderoli. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of motion 554, of no confidence in the Government, presented by Senators Romani Paolo, Centinario, Bonfrisco and other senators: [[Senators present 274 Senators voting 273 Majority 137 Favorables 93 Contrari 180]] The Senate doesn't approve.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u99	At the end of the sitting, I would like to inform you that the Conference of Leaders is convened.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u100	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-609.ana.u101	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Wednesday, April 20, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22.41 a.m.
