ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u10	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to make a correction to a vote yesterday on the bill of delegation to the Government for the reform of the third sector, namely the seventy-fiveth, in which my Group has rightly voted against. Since yesterday's sitting I have seen that I voted in favour. I may have been confused, but I will now vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u11	We take note of your clarification of the 75th vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u12	The next item is the joint debate on documents XXIII, Nos. 7, 8, 9 and 11. The reports have already been printed and distributed. I call Senator Puppato to explain document XXIII, No 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u13	Mr President, I would like to thank all the Members present and the Presidency of the Senate, who wanted to include the four reports on the agenda, which we will be presenting with my fellow Members, Mr Compagnone and Mr Arrigoni. It must be said, to be honest, that we would have liked a wider discussion, with more time available to the various groups, also because the four reports are very full-bodied and required a particularly thorough investigation of the four issues covered. For each of the four issues covered by the reports, we will then have to present a resolution, which commits the Government to coordinating actions: in the specific case, what I am asked to explain concerns nuclear waste. This is an issue of enormous importance to the country and it is necessary for the Government to resume the situation. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u14	Excuse me, Senator Puppato. Colleagues, we have begun our work. I would ask you, please, to allow the rapporteur to make her speech under acceptable conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u15	PUPPATO, rapporteur on document XXIII, No 7. Thank you, Mr President. In view of the limited timing of the reports, I would like to thank all my colleagues, including those who will not be able to speak today, and those of all the groups which unanimously approved the reports. This shows that during the course of this year and a half, the Commission of Inquiry has been working, leaving aside the coats of arms of each and putting at the centre the work to be done to clean up the country. This is the first fact that we must take note of. I would like to leave out the whole section, which you will be able to read in the 52 pages of the report, on the various stops and go - we have called them so - which has lived, since 1999 to the present day, the nuclear theme, with the beginning of the need for the decommissioning of the four nuclear installations existing in our territory and with the indispensable work for the treatment of existing nuclear and radioactive waste, also coming from industrial and health activities of our territory. As I said, I am going straight to the heart of the matter, given the narrowness of time. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] There are three points on which I will dwell in the course of my report on the subject of nuclear power: the first point is what it highlights... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u16	Excuse me, colleagues, we are above the physiological level of background buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u17	PUPPATO, rapporteur on document XXIII, No 7. We are talking, Mr President, about a reality which in 2014 saw 30,000 crimes committed, with the beauty of 80 crimes a day, and this has led this Parliament to finally approve the Eco-Ray Act, also thanks to the propulsive activity carried out by the various Commissions, including the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into illegal activities related to the waste cycle. I would like to close my thanks, with special thanks to the three figures who have collaborated on the reports and the work they have done on these four activities: engineer Mezzanotte, as far as my report is concerned, and magistrates Battarino and Castellano, as far as the others are concerned. Below I will refer to the three essential issues, which are basically the three critical points that we highlighted in the Italian nuclear decommissioning panorama. The first point concerns the fundamental criticality; that is, as it is intuitable, the absence to date of a national deposit where it can place the radioactive waste, distributed at various points of the national territory, in the majority where produced. This lack does not allow a stable safety of waste according to the standards available today, makes the prospect of decommissioning nuclear installations uncertain and leaves the issue of waste produced in the use of radioactive materials in research, health and industry unresolved. It does not allow us to define a destination for radioactive waste which - it should be said - started again from 23 December to France and Great Britain. However, it is a question of irradiated fuel and it will have to be expected, by international contract, that it will return to Italy and find here the suitable place to stay. The second problem that we have highlighted is the slowness with which the activities of decommissioning have been conducted. Delays already departing. You will have the opportunity to read in the report how it has been extended, almost sine die, the time for their suppression and their transformation. But changes in policy direction have contributed to fundamental choices, such as the management of residual irradiated fuel. It has contributed to the inertia, the perilousness of the total administrative system and the controls. It has contributed to the remembered lack of a final deposit and the objective difficulty and complexity of the operations to be carried out. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u18	Colleagues, I would once again ask you to allow the rapporteur to carry out the report on such a sensitive subject under appropriate conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u19	I would ask you to listen or continue your conversations elsewhere. PUPPATO, rapporteur on document XXIII, No 7. However, the Commission has not entirely approved the reasons put forward at this time by Sogin, the company set up for the treatment, which has in its hands the entire management of the nuclear installations discharged, as well as all radioactive waste in Italy. There are not only endogenous causes, but also all internal causes of Sogin. There is an admission, which was held in the last hearing of the managing director Casale, who affirmed that the prevailing mentality within society is that of a management in safety and therefore certainly positive from the point of view of the protection of workers and the surrounding environment, but less capable, less prone to a complex and specialized programming, with the close, rigid and determined timings that need a coordination and a general vision. The third difficulty we highlight concerns control functions and it is a difficulty that the Government really needs to remedy immediately. Functions that were assigned to ISPRA in 1994, although since 2009, some laws have provided for ISPRA to continue this activity only on a transitional basis. By the last Decree No 45, in relation to the implementation of Euratom Directive 70 of 2011 on the management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, the ISIN, the National Inspectorate for Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection, was established. There is a structure of at least 60 technicians, particularly specialised nuclear engineers; but neither the management nor the structure has ever been activated. The Commission notes the vetusity of the current technicians present in ISPRA, all over 50 and the half-life situation, determined by the grounds. There are only about 30 of them today. Obviously, this greatly slows down, for example, the verification and authorisation skills. The Commission has highlighted some serious concerns and concerns at several sites. We were recently in Piemonte, in Vercelli, to visit the Eurex and Cemex plants; we were in Taranto, where, fortunately, we are solving one of the most important problems, that of abandoning in a abandoned shed of thousands of tons of radioactive waste. Thanks to the intervention provided for by Parliament's decision in 2015, with the 10 million available, we will have the opportunity to send the material in an appropriate place, as well as to clean up the places. However, we must admit that comparison with other international realities - France and Spain - makes it even clearer, on the one hand, the path we must take and, on the other hand, the obvious criticalities. I want to make an exemplifying comparison to make this clear. Recently (last year) we went to France at the Aube radioactive waste storage centre. This plant contains radioactive waste three times as much as the total amount that Italy will have to manage. Obviously France has our problems multiplied by ten or per cent, having a nuclear system still in use and having the need to cope with millions of tons of waste in the decommissioning phase. Italy has "only" 95,000 tons, but precisely this must not lead us on the bad road of believing that it is trivial what we are doing: it is not at all. The demonstration - as I said - lies precisely in the concern that grows in the territorial areas in which systems and installations are currently maintained in temporary form. What is happening in Spain, much more like us in relation to the issue of the treatment of radioactive waste? We went to Cordoba, to El Cabril, in the Andalusian province, and we verified that a surface waste disposal plant at low and medium activity, very similar to ours for structural characteristics and management methods, has already been realized. Well, it is almost incredible, knowing what happens in our country, to learn that this plant enjoys a very high level of safety and the overall serenity of the entire population that lives next to it. It has to be said that, just recently, a call for participation in a project aimed at establishing a deposit near Villar de Cañas has seen the participation of ten municipalities, candidates for economic and employment benefits. This allows us to say, precisely by transferring the information received, that in order to allow national nuclear waste storage settlements a change of pace is necessary, with complete transparency in information and procedures, active participation of the population, credibility of the managers and controllers, clarity by the governments. Since August we have been waiting for the authorisation of the National Charter of the areas potentially suitable to continue this path, to maintain the international commitments we have made and to give assurance and confirmation to the Italian people that this Government and this Parliament are taking seriously. There is a risk that a Community infringement will be opened for failing to comply with the time required for the creation of the Risk Charter and for the identification and implementation of the national deposit. I would stress, therefore, the need to be able to discuss in the presence of the Government (which I thank through the Undersecretary Degani) a resolution that puts the issues in line and can move forward, in decent and rapid times, our project of nuclear disposal. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u20	I call Senator Compagnone to explain document XXIII, No 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Undersecretary Degani, the investigation of Liguria began with a mission carried out from 20 to 23 January 2015. It was preceded by the hearing of judicial authorities, administrative authorities, environmental associations and trade union representatives, as well as the carrying out of numerous inspections near the port of La Spezia, the site of Pitelli, the landfill of Genoa-Scarpino, the port of Genoa where then was the wreck of the Costa Concordia. The survey continued with a second mission to Genoa and Imperia from 18 to 20 February 2015. A focus has been realized on the Agency of the customs and the cross-border traffic of the waste, with inspection in the centers of handling of the container. A survey was carried out at the SIN in Cogoleto, Province of Genoa, and a visit at the landfill of Collette Ozotto in Taggia, Province of Imperia. A total of 113 documents were acquired from public and private entities. To understand what has happened in the Liguria Region you can not ignore its peculiarities: a Region with 330 kilometers of coastline, 5.420 square kilometers of surface (therefore, little extended), with about 1.5 million inhabitants, that makes it the fourth Region by population density in Italy. To this strong concentration of population is associated, moreover, a remarkable productive fabric with great ports (Genoa, La Spezia: the two largest ports in Italy), tourist-commercial activity, developed artisan activities, large industrial poles for the refining of oil, shipbuilding and the production of energy. All this in a region with a small territory, as we have said, mainly mountainous that declines directly on the sea. Another important note is that there is a per capita production of waste of as much as 14% more than the national average. Therefore, a region with particular orographic characteristics, highly urbanized, where ports and industrial activities insist, should have equipped itself with an adequate strategy for the sustainable management of the waste. This has not happened; over time it has been hypothesized the realization of technologically advanced and extraordinary structures that would have had to solve the problems, but in reality they have never been realized, leaving exposed the territory to a deregulation with phenomena of illiceity, only partially discovered and always to be feared. As regards the collection of municipal waste, the Region has based everything on the presence of 174 landfill sites distributed in the four Provinces, of which only 52 have been declared definitively reclaimed and only two are currently working (Collette Ozotto and Rio Marseille) for a progressive and unavoidable exhaustion of the capacity of all other sites. Therefore, this system heavily dependent on landfill facilities inevitably entered into crisis, with the result that a large amount of waste is exported out of the region for disposal under interregional agreements. All other forms of management appear residual, so much so that the levels of separate collection are around 30-33 percent. There are only 5 composting plants throughout the Region that have treated in 2013 only 24 tons of organic waste, therefore the recovery of the organic fraction is attested to really modest quotas. In Liguria, however, there is no anaerobic digestion plant. The biological mechanical treatment used only as a form of pre-treatment of waste to be started in landfill has only two plants. Therefore, more than two thirds of waste landfilled is not subject to any form of pre-treatment such as existing legislation, especially Community legislation, would foresee. There is, among other things, no system for the energy exploitation of waste. As far as special waste is concerned, there are important industrial poles in Liguria, for which there is a significant production of chemical and iron and steel waste, as well as production of waste from port activity, the shipbuilding sector and the production of electricity. To these must be added inert waste from construction and demolition, asbestos waste and those from land and excavation rocks. This type of waste represents a sensitive point for this region, especially considering the great works under development. These are huge quantities: almost 16 million cubic metres of land and excavation rocks used as by-products and two million cubic metres managed as waste. There are essentially two important issues on the Liguria case: on the one hand, the lack of adequate plant engineering; on the other hand, the lack of effective governance and an overall waste management strategy. The operators are several dozen, fragmented on the territory, with mixed situations and manifest a general inadequacy of the system. The situation that weighs today on the metropolitan city of Genoa and the Region is that of a serious delay in the pursuit of the differentiated objectives and of a persistent diseconomic and environmentally negative system, based on the transfer of the waste. All this clearly involves a possible field of cultivation of forms of widespread lawlessness and criminal infiltrations, more or less organized. In January 2015, the new Waste Management Plan was presented to the Bicameral Commission, which was subsequently integrated and approved in March 2015 and notified to the Ministry. This Plan is based on the identification of the unique regional area, divided into territorial areas corresponding to the territory of the metropolitan city of Genoa and the three Provinces of Imperia, Savona and La Spezia. It contains guidelines and strategies for the management of municipal waste, special waste and clean-up operations to be carried out by 2020, indicating how the system will move overall towards the objectives set at Community and national level. It also identifies the Region as the field authority for the government of the waste cycle, through a committee of scope constituted by the president of the Regional Council, the mayor of the metropolitan city and the presidents of the Provinces, leaving the most precise definition of the choices both from the technological point of view, that of localization, to the next plan of field. Urban waste water treatment plants reflect the distribution of the population: there are large installations in coastal areas and small installations in the hinterland. More than one third of these shortcomings in compliance with the legislation; there are inadequate installations, but authorized in the more than one-third of the adaptation, while other suitable ones are waiting for authorisation. The Liguria faces the sea with the two great ports of Genoa and La Spezia, which - as we know - are among the largest ports in Italy; a third port is that of Savona. These ports, having behind them the whole Padano-Alpina area, with the great productive realities of the North, constitute a territory particularly sensitive to international traffic, also of illegal nature. Between the authorities that supply activities of contrast to the illegal activities in harbour area (Capitanerie of Port and the Agency of the customs) and the judicial police, let alone the procures of the Republic, has found from the Commission an effective and effective collaboration, that it has allowed to highlight the important dimensions and increase of the phenomenon of the transboundary traffic of the waste; a real phenomenon of environmental dumping, to work of subjects often foreign, with the correness of Italian intermediaries, that it leads to circumvent the Italian norms on the waste, organizing the transfer abroad, where disciplines more permissive or less capable of control become the useful place where to carry out activities of exploitation of the refusal through highly polluting modalities, with the final uncontrolled abandonment of the residues. All this has a negative impact on the national economic circuit, since the economy of our country is taken away a large amount of matter to be allocated to recycling and reuse. There are, among other things, two major challenges in this mechanism to combat cross-border traffic. First of all, there is a huge amount of material which also goes through other routes, as well as ports; it comes mainly from the Balkans, on a rubber basis, for example, and escapes normal controls. The other criticality found - on which our Commission has made an important note and will invite the Government to attend to such problematic - regards the lack of access from the Agencies of the customs and the Harbour offices to the database of the Ministry of the inside; therefore, the news of crime ascertained from the Agencies of the customs and the Harbour offices are not recorded and passed to the police of earth and vice versa. This leads to a lack of knowledge of those who are trying to carry out these cross-border trade. The current efficiency of the system is based above all on the extraordinary capacity of the persons in charge and on their good will and experience; but there is an organisational vulnus of the mechanism that should be adhered to. In conclusion, I am certainly obliged to thank the officials of the bicameral committee of inquiry on the waste cycle, in particular Dr Battarino, who was an excellent and extraordinary collaborator. I would also like to thank our President, Alessandro Bratti, all my fellow Members, and especially my colleague Mario Morgoni, who spoke with me about Liguria and dealt more specifically with all the various sites: I believe that with his speech he can further complete this picture on Liguria. [[Applause from Senator Puppato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u22	I call Senator Arrigoni to explain documents XXIII, nos. 9 and 11.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Undersecretary, I would have liked to stress the importance and the opportunity of the fact that today four reports by a parliamentary committee of inquiry are being discussed in the Senate House. Unfortunately, the unjustified pressure on time will not allow a broad debate, aimed at greater information, transparency and therefore awareness on the part of you colleagues of some situations, even serious, complex and problematic, present on national territory. The quota of the times will be able to allow general reasoning on the future of the chemistry of our country, an industrial sector great protagonist of the past, that exactly one hundred years ago, in 1916, had given rise to the first form of association between the enterprises. I am thinking, for example, of questions about ENI's future commitment to chemistry. But that's it. Let's keep going. The Commission, which started its work in September 2014, is making territorial and thematic studies, such as the one on Liguria, such as the one on radioactive waste management and the one on the very sensitive issue of the reclamations of the 40 sites of national interest (SIN), of which we are discussing today two reports. This is because of the positive choice not to proceed - as has been done in the past - with a single reconnaissance report, which would only see the light at the end of the legislature, but rather to prefer the examination of the most important individual sites through specific insights. This is the case of the situation we will discuss today with regard to the site of national interest of Porto Marghera and the next one of the so-called quadrilateral of chemistry. the report on the reclamation of the SIN of Porto Marghera is approved unanimously from the Commission last 10 December 2015. The site of Marghera is part, from a productive point of view, of the important quadrilateral of chemistry. Marghera was definitely one of the country's most important industrial sites with regard to chemistry. The chemical industry, as is known, as the root of every other, if on the one hand it has been the basis of the development of the whole industry and protagonist of the progress of our country, on the other hand it has also left complex inheritances with which we have to deal today. The site of Porto Marghera became SIN as early as 1998, with Law No. 426. At the beginning the area was large and comprised more than 3,200 hectares of land areas, 350 hectares of port canals and covered 2,200 hectares of lagoon area; today the SIN, based on a whole series of interventions and re-perimetrations, is about 1,620 hectares. The impacting spectrum of the contaminants found is the result of an industrial heritage and the way to produce in the past: various types of metals have been found in the soils, as well as in the groundwater, where, in addition to metals, aromatic hydrocarbons have also been found. It is, therefore, a very strong pollution process, which has seen various bodies engaged since 1998 in an effort to secure and clean up the site. A first programme agreement of 1998 was followed in 2004 by a masterplan involving a little 'all institutional actors and which provided for the permanent security of Porto Marghera; then other programme agreements were drawn up, including the significant one of 2012 and the last of 2015. Among the various agreements is significant that of 2006 which referred to the magistrate of the waters of Venice and its dealership, the Consorzio Venezia Nuova, just the one known to the sad news for the issues related to the work of the MOSE; issues not independent, but indeed strongly intertwined with those of the reclamation of the site of Porto Marghera. As a Commission, we saw first of all the existence of a transactive procedure whereby the State obtained more than EUR 500 million in order to be able to proceed with the reclamations that the State - alas - has not yet completed, which means that there are still several environmental problems, for example the issue of margins. As far as the safety of the macro-islands is concerned, which divide this very vast area through the laying of poles that realize the so-called margins to prevent the pollutants from going out in the lagoon, to date the State has supported a total expenditure of more than 780 million euros, of which, as said, more than 500 derive from the transactions made with the companies that have polluted the most. As a matter of fact, 94 percent of the planned works were made in terms of their length. The result is still about 3.5 kilometers, corresponding to 5-6 percent. What it notes, unfortunately, is that in order to achieve what, at a summary reading, would seem a residual part of the missing works actually serve some 250 million euros of state resources, a disproportionate amount compared to what was spent, but justified by the fact that they are missing (in fact, they have been left for last) just all the more complex areas, for example those where the substations pass. In essence, we are faced with imposing works of marginalisation but which have several openings that, in the current state, frustrate the objective of isolating these islands of the lagoon. As a result of what has been achieved, which we could symbolically define as a cholabrode, the pollutants in fact continue to leave and the draining system becomes absolutely inefficient and ineffective. This is a significant statement, which I would call embarrassing, by the current Public Works Provider, an audit by the Commission, which has spoken of failure to monitor the works carried out. In fact, the work has been awarded without public evidence, in spite of any kind of Italian and European legislation and there has been no verification and control of the state of the work. As a Commission with great concern, we have pointed out this absurd and delicate situation which, inevitably, must call everyone to a sense of responsibility. This regardless of the faults of those who have not adequately carried out that work, because the risk that pollution will continue and above all that the litigation between the State and the companies that have paid, through the transactions, the consideration for the emergency of the Bonifici is very strong. To date, the funds available are absolutely insufficient to complete that work. In fact, through the instalments of transactions already signed with the different companies, which end approximately in 2023, it is assumed that they can reach a maximum of 30 million euros, well away from the 250 necessary. The lack of reclamation and safety of Porto Marghera represents a serious obstacle for a process for reindustrialization of that area, which also presents many manifestations of interest by private individuals. This is an obstacle that cannot be implied and that must be removed by this Government. One last issue to which the Commission has paid a great deal of attention concerns an administrative problem and is that of the testing of the surrounding works. About EUR 2 million of partial tests have been spent and cleared, allocated through dozens of commissions to ministerial and local officials who have tried the work to pieces, without ever reaching a general and definitive test. This is, in the Commission's view, EUR 2 million spent very badly. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this short summary is the work that has been carried out by the Commission and which is now available to the various political forces for appropriate consideration. We now hope, given that it is the objective we have set ourselves as the Commission, that these complaints, including through the adoption of a resolution, will turn for those who must - first of all the Government - into concrete acts to try to resolve the problem denounced. It is not only a matter of safeguarding the work done on the margins, which risks being compromised if it is not completed, but above all because it would be suicidal to prevent a revival of an important strategic industrial area not only for the Veneto Region and the Province of Venice, but for the entire country. Before concluding the presentation of this report, I would like to stress that all the political groups have worked well to achieve the results contained in it. In addition, I would like above all to thank the people who have made possible the demanding and complicated work that has been carried out, therefore, all the offices, consultants, representatives of the Forces of the Order and, above all, Dr Castellano and Dr Battarino, the two magistrates who have been a reference point of this report and of the one on the Quadrilatero, which I am going to illustrate. From the report on the so-called North Quadrilateral of chemical poles, which was also unanimously approved on 9 February, it is clear that the safety and clean-up of contaminated industrial sites involve an urgent need for intervention, both for the need to eliminate sources of pollution in soils, subsoils, surface water and groundwater, in order to ensure the protection of the environment and the health of citizens, and to allow the reindustrialisation of strategically positioned areas and adequately enslaved by infrastructure, in order to ensure the industrial development of the country, while defending the need to avoid further consumption of agricultural land. The so-called Quadrilatero of the North of the chemical industry, formed by the poles of Venice, Porto Marghera, Mantua, Ferrara and Ravenna, has represented from the beginning of the twentieth century - I repeat - the history and excellence of the chemical sector of our country, which in the past, in the most pushed phase of the industrialization of the twentieth century, has created employment, well-being, development and investments, but has also left inherit a consistent environmental pollution that must be solved in the best of ways and with urgency. The Commission's specific report sets out the different methodologies of approach adopted by the Government and the local authorities for the management of the reclamation of individual sites, with the aim - hopefully - of directing the choices of the Government and the Parliament towards the most effective resolution of the problems encountered. The freeing of responsibility between the public bodies involved, the absolute complexity and fragmentation of the legislation in the field of subsidies, the mutual accusations between the public and private sector on the timing, the restrictive limits and the difficulties of controls have often hindered the reclamation operations and administrative procedures in order to lead to endless judicial proceedings that have blocked the activities. I would point out that there are not only dilatory techniques undertaken by companies involved in the reclamation processes that challenge before the TAR the measures of the public administration or even those exited from the Conferences of the services, with the aim of avoiding the necessary investments according to the prescribed ones. Often on the private side, administrative litigation is intended - sometimes rightly - as a form of protection rendered necessary by requirements deemed unworkable, unreasonable or even solely resulting from technical inadequateness of the tables or from inadequate technical-legal conduct of the Conferences and of relations between the parties. We are confident that the introduction of the penal code of non-reclamation will be an important lever in the hands of the judiciary in order to ensure greater respect for the procedures in place for securing and reclamation. Undoubtedly, to date the lack of resources has been the greatest obstacle to the conclusion of the reclamation activities. It has been found that, where private interest remains in the sites for the continuation of industrial activities, with an accompanying private financial commitment, the reclamation activities proceed with positive results, while slowing down until otherwise, due to the lack of public resources. The two examples/reclamation models of the sites of Ferrara and Ravenna, which are not sites of national importance and fall within the exclusive regional and local competence, have shown the importance of organizing an effective interlocation between the private industries active on the site and the public administration, through programme agreements, and have demonstrated the great importance that can have the constructive dialogue between the parties and the reduction of the number and distance from the territory of the public interlocutors; to this is added the indispensable necessity of the permanence of the industrial activities in the sites and the perspective of the reuse of the areas for productive activities. In these two sites of regional interest, with the programme agreements between local authorities and enterprises, the reclamations have proceeded at satisfactory levels, because in both cases the enterprises have constituted a single body that acts as interlocutor with the public part, that is Region and local authorities. On the contrary, the activities of reclamation of the SIN of Venice-Porto Marghera (the other model) have revealed all the deficiencies and distortions of the elephant-centralized bureaucratic-administrative system, with waste of public resources, irregularities in the award of contracts and bad organization of investments. Of course, Porto Marghera is a reality very different from that of the two sites of Ferrara and Ravenna, in particular for the extent of the polluted area and for the peculiarity of the characteristics of the lagoon site. But the most obvious problem - certainly connected to the illogical and ineffective parcelling of the competences in the execution of the works of marginalization (and remaking of the banks of the lagoon macro-islands) divided between the Provveditorato, the Veneto Region and the harbour Authority, while being the economic burdens at the expense of the Ministry of the environment - is represented from the requirement of an immediate ulterior appropriation of 250 million from the Government in order to complete the marginalizations; otherwise, the weakening of the terminal traits of the marginalizations already carried out, with serious prejudice for the complex of the works that until today have involved, as I have said, an expense for the State of approximately 780 million euros. The SIN Laghi di Mantova e Polo chimica has instead highlighted a very composite reality, with a plurality of private subjects that often do not relate to each other, with projects and a plurality of interventions of public subjects having asymmetric roles and difficulties to organize an effective and non-confrontal interlocation between the public administration and the private subjects involved. This situation has created a series of court disputes that have delayed the activities, leaving unsolved enormous problems of pollution of the aquifer. As the Commission of Inquiry has pointed out in the approved report, it is essential that the government allocates the necessary funding for the conclusion of the reclamation activities, because the industrial conversion of the sites and the development of the chemical sector in our country depends precisely on the implementation of the reclamations. On the other hand, there must also be an active role and result of the public administration and in particular of the Ministry of the Environment, with a high technical and constructive interlocation capacity with local authorities and private entities. In addition, a question that the Group of the North League and Autonomous League has repeatedly highlighted and posed, even with specific amendments to the law of stability (ahimè, rejected), and which was represented to the Government also by the Commission of Inquiry, is that of the need to provide for the exclusion from the balances entered in order to respect the public finance constraints of the resources destined by the local authorities to the reclamations. We believe that such a forecast could provide concrete support for the reclamation of a number of smaller polluted sites scattered throughout the territory that represent important issues for the territorial realities and for the protection of the health of the citizens. I will conclude, Mr President, with the hope that the report of the Committee of Inquiry will serve as a stimulus for the Government for a more effective management of the reclamation operations of the SIN, for the industrial conversion of the areas of the Country and the relaunch of the chemical and technological research sector in our country. [[Applause from Senators Companione and Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u24	On behalf of the Assembly, I address a greeting to the students and teachers of the State Higher Institute "Leonardo da Vinci" in Rome, who are following the Senate's work from the forums. We thank them for their visit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u25	I declare the joint debate open. Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u26	Mr President, I too am beginning by deprecating this quota of the times of general discussion, because I think it is truly unrespectful of minorities. This is not the way to proceed: too little time for such important matters. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] The management and safety of radioactive waste is still an unresolved problem. It is such a complicated subject that even the Berlusconi Government stumbled in 2003 in front of the force of a peaceful protest, which lasted 15 long days against the imposition of a nuclear waste depot in Scanzano Jonico, Basilicata. Since then many years have passed but very little has changed, in the sense that the waste to be managed is there and are the same as always. Governments that have followed, due to inability or lack of will, have not addressed the topic for which we are still looking for solutions. Perhaps the theme for politics is too unpopular and unelectoral, so you prefer to move the hot potato further and further. The consequences of this indifference are dangerous and costly. Dangerous to the health of citizens living together with nuclear centres, since, according to the Higher Institute of Health (ISS), there are high rates of deaths due to diseases related to exposure to ionizing radiation in common nuclear plant sites. I would remind you that this research by the ISS concerned the mortality of populations living in eight Italian towns facing research sites or radioactive material deposits. The events in Latina in these last days and those that happened previously in the other centers should make us understand how important it is to intervene urgently. Instead, due to the irresponsibility of the Government and to internal problems to the governance of Sogin, several times brought by the undersigned in 10a Commission to the attention of the President and his colleagues, we continue irresistibly to postpone the solutions, with a delay of the decommissioning programs that generated an increase in the expenditure forecasts, from the total estimated 4.35 billion euros in 2006 to the estimated 6,7 billion in 2011, net of the costs of the realization of the national deposit, estimated at 1,5 billion euros. They are costs borne by citizens through a specific tariff component (A2) in the electricity bill, a bill that will also increase for the closure of the protected market, one of the few things that worked in Italy. Too bad. As reported in the resolution, the general programmes approved in 2013 by the new Sogin bodies show, compared to the previous programming, a shift in the dismantling deadline ranging from a minimum of two to a maximum of nine years, depending on the nuclear site referred to. The lengthening of the time is determined by a series of failures within the process of the safety activity, of which, for lack of time, I will mention only a few. There is the inadequacy of the control structure, currently in the hands of the environmental protection agency ISPRA: the department entrusted with the tasks of the nuclear safety authority has seen, over the last six years, more than half the technical staff of which it had, while representing, to date, the only existing national competences in the field of regulation and control of nuclear activities. This shortage of staff also projects difficulties on the future of ISIN, the inspectorate established by Legislative Decree No. 45 of 2014 to carry out the functions entrusted today to ISPRA, which should, according to the law establishing, have a staff of sixty technicians. But there is another even more serious problem: the institution of ISIN is blocked by the appointment of its director, identified by the Government in Antonio Agostini according to a trusted criterion. Agostini has a professional profile strongly criticized for the incompatibility with the role he should play and the lack of technical and scientific skills instead mandatory prescribed by the Community Directive. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this appointment is blocked with a precise responsibility of the President of the Council, who has invested Agostini for a mere trust criterion. There is also a lack of the national programme, the essential instrument for planning how we want to solve this problem; an instrument that we need to implement Directive 2011/60/Euratom, which required each Member State to prepare and transmit to the European Commission, by 23 August 2015, a national programme for the management of irradiated nuclear fuel and radioactive waste. We hope that this programme will be put in consultation as soon as possible, in which the participation and involvement of the populations concerned is envisaged. Further delays in the definition of this essential programme are likely to lead to this state of non-compliance on the problem, among other things leading to the opening of yet another infringement procedure by the European Commission. In conclusion, Mr President, we are curious to know whether at the Washington Summit on nuclear safety, the President of the Renzi Council will explain the real situation we are facing, so we are faced with an Italy that has not done the prescribed tasks and is stalled, precisely because of the responsibility of the Renzi Government, because of the above affair - the blockade for the appointment of Agostini - or if it will tell the usual fairy tale for which everything goes well in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u27	Senator Morgoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u28	Mr President, I too would like to begin by thanking my colleague, Mr Compagnone, my colleagues in the Committee of Inquiry into waste and the consultants and technicians who have helped to draw up and draft the accurate report on the case of Liguria. The Commission, in its work, has examined the criticalities on which police and prevention activities have focused, essentially consisting of the handling of waste with other regions, the reclamation activities and the management of excavation materials, such as rocks and lands. In general terms, we can say that in this region we see the presence of three phenomena: a fairly widespread and uniform microillegality, the environmental illicits deriving from the management of large plants and the risks of permeability of the system, especially in the companies that deal with waste management on behalf of the municipalities. Permeability is mainly corruptive and not linked to organised crime. The extreme fragmentation in waste management has already been underlined: until a couple of years ago there were about 40 private operators, dealing with waste management and today this reality is halved. This fragmentation, which continues to characterize the system of Liguria, represents a point of access for illegal interests, as well as a system centered on landfills, which in many cases survive to themselves, can become a food of important illicit interests. In any case, the parcelling of the services also has a further negative relapse, as it certainly does not facilitate the control activity by the police, because this plurality and multiplicity of subjects undoubtedly makes the activity of contrasting to illegality more difficult. All these factors call for a rationalization of management, which obviously derives from effective planning, but also from a concrete capacity to implement it. Moreover, the constant emerging state that has characterized Liguria in recent years and the high economic interests end up facilitating, in the presence of procedures often adopted in an emergency, a management not completely transparent of the contracts. We cannot speak in Liguria of a widespread and pervasive presence of organized crime in the waste sector, but undoubtedly there are attempts to infiltrate the social and economic fabric, perpetrated in an inconspicuous way and taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the legal economy, such as the custody of contracts and subcontracting services, including those related to waste disposal. In any case, in Liguria the survey "The turning point" was a worrying signal regarding the presence of organised crime, although on other sides and not on that of waste. In that investigation was involved, for example, the Pellegrino family, which had interests in the field of earth movement, that is in an area related to excavations, which requires a very low know-how and is closely related to the topic of waste, as I will say later. For example, in the works of the Third Jupiter Pass there will be the bestowal of about 5 or 6 million cubic meters of material, in over ten sites, quarries and ex quarries. The Commission's work has shown that it is also urged to increase road control of the transport of waste, since those who transport waste illegally operate in black, without registration of environmental operators and therefore without access to disposal and recovery facilities. In this problematic context, however, there is a strong capacity for collaboration and interaction between the different realities called to deal with the illicit waste management. Nevertheless, all police forces have pointed out the usefulness of even closer coordination between those who have the competence of prevention and judicial police in this area. There are examples of good practice in Liguria in this regard, but perhaps more incisive responses should be given with appropriate regulatory interventions to this important need. Also in Liguria the Commission has verified the criticality constituted by the allocation of competences to the district prosecutors of the crime referred to in Article 260 of the Single Environmental Text. Obviously, the matter is controversial, but a negative judgment prevails on this attribution, as there is a deprivation of territorial prosecutors of the possibility to act and intervene on facts where, obviously, the connection with the territory is an important factor. I do not dwell on some important judicial events, such as that of the Tyrrhenian Power of Vado Ligure, the story Pitelli or Cogoleto-Stoppani on which the Commission has nevertheless committed itself, to go instead to an assessment of a synthetic and overall character. In this context of objective criticality, the fragility of the territory, both from the morphological and orographic point of view, the large and medium-sized ports and the being a border territory are objective elements of criticality. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] However, there has been an amplification of these criticalities due to a lack of overall strategy, inadequate system governance, weakness of the administrative functions of verification and control. AIROLA (M5S). They arrested the mayors in Vado Ligure! Mr Morzoni (PD). I'm sorry, if you'll kindly let me finish...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u29	Senator Airola, let the colleague speak. I'll call you back to order. AIROLA (M5S). You've been arrested by the mayor. He's under investigation. You killed people in Vado Ligure. You're thugs! Criminals! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Morgoni, continue your intervention and don't interrupt. Stop! Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order for the second time. You can't scream! Let the co-worker finish. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Calm down. AIROLA (M5S). Criminals! Mr Caleo (PD). How dare you? Come here and tell me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, you can't do this. I call you to order and stay in your place if you do not have to be removed from the Chamber. A colleague's talking. She's not talking. You're insulting. AIROLA (M5S). Mr. President, Senator Caleo gave me a gimmick. Criminals! [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on the quaestors to intervene in order to prevent expulsion. Senator Morgoni, I renew your invitation to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u30	As I said, the criticalities present in the Ligurian system have unfortunately been amplified by a number of factors such as the lack of an overall strategy, a weakness of the administrative functions of verification and control, a permanence of the landfill as the carrier axis of the disposal of the waste, as well as the recalled fragmentation of the managements and a dramatic inadequacy of the plant. AIROLA (M5S). Murderers! Mr Caleo (PD). But it's not tolerable!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u31	Senator Airola, consider whether it is appropriate, before being removed, to leave the Chamber accompanied by Senators Quaestors, avoiding this provocative attitude. I really don't understand what happened to her. If he wanted to intervene, he could have signed up to talk. Let's let Senator Morgoni finish. AIROLA (M5S). These four clowns! I go Ligure is the key word! Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, you can't let anything happen. We must maintain order in this House! Mr Lucherini (PD). Get him out! MIRABELLI (PD). Can we or can we not speak in this House? That's not possible! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Morgoni, finish your speech. We've already given her extra minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u32	Thank you. I try to conclude, however, by saying that, with the new regional waste plan, which the Region has been endowed with since last year, there is the tool to be able to address these critical issues. [[Comments from PD and M5S Groups]] Mr Albano (PD). Stop! Mr Morzoni (PD). Of course, we need to act quickly, with concrete actions, on the basis of the strategic lines that have been drawn up, but we also need to be aware that no technical-organizational choice can in itself be decisive, without the ambition and objective of a new pact involving institutions, entrepreneurship and citizens in a different approach to the issue of waste. Participation, access to information, transparency, accountability and innovation are the parameters on which the will to change the course of a ruling class is measured. The circular economy, which almost commits us to cancel the notion of rejection, radically rethinking the use of resources, can be, precisely for Liguria, the opportunity of a new beginning in the management of the waste cycle. A region with a territory where fragility and beauty are combined and which has the tourist welcome in its DNA cannot evade a challenge that directly calls into question the quality of the environment. A challenge that cannot be without the commitment, concreteness and seriousness of the public authorities in the broad sense, but also the awareness and maturity of citizens and economic operators [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u34	About what, Senator? Mr Maturani (PD). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Then contribute to the order of business, because there are already those who have contributed to the non-order.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u35	[[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] Let me conduct the work. Mr Maturani (PD). Mr President, let me speak before I recommend that I speak in order to contribute to order. I would ask you to speak because it is not acceptable in this House for a Member to be able to address his fellow senators with epithets such as assassins, delinquents, criminals. I think it's intolerable. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] You can also view the labial from the videos, to verify these issues. I believe that the dialectic and the political battle are the salt of democracy, but I also believe that this is absolutely intolerable. I urge you to do so. [[Applause from the PD groups]] , AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] [[Senator Petrocelli points to the Presidency's address to ask for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u36	In fact, there has already been a call and all three quaestors are present in this House. AIROLA (M5S). They're all from me, the Quaestors! Look, I've already been arrested! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u37	Mr President, I would ask that my speech be made so that my colleagues who are members of the Commission do not take time off.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u38	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u39	Mr Albano (PD). I quickly add two words. I would like a little more respect to people in this House: I just talk about respect. AIROLA (M5S). It is you who do not respect this House! It is you who do not respect democracy! It's you!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u40	Senator Airola, at this point you must leave the Chamber. I ask the quaestors to accompany Senator Airola out of the Chamber, because at this point he has exceeded all limits of behavior. [[Applause from the PD Group, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] Senator Airola, go outside, so you'll have the clearest ideas when you get back. I beg the quaestors to proceed, albeit in a polite manner. Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u41	Mr President, the connotations of the Liguria Region, characterized by strong orographical acclivities, extensive urbanization, the presence of similar formations in the subsoil that cause quantities of asbestos-contaminated waste, also in view of the great works in progress, do not justify the serious situation of the management of waste on the regional territory. The Ligurian waste cycle marks a lack of service of separate collection and the lack of plant engineering. (Senator Airola was expelled from the Chamber. Senator Petrocelli is approaching the bench of the Presidency demanding aloud).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u42	Senator Petrocelli, leave the Chamber too. Commissioner, escort Senator Petrocelli out of the Chamber. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] PETROCELLI (M5S). I asked to intervene. I've been asking you for 15 minutes. Your administration of the House is unqualifiable. It is in favour of the majority. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You cannot come before the Presidency to make insults in these terms. My management is absolutely balanced and patient, even too much. Senator Petrocelli, have a seat. SANTANGELO (M5S). What does that mean? You're gonna kick us all out? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you decided this morning to do something like this. Go to your place, Senator Santangelo. PETROCELLI (M5S). You are unqualified as a representative of the institutions. You're unqualified. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petrocelli, you have been removed from the Chamber. Do you understand? I've been too tolerant. SANTANGELO (M5S). No. Let everyone talk instead of censoring. [[Reiterate Senator Petrocelli's protests.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Petrocelli, you have been removed from the Chamber, tell the agencies. Senator Arrigoni was talking. SANTANGELO (M5S). You have to be ashamed. You have to make everyone talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, go in your place. Please, Senator Arrigoni. PETROCELLI (M5S). Manage this House in an improbable way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petrocelli, you've been removed from work. PETROCELLI (M5S). It's a good thing you're opposition! On the other hand, it has been since the beginning of the legislature that you have been chubby and chubby. Get lost! The dialectic of political correctness is the prerogative of power. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I am with the Rules of Procedure and this is not something that can be insulted. There was perhaps too much tolerance, because dialectic exists, systematic insult does not. You have been removed from the Chamber, I ask the Senators Quaestors to cooperate. [[Protests of Senators Petrocelli and Santangelo]] I suspend the session until those who have been expelled have gone away. (The sitting was suspended at 10.44 a.m. and resumed at 10.50 a.m.) The session is resumed. I beg Senator Arrigoni to resume his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u43	Mr President, as I said, the Ligurian waste cycle marks a lack of separate collection service and a lack of plant engineering. There are no waste-to-energy heaters, despite the incineration requirement of 235,000 tonnes per year, and there are no recovery, composting and pre-treatment plants. However, waste management is heavily dependent on landfills, which are currently running out, and on the systematic and costly delivery of waste outside the region on the basis of interregional agreements. In Liguria, therefore, there are persistent shortcomings, which in the investigations carried out by the Commission are aggravated by a deep-rooted corruptive system, by forms of widespread illegality and also by criminal infiltrations, which find fertile ground precisely in the criticality of the system. The lack for years of an overall strategy on waste management, which obviously has very precise local political and administrative responsibilities, where without planning for territorial areas the municipalities have delegated themselves, has led this inefficient system to the limit of collapse. The situation in Liguria is even more complicated, in the first place, from the inadequacy to the regulations of many urban waste water treatment plants; secondly, from the judicial events related to the Pitelli landfill, which for twenty years represented the physical terminal of a ramified network dedicated to the sometimes illegal management of industrial and hazardous waste; thirdly, from the illicetities hypothesized in the management of the Tirreno Power power power plant of Vado Ligure, not only for the air pollution produced by the use of coal as fuel, but also for the discharge of water and the management of waste. Finally, there are problems in the management of the SIN of Cogoleto-Stoppani, which prevent environmental reclamation. A personal consideration: the detection of the problems present in Liguria is the result of the great work carried out by the Forest Corps of the State, a police force that, by decision of the Government, should be in the process of merging in the Carabinieri's weapon, but that in fact is in the process of disintegration. The latest news coming from the Unified Conference last March 3 - which on the draft legislative decree, as a delegation of the wider reform of the public administration, has given favourable opinion, but subordinate to the possibility for the staff to be able to transit in the regional forest bodies and that of the autonomous Provinces - is confirmation of what the North League is supporting for a year, that is that we are faced with a real disintegration of the Forest Body, with serious losses of men, professionalism and fundamental competences in order to counter the damage to the environment and agri-food frauds. Given that I have already spoken during the illustration of the reports of the SIN of Porto Marghera and the chemical poles of the so-called Quadrilatero, in the few minutes that remain I express some considerations on radioactive waste, on which I will return more widely in the unfortunately only explanation of vote that will be from me to this topic completely dedicated. The issue of radioactive waste management and related activities is a striking example of some of the structural problems facing our country. The delays and multiple problems highlighted by the Commission relate to: the decommissioning activities of nuclear installations, the identification of the site and the implementation of the national radioactive waste depot; the technical-management capacity of the Nuclear Plant Management Company (SOGIN), which is fully public and controlled by the MEF with MISE address functions; the absence of the national nuclear fuel management programme, which was to be delivered under the Euratom Directive on 23 August 2015; the shortage of staff of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) and the failure to operate the National Nuclear Safety Inspectorate (ISIN). All these problems highlight a situation of paralysis of the administrative procedures in progress, which seriously expose our country to certain European infringement procedures. The Commission has carefully examined the situation, highlighting the shortcomings of the system and, above all, the increase in costs caused by the extension of the decommissioning programmes, which inevitably fall on the final customers of the electricity system, being charged the electricity bill through the tariff component A2. It is worth noting that the 2015 reprogramming of the decommissioning, compared to that made in 2010, leads to an average lengthening of ten years the time necessary for the dismantling of the old power plants and to increase the expected cost to 7 billion. For the Northern League, the serious conditions of shortage of staff in ISPRA are also reflected in the drafting of Technical Guide No 29, by which ISPRA has defined the criteria for the location of the National Deposit of low and medium-activity radioactive waste. The Commission has also expressed doubts as to the particular severity that ISPRA has assigned to the seismicity criterion which, without prejudice to part of Lombardy and Piedmont, essentially excludes the suitability of almost all the national territory to accommodate the National Deposit. It is also considered serious the choice not to take into account the hydrological and hydrogeological aspects of the site, which may give rise to an unacceptable discretion for the location of the deposit. I begin to conclude my speech on the Cemerad case of Statte, in the Province of Taranto, which is an obvious example of the possible consequences of poor management, at all levels, of the situation. In this case a national census of the presence of radioactive substances deposits, the quantities stored, their location, the processes carried out at such deposits, the final disposal methods used, the technical and financial guarantees in place to prevent situations comparable to those which have been created at Cemerad in Statte. Thanks to the intervention and action of the Commission of Inquiry, the Government intervened with substantial funding (10 million euros) for the reclamation of this site. It is hoped that State intervention similar to that implemented for Statte will also be of environmental, protectionist and social value for other situations emerging on the national territory, such as the Premoli case of Rovello Porro. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u44	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in this speech I will comment on documents no. 9 and 11, i.e. the reports of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the state of play of the reclamation work on the site of national interest in Venice-Porto Marghera and on the situation of the chemical pole reclamations, the so-called Northern Quadrilateral, and I reserve the right to comment on the other two documents on the agenda. The reclamation of the SIN of Venice-Porto Marghera is certainly of particular importance and complexity, especially considering the local specificities and the criticalities that unfortunately do not lack. The Commission's work has had ambitious objectives: on the one hand, to ensure an accurate assessment of the situation of the site reclamation work, on the other hand, to redefine the procedures in an orderly and systematic manner, as well as the concrete solutions resulting from the investigation work. The findings and findings in the progress report are not only worrying, but they show that it is necessary to intervene quickly at both local and national level. I would like to remind you, first of all, that if until the mid-1980s there was no control over the circulation of substances from the Porto Marghera industries, today national and international constraints inherent both to the type and to the quantities of discharges impose the use of strict control measures and reduce significantly the polluting potential of the whole area. The strategy of intervention for Porto Marghera has its origins in the program agreement signed on 21 October 1998 and approved by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers in February 1999. This strategy consisted, from the beginning, in the isolation by means of marc with poles of the various macro-islands components of the SIN, in order to isolate the sources of contamination and avoid the further supply into the lagoon of contaminated groundwater. However, to date, the reclamation, for which some €781 million has been spent so far, runs the risk of being invalidated if the work is not completed according to precise procedures. Even more disconcerting is the fact that the failure to complete these works is causing the progressive weakening also of the terminal traits of the structures already realized and is seriously questioning the overall goodness of the interventions carried out so far. Another aspect to be taken into consideration is the industrial redevelopment that concerns the 2,000 hectares of productive, commercial and tertiary settlements that make Porto Marghera one of the largest coastal industrial areas of Europe; in fact, the pollution continues to be fueled precisely by the traits that have not been reclaimed and, therefore, if it will not be done quickly - as well as the President Bratti at the head of the Commission of inquiry of which I am a member - it will be a disaster not only financial and economic, but above all environmental because the existing pollution would become aggravated. The enormous delays accumulated over the years, in the face of a continuous and high environmental risk, have been deepened in the report on the state of pollution and the exposure of the area, where the investigations carried out so far have been considered above all inadequate. It agrees that the financing for necessary measures to secure and reclamation of the areas can no longer be an excuse given the environmental emergency in place. Let's now turn to the report on the Quadrilatero, which covered a greater number of SIN, namely the areas of Venice-Porto Marghera, Ferrara, Mantua and Ravenna. In these different areas, the Commission has found quite different situations in terms of both the degree of pollution detected and the manner and effectiveness in which the serious environmental problems have been addressed. The total area corresponding to the current perimeter of the SIN of Venice-Porto Marghera is 1,621 hectares. From a technical point of view, the spectrum of contaminants found in soils and groundwater is very varied, since in many cases different families of contaminants have been detected. In particular, heavy metals have been found in soils ( arsenic, chromium, mercury, nickel) and aromatic hydrocarbons (IPA); heavy metals, PAHs and organo-chlorinated compounds have been found in groundwater. This is a serious pollution of both soil and groundwater. The origin of this pollution is mainly due to three factors: the advance of the coastline, which was obtained by using processing waste from the first industrial zone, so that there has been pollution from the land of carry-over; the uncontrolled emissions of various substances, mainly chloroderived, including vinyl chloride and PCBs; the relapse of pollutants released into the atmosphere over the years. From the point of view of the interventions it is necessary to emphasize that the actions aimed at the reclamation of the contaminations must be planned in a punctual way and, only after a detailed and representative characterization, must be carried out with constant and not discontinuous commitment. The complex and sometimes non-transparent financial allocations of resources are absolutely to be avoided, without a doubt, the risk of frustrating the commitments and works already carried out, resulting in a waste of public money. The Commission has noted that the office of the Interregional Public Works Council, as the contractor of the works on behalf of the State, has never exercised, nor is it still exercising, any effective control over both the allocation system by the new Venice consortium of subcontracting related to the subsidies, and the adequacy of the fees paid to the subcontractors. The lack of controls allowed the new Venice consortium to award contracts to consortium companies in violation of the rules on tenders, the Code on public contracts and the European directives. The report makes clear all these problems, which also touch on the subject of tests for which substantial funds have been allocated, and which have, on the other hand, been very questionable. Moving on to the SIN of Ferrara, which corresponds to the current chemical pole of Ferrara, called the Petrochemical Multi-Societal Plant, it occupies as a whole an area of more than 250 hectares, in which the concentration of activities related to the chemical industry has determined over time phenomena of contamination of the soil matrix and groundwater. In this case, the reclamation of the area started substantially under ministerial decree no. 471 of 25 October 1999, and then continued between 2012 and 2013 with the redefinition of a risk analysis. In the following years there have been updates and deepenings of some phases, until the years 2014 and 2015. In this case, the MFI Ferrara ScpA, a consortium company established in 2001-2002 by the companies located in the multi-society establishment in order to manage the services, played an important role. The possibility to interact effectively with the outside thanks to the existence of a single consort entity such as MFI Ferrara has involved the drafting of emergency plans and the carrying out of exercises with the involvement of the population. Therefore, an external emergency plan (PEE) and the activation of a Joint Operational Centre (COM) and a Municipal Operational Centre (COC) are planned. The joint companies have independently managed the process of reclamation of the respective soil matrixes and the groundwater, while the project of reclamation of the confined layer has been managed from the beginning in a joint way through the instrument of the consortium MFI Ferrara. According to the statements in the report, work is progressing effectively. It is important to note that the ARPA Emilia-Romagna has intervened positively in all stages of the procedure of reclamation, with surveys and samples taken to validate the results collected by the companies during the investigations and interventions carried out. As for the SIN of Ravenna, it is noted that along the canal Candiano, which extends for about 11 kilometers connecting the city to the sea, in the last sixty years there has been a strong development of industrial activities; in particular, since the fifties has developed one of the most important petrochemical poles in Italy. The companies that have most marked the territory are those located in the area of the former ANIC (now Versalis multi-societal plant) and the former refinery Sarom. The industrial area has, therefore, contamination situations resulting from epochs of productive choices with low environmental attention. The constant trend in service conferences in the face of company design proposals, on the basis of the contaminating substance, has been to resort as little as possible to ex situ landfill disposal. Technologies - which have evolved considerably over the last decade - of in situ reclamation, such as landfarming, have always been preferred, where contamination may have been of organic origin and, therefore, degradable, helping the natural bacterial flora with non-carcinogenic bacterial strains, or at least certified of non pathogenicity, to achieve better results. A total of 27 clean-up procedures have been launched to date, of which 19 have been completed and 8 have been in progress. So, it can be said that the situation is progressing with profit. As for the SIN in Mantua, the situation is quite different. Here, very close to the city (only two kilometers), we have various forms of contamination: from heavy metals, benzene, toluene, xilenes, hydrocarbons. I would point out that contamination is very strong. I would like to point out that the situation on this site is much more serious and is not proceeding as in other cases. Finally, I would like to point out that in recent years we have witnessed above all the safety in emergency and not real Bonifiche on the site of Mantua; in short, there is still a lot to do. I would ask you to attach the remaining part of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator Rossi Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u46	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Commission for doing a truly extraordinary job that will be extremely useful for the future of my region (which I love, so much so that my Group is called Liguria Civica, and you know that I usually talk about my region). Unfortunately, the Commission should already come back, on the basis of yesterday's news that I read: Switch was delegated to the management of plastic, cardboard and hazardous waste (in a series of public contracts honored only in theory). The Switch, according to the pm, in order to collect the maximum commission, resulted in a share of differentiated close to 40 percent, while in the eyes of the investigators it did not exceed 10 percent. Everything falls on the shoulders of the citizens, who have had to pay more. We must look at the situation in Liguria, which concerns waste but also many other events. Who has determined everything that has been denounced by the Commission? From the public administrators, and the primary responsibility for the situation of Genoa is the Democratic Party, which for years has managed with total inability the waste cycle. For years it has been possible to build a heat-to-energy plant in Scarpino. It had practically come to do so, but then the administration changed, a centre-left mayor arrived (not PD), and the project was canceled. And now it's the citizens who pay: 40 million more a year to take the garbage out. But they must pay the politicians who in recent years have been wrong to make the policy of waste, and not always load everything on the shoulders of the citizens, who in Genoa as in La Spezia are those who are paying the most in Italy! Then we clear our conscience by taking the trucks and taking the garbage to the incinerators in other cities. Everyone should be able to handle his "rumenta," as we call it. Unfortunately, this is not the case. The situation is not different, indeed it is exactly the same, in Imperia, where Forza Italia ruled; even, there are two landfills linked to two different currents of Forza Italia. This is what happened in the imperiese. The landfill system has been the same with Forza Italia as with the PD: the entire Ligurian political class is totally incapable and must be commissary in its entirety. Now we can say that the last part of the Region - I do not care what political part it is - has been there for eight months and we cannot yet accuse it, but all the rest of the Ligurian political class, the PD and Forza Italia, has created the disaster of the Liguria waste system. Let's take the case of La Spezia. It has been inflated with clientelism by the party system, especially the Democratic Party. Fortunately, for three or four years there is an administrator who is improving the situation; he sold various parts of the ACAM and I have to say that the numbers are improving, but in order to make square the ACAM accounts it was already thought before bringing the garbage from Genoa to La Spezia. They're all budget games and alchemy. Today in Genoa is a dramatic day: after forty years the Fiera di Genova SpA is closed; it is cleared with the Municipality of Genoa that has a debt of 15 million with the Fair. Yet the Fair liquidates itself to make it converge, with an alchemy, in another company that is Porto Antico SpA. Unfortunately, Liguria must be policed or annexed to other regions, because we no longer have a political class and a ruling class. Since we are the oldest region in Italy, with 48.4 years of average, we also have people who are no longer able to react. And when I scream those lobby tell me everything, those who defend positions of power, from port to other realities; there are only rents of position. The Liguria system collapsed, and it is clear who was in charge in Liguria, between the bank, someone from the center-left, someone from the center-right, and someone else. Today a battle is taking place in Liguria for those who go to recover power in our Region. There are various sides and today, for example, there is also the whole position of Carige, the main bank of our territory, whose majority has just been bought by a great Genoese entrepreneur. Just these days there is an international group, a fund called Apollo, that proposes to buy the damaged debts of Carige and to cover the debt with an OPA and then there is the possibility to bring it together with the other famous four banks. What will be born will be a bank that will probably no longer be tied to the territory. Just as, on the waste system, we have a company, the AMIU, that with the incinerator in Scarpino could have made useful and we are destroying it, in my opinion knowingly, to make it converge within IREN, which will become our master. Unfortunately we have an honest and good person, as everyone says (that in my opinion is the minimum union for politicians), who is Mayor Doria, who is not a poker player and has found himself in front of people with a fur long one meter who threw him out of IREN and fucked us a company. We don't even have that anymore. Therefore, we pay dearly the taxes of the garbage, they take us away the company, we close the Fair of Genoa without a project, with 15 million debts that the City has towards the Fair and also with problems for the employees. We do not know if we will do the Salone Nautico and Euroflora, which brought wealth to our city. We pay 900 euros to get from Genoa to Rome; we no longer have a train that takes less than five hours to go to Rome and an hour and a half, an hour and forty minutes to go to Milan. On what does this depend? By the fact that we're incompetent! [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] We've been run by incapable people and unfortunately politics is cruel; if you happen to be a good politician, a good President of the Region, a good mayor, with this system of the cabbage of the Regions, then perhaps your Region is better, but if you find yourself incompetent, as we had them, they lead you to disaster and what do you pay in the end? Very high taxes and very few services. The city's dirty, because there's not even a project to clean it up. This with regard to the city of Genoa, but it is not only a problem of Genoa. Look at what happened in a city like Sanremo: the nearby Côte d'Azur has five times the tourists fifteen years ago, while Sanremo has five times less tourists than five years ago. Everything was based on the Casino system, which resulted in easy revenue that has collapsed today. Why is the Municipality of Sanremo the municipality with the largest number of civil servants per number of inhabitants? Because they came from 20 to 30 million a year from the profits of the Casino and then away with customerism: let's hire a thousand! Now there are no more profits and the City will fail. This is the situation of a region that does not have a solution, because if yesterday's politicians were incapable they will be even more incapable of today's politicians, because we do not have a political class and a leadership-entrepreneurial class. We just need to be annexed: the only project that can save the Region on the health side, as on the waste system, and that can make it really take off on tourism. Last Sunday, on Easter day, at the Aquarium there was a sea of people. They didn't know where to park, there was no signage, there were no bars or restaurants open in the center. There are two and a half million cruisers coming, buses picking them up to take them to Serravalle's outlet, instead of taking them to our stores! But we're such morons! And when you say that they are offended, these lobbies that have consolidated in Genoa, that they would like a friend which president of the harbour Authority. But what a friend president of the Harbour Authority! The presidents of the harbour authorities, as in the case of the prefects or commanders of the Carabinieri, must arrive to the city to which they are assigned and not to know anyone. They must not get there, put up by friends of friends, to defend the rents of position, to have the docks reassigned, perhaps for sixty years, at shameful prices, which lack a zero compared to the rest of Europe. This is the situation that could raise Liguria. We must be invaded. There are many disastrous situations in our region, which has the worst GDP of the whole of Central and Northern Italy and the highest average age. In Naples the average age is 42,1 years, while in Liguria it is 48,4 years. You can imagine what an average age of six years would mean, including for the health and pension system. I conclude by saying that there is only one solution, which I did not mention, however, in the resolution: the government needs to intervene where there are regions that are clearly unable to manage their problems, through police stations or such systems. There is no other alternative, otherwise the situation will worsen, always and only to the detriment of citizens, who will have fewer services and will have to pay more taxes. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Fucksia and Gambaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u47	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u48	Mr President, the complex and detailed work done by the bicameral Commission, with the reports that have been presented today, is to be seen in a perspective of operational consistency, compared with what has already been done by the same Commission in the previous parliamentary term. It is a work of continuity, which should be read as an overall framework on seemingly different issues, but to which we are called to give a unique and unique response. These reports speak to us of lost years, of poor institutional coordination, of waste of public money, of lack of strategy and vision and, unfortunately, they also talk to us about bad things. The work of inquiry, although articulated in different themes, has a common thread and that is the inability of our country, unfortunately, to deal with the evolution of industrial processes and the need to recover, from an environmental point of view, large and strongly anthropized territories and spaces. The dramatic situation of the waste policies in Liguria, the need for resources for the reclamation and reuse of the so-called Northern Quadrilateral, the waste, the overlapping and the heavy and brake bureaucracy of the events related to Porto Marghera, investigated in depth and documented by fellow Commissioners, are a photograph that we must keep firmly in mind as a warning for our active policies: for this I want to thank the colleagues of the Commission. Therefore we are even more convinced that, even in order to respond to the lack of an overall strategy on waste management in the Liguria region, as the report says, this country needed planned and strategic planning, as provided for in article 35 of the decree unblocks Italy. For this reason we are even more convinced that, also in order to give a response to the assumption of responsibility of those who for years has polluted the so-called Quadrilatero of the North or Porto Marghera, it has been necessary to approve the new criminal discipline on the ecoreati. It is also appropriate for this House's reflection to focus on the long-standing issue of the disposal of radioactive waste. It is a subject that cannot be considered completely addressed with the approval of the report under consideration, but it is a fundamental step in a path of deepening and confrontation with the institutional and para-institutional actors involved. The question of the still non-location of the national waste storage depot, scattered in various temporary storage sites, has always been considered as the priority problem on this side. First of all, I think it is useful that in this context, too, and in the light of what emerges from the Commission's report, we can still ask ourselves about the rightness of certain energy policy choices, such as renouncing nuclear power, also in the light of the very hard commitments that our country has undertaken, by signing, with practically all the countries of the world, the Paris Agreement towards an economy that is becoming less and less dependent on fossil energy sources. On this, however, unfortunately, we cannot go back and today we are reflecting on the times of decommissioning, the costs, the environmental and social impacts of a choice, such as that of the national storage site, difficult and delicate, but inescapable and strategic. In fact, as is clear in this report too, we are fully aware of the criticalities that will affect this procedure, especially in terms of social prejudice to the location of a structure of such value and great - I would like to point out - opportunities. Secondly, the sensitivity of the implementation of such procedures must necessarily involve a level of security, operational transparency and adequate management and organisational capacity. Indeed, as has been widely pointed out, the amount of waste to be managed is significant. We are talking about about about 40,000 cubic meters of material currently present in the provisional sites which, due to regulatory and operational constraints and complex processing procedures, represent one of the weakest points of the entire operating chain. It is clear that, beyond the difficulties of identifying a definitive site, what still conditions the debate and raises doubts must be sought in the slowness of the current decommissioning cycles of existing nuclear installations, the scarcity of resources and, above all, the permanent lack of clarity on the control system and the competent authority. The National Nuclear Safety and Radiation Inspectorate, which has not yet been fully operational, can no longer remain an intention on paper. ISPRA, as clearly emerged from the hearings, is playing a role that is not its own. It does it well and with maximum commitment, but without adequate structures and unfortunately without adequate resources. It is a priority in this regard to define the case of Isin, ratifying the appointment of its director and starting its activity, and to plan a strong and renewed involvement and a reinforced responsibility of the two technical actors involved such as Sogin and ISPRA. In this perspective, it seems a priority to allow the overcoming of the operating deadlock that continues to condition the Sogin, especially with regard to the current limits of its governance, which in fact require the government to take a position, fast. This is a problem that we cannot overlook. On this point we must be aware that limiting the operation of the Sogin involves an incomprehensible containment of its potential, especially in terms of operations in projects of international scope that can also bring added value in terms of credibility and trust in the capacity of our country. Another aspect that has been addressed here is the delay in the publication of the National Charter of Areas potentially suitable for hosting the national deposit, and on this point, reaffirming the above, I fully share the concern expressed in the Commission's report, also because, as has been clearly pointed out, the deleterious effect that continuous referrals can determine on the image of credibility and transparency of the whole initiative. As has been widely said before, Italy has transposed in 2014 the European Directive establishing a framework for the responsible and safe management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, but it cannot be overlooked the delay that has matured in the context of the obligation to transmit to the European Commission the National Plan provided for by the Directive itself, also because of the Italian commitments with Legislative Decree No. 45 of 2014, with which it was even established the approval of the Plan by 31 December 2014 thus anticipating the deadlines. A lack which, at a difficult time such as this for Europe and the world in terms of security, we have a duty to heal without continuing to bail. Therefore, in conclusion, I believe that the work carried out so far must certainly be considered commendable because it clearly encompasses all the limitations, criticalities and flaws of a system, but of which today we begin to be truly aware. I believe that the priority is to give the right importance to these issues and to give compliance with the commitments entered into, not only to give credibility to our country, but also to give due attention to security demands that for too long have been subordinate to other priorities and sacrificed on the altar of administrative superficiality, which this country - I say reluctantly - cannot really be allowed anymore. A truly credible country should no longer be witnessing the continuous spread of raving populisms and improvised and confused ecological banalizations such as the ones we witnessed this morning. [[Applause from Senator Caleo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u49	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u50	Mr President, in the heart of the Venice lagoon for decades, companies such as Montefibre, Syndial, Dow, Polymeri Europa, Transped, Eni SpA, Edison, Interporto di Venezia, Petroven, Api and Tresformazioni have been operating. The legacy in one of the most beautiful and fragile environments on the planet is very heavy: more than 3,200 hectares of land involved; only half of it has returned to the site of national interest; 1,621 hectares polluted by arsenic, chromium, mercury, nickel, hydrogenated and aromatic hydrocarbons, vinyl chloride, mutagenic chloride. How is that possible? Mr President, the poisons emitted in the atmosphere do not disappear: they fall to the ground and accumulate. Others were put directly into the soil and water. Pollution materials have even been deposited along the shores, to the point where the coast limit has been pushed forward. We have 35 billion euros of environmental damage, but the way of environmental reclamation in this country is paved with waste of public money and corruption. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] I would like to thank the Committee of Inquiry which has shed light on these scandals. The "Sentieri" ratio showed an increase in some cancer cases among resident citizens. Now we need a targeted epidemiological study on the impacts of workers and the most exposed people. It is due to the restoration of the environment for future generations and must be paid to the full. Unfortunately in Marghera the law on environmental crimes, strongly wanted by the 5 Star Movement, which finally establishes the crime of omission reclamation, arrives late: the responsible companies have arrived to a transaction, they have paid a figure and it is the State, now, to have to provide. But they paid 565 million out of the 781 spent so far; the rest comes from the Ministry of the Environment, that is from the taxes of the Italians, and for this the expenditure had to be careful. Instead, it is not understood why, the management has been dispersed between Veneto Region, harbour authority, interregional provision. It is not understood how the infamous consortium "Venice nuova" (New Venice), commissioner for the MOSE scandal, has awarded sub-contracts without competition, without even pre-established rules. No one checked that the figures were adequate. How were these subcontractings made? The result is interventions in scattered and incomplete order, but each with its useless testing. In fact, useful to those who did it: dozens of committees of evaluators, sometimes in conflict of interest or awarded for this fundamental job with a position of executive in the Ministry, as in the case of Gaia Checcucci. They cost us a million and a half, without telling us anything about the expected result. The programme agreement provided for a final test; only that will tell us whether the integrated intervention complex works. The soil is now like a sponge soaked in poison. An attempt has been made to isolate it by creating a network of drainages that conveys polluted water to purification. But until the work is complete heavy metals, hydrocarbons, dioxins and other toxic and carcinogenic substances continue to filter into the lagoon. And environmental contamination and health risks for the population are worsening. What, then, is missing to complete this intervention? Five percent of the jobs, but they cost 30% of the entire work, because the costs have risen and no one has checked the contracts. The money is gone and the most complex and delicate works are missing. The State has bargained with private individuals a figure lower than the costs; then it has also wasted that little. Private individuals are safe, however, because a clause makes it clear that private individuals can no longer be held liable if the State does not provide. Marghera, however, lacks 250 million, and if you do not finish the work you risk even compromising the works already implemented. The government has not demanded enough from private individuals, and the funds must be found by the President of the Council, who has allowed himself to steal 300 million from Italians. Ask a citizen whether or not the waste is legalized theft. The government has wasted 300 million euros refusing to merge the referendum against oil drilling in the local elections; a sacrosanct referendum against an activity that renders nothing to Italy, which has the mining taxes ridiculous, but compromises health, fishing, agriculture, tourism, which are our real mines. Renzi was afraid of losing the administration if more people had gone to vote and if the referendum reaches the quorum, he also loses face; for this reason he wanted two separate elections. In order to guarantee the interests of the polluting oil lobby, he wasted the money to repair the damage of another polluting lobby in Venice. Now 250 million for Venice, for the restoration of the lagoon, must find them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caleo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u52	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the territorial report on the Liguria Region approved by the Bicameral Committee of Inquiry into the Waste Cycle is the result of an in-depth investigation, the result of the numerous hearings of various public and private subjects, of the surveys on sites of interest and of the analysis of 113 documents acquired from various sources. I would like to thank the rapporteurs and all the Commissioners for their work, not only for Liguria, but for all the regions that have been visited and for all the merits of the issues addressed. The picture that emerges in Liguria is quite complex and problematic: from the absence, for more than a decade, of a total strategic planning on waste management, to a fragmented management of the waste collection activity, very often left to the municipalities, and therefore more permeable, in individual contexts, of little transparent interests; from a management based mainly on landfilling, with deficits of pre-treatment plants as well as with low and unsatisfactory levels of differentiated collection, to an insufficient plant equipment, as has been rightly reported in the report. This applies to municipal waste management. Problems also arise in the management of special waste, in particular for the production and management of inert waste from construction and demolition, waste contaminated with asbestos and land and excavation rocks, also considered the progress of major works. The management of waste water treatment plants is also lacking, while with regard to the situation of Ligurian ports, the elements collected by the Commission have shown the significant and growing size of the phenomenon of cross-border waste traffic. The President of the Commission, Ecomafie Bratti, says that there is no doubt that the absence of a regional strategy and the lack of plant choices have led to the proliferation of criminal phenomena (not necessarily of a mafia nature) such as, for example, corrupting public administration activities. The approval of the regional waste management plan and the regional law amending the responsibilities for the governance of the waste cycle, by the previous junta Burlando, was the first important step in overcoming - in line with the European and national guidelines - the critical issues highlighted in the report. On the same measures the Commission of Inquiry had, however, grasped the shortcomings that can certainly result in corrective action. What worries me is that the new regional government, in order to give a signal of discontinuity with the activity of the previous Junta, renders null the important steps taken so far, with the danger that in the Region this state of emergency will continue further. Liguria - as Senators Compagnone and Morgoni recalled - is a highly urbanized region, with per capita production of waste higher than the national average and which, due to its geographical position and morphological conformation, records the presence of large ports and large industrial poles (for refining oil, for shipbuilding, for energy production), as well as important tourist-commercial activities. For this reason, any waste cycle management and planning policy must be adapted and commensurate with these characteristics. The adoption by Parliament of a resolution on this report may be the starting point for the central government, the region and the territorial authorities concerned to converge on the actions to be taken, in order to make the measures provided for in the Regional Waste Management Plan effective as soon as possible. Only in this way will it be possible to take Liguria out of the state of constant emergency that has marked it in recent years and that is the ground on which illegality and criminal infiltration are rooted. As foreseen by the Regional Plan, Liguria could become the pilot region where to experiment with stronger measures for a real development of the circular economy, an economy no longer based on the consumption of raw materials, but on the recycling of consumer waste in order to reduce the production of waste, making them a resource. I think it is important to increase recycling to 50% in 2016 and 65% in 2020, and I believe it is equally important to strengthen the specialist companies AMIU and ACAM, which must live up to the task they have been given. I also believe that interregional agreements, rather than interrupting after the closure of the emergency phase, can be renewed in other ways. Interregional planning could be experimented; there are important realities, in nearby Turin and Parma, where we can bring together the little material that we will not be able to recycle, without the need to create further plants. You see, I didn't spare anything from my region, which is a beautiful region. I have spared nothing on the substance of the issues and I have seen the need to see, together with my colleagues in the Commission, what were the critical points. I didn't talk about casinos, boats, annexation, fairs and markets, sticking to the merit. But the considerations that Senator Maurizio Rossi made about the Liguria Region do not agree with me at all; on the contrary, I believe that they hurt Liguria, said in this way and in this House. In our region, in our Liguria, which is beautiful and fragile, where there are also many problems, millions of people arrive a year. There are the National Park of the Cinque Terre, the Park of Portofino and there is a mountain and coastal system very important; there are historical and architectural emergencies and good administrations, cities that are well managed, Senator Rossi. So I would avoid making useless propaganda in this assembly and I would stick to the merits of the issues. And, on this subject, I believe that the resolutions that we are going to adopt will help Liguria and Ligurians. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u53	The joint debate is closed. I have received from the Presidency the following motions for resolutions: No 1, tabled by Senators Puppatoto, Pagnocelli, Nugnes, Di Biagio, Marinello, De Petris, Orellana, Compagnone, Augello, Pepe and Arrigoni, on document XXIII, No 7; No 2, tabled by Senators Puppato, Pagnocelli, Nugnes, Di Biagio, Marinello, Rossi Maurizio, Orellana, Compagnone, Augello, Pepe and Arrigoni, on document XXIII, No 8; No 3, presented by Senators Puppatoto, Pagnocelli, Nugnes, Di Biagio, Marinello, De Petris, Orellana, Compagnone, Augello, Pepe and Arrigoni, on document XXIII, No 9; No 4, tabled by Senators Puppato, Pagnocelli, Nugnes, Di Biagio, Marinello, De Petris, Orella, Compagnona, Compagnone, Compagno, Augne, Auggone, Auggoni, Puggoni, No 11, and Puggoni, on document II. The motions for resolutions have been distributed. Mr Degani, Secretary of State for the Environment and for the Protection of the Land and the Degani Sea, has the floor. I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the motion for a resolution No 1 on document No 7, I would like the following information to be included at the end of the debate: On 18 February 2016, the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea and the Ministry of Economic Development sent a national programme scheme to the European Policy Department for the subsequent submission to the European Commission. In addition, the preparatory procedures for the public consultation for strategic environmental assessment were launched on 18 March. The Government's opinion is in favour of motion for a resolution No 1, on document XXIII, No 7, on motion for a resolution No 2, on document XXIII, No 8, on motion for a resolution No 3, on document XXIII, No 9 and on motion for a resolution No 4, on document XIII, No 11.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u55	I would ask Senator Puppato to comment on the proposed integration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u56	Mr President, the Government has made a request to supplement document XXIII, No 7, which refers to nuclear waste, with a further clarification that goes in addition to those already included in the list indicating what has happened over the years, especially in relation to the Risk Charter, since 2014. I consider it useful and, above all, very important that today we come to know that the situation is not as firm and immobile as we had imagined, but that starting from February 18 - and therefore recently - the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea is concerned to send this scheme of national program to the Department for European policies and that, consequently, on March 18, it has started preparatory procedures to the public consultation for the strategic environmental assessment. All this puts us in a position to be able to live this process with less anxiety, considering that the Ministry has resumed the situation by the hand and intends to proceed. For the sake of formal correctness, I therefore agree to include these two clarifications in the list, at the end of the premises, as an element of knowledge for this Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u57	Since this integration has been accepted, the opinions are in favour of all four motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u60	ZIZA (CoR). Mr President, the reports we are debating give us an unhappily general picture of our territory. The environmental theme, in fact, is still an open issue in our country: it concerns every Region of our territory and touches each of us, but it sees us, as representatives of the people, committed in the first person to assume responsibility to start to reverse the course, making choices that will be fundamental in the environmental matter and in the disposal of waste. The reports under discussion by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences show how much still needs to be done to achieve that decisive breakthrough. The attention must remain very high and our commitment must be absolute on one of the central aspects, the one related to waste disposal. This is a meticulous work that must be done in synergy with Europe, so that we no longer talk about waste, but about resources to be used: I am referring to the so-called circular economy, the only possible prospect to combat climate change and global warming. Italy is still under EU infringement procedures for non-compliance with EU legislation on waste management and landfills. The sanctions coming from the European Union show that the government, even on this sensitive issue, has not acted satisfactorily. Citizens will always pay for the lack of landfill subsidies (some 185 illegal ones) and the fine to be paid to the European Union is around €80 million. Ladies and gentlemen, we have wasted so many possibilities and there are still too many open issues. The illegal activity on waste management that has been registered in Liguria, but also in other areas of the country is a very heavy fact for our territory. The problem related to Porto Marghera, a production site that is part of the Quadrilatero della chimica, a strategic sector for Italy and on which the future of industry depends, is the result of the shortcomings and slowness of the state bureaucratic machine. The process of reclamation, started since 1998, has never seen the light and has not yet led to satisfactory results. We must understand how the progress of chemistry and technological research in Italy is closely related to the implementation of the Bonifices. That's where we have to start or start. Good intentions are no longer enough. A sound environmental policy should provide for appropriate environmental taxation to encourage companies in the sector to support business strategies towards a sustainable economy and to limit polluting production systems with a high environmental impact. Again, Italy is always a step backwards. Another crucial issue is the separate collection of municipal waste. We are still far from achieving that development of the collection treatments that Europe imposes on us and that our planet asks of us, begs us. In many regions, moreover, despite having very high taxes on waste, citizens do not receive an adequate service and pay the bill of a bad-management of waste disposal and collection. The images of many cities of the Bel Paese submerged by waste can still bring Italy to bad international figures. Poor management of waste collection practices and waste disposal can cause a real risk to human health and the protection of citizens. The government, despite good intentions, is still very far from implementing a plan to reclamation the territories at risk. We should speed up a number of bureaucratic procedures. In conclusion, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their work. We hope that the resolutions will contribute to the solution of all the problems we are discussing. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u63	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the protection against the harmful effects of ionizing radiation has been exercised over time by a plurality of structures, but for several years now by ISPRA. The initiatives that in 2009 through the establishment of the Nuclear Safety Agency (ASN) should have interrupted in Italy the parable of decadence of the national radiation protection services, in complete oblivion after the referendum following the Chernobyl accident in 1986, have fallen after the Fukushima accident in March 2011. In the meantime, ISPRA has continued to exercise its powers in this area in an increasingly precarious situation. Under the Euratom Directive of 2011 the National Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection Inspectorate (ISIN) was established, i.e. the regulatory authority responsible for nuclear safety and radiation protection, which, with complete independence and authority, should have succeeded ISPRA in this area. Too bad that the path of constitution of the ISIN, begun in October 2014 with the designation by the Government of the Director General, registers a phase of stall. In fact, despite the fact that in November 2014, the parliamentary committees gave a majority favourable opinion on the appointment, this was not ratified by the Council of Ministers, which had proposed it, and by the President of the Republic. Whatever the official reasons for freezing the procedure has not been stated. All we know is press rumors that have not been confirmed or denied by numerous parliamentary questions, to which the Government never answers. In fact, the Executive, more than a year and a half after the appointment, seems paralyzed. This is very serious, given that the role of protection that ISIN should guarantee to the State and to the citizens and the urgency for its operation are secondary to the importance of the assignment of the specific appointment. I would like to address the Government representative to say that it is illusory that ISPRA's extension of this function is sufficient to guarantee citizens' rights in the field of nuclear safety in an acceptable way. Let us not forget the risk of terrorist attacks! I want to remind you that the World Summit on Nuclear Safety is being held today and tomorrow in Washington. The issue of interest, which will be addressed in particular, concerns the need to combat the emergence of potential nuclear terrorism (against nuclear installations and waste storage sites), also in the light of recent events in Brussels which have given rise to serious risks. Today the functions of the stalled ISIN are carried out, inertially, by an ISPRA that is increasingly in crisis, in a parable of the exhaustion of national resources in the field of radiation protection, as, moreover, candidly supported the same director of ISPRA in the hearing of 30 July 2015 at the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry, stating that it cannot be emphasized to the Commission that the technical staff of the nuclear department of the Institute today piles to approximately 35 officials, 40% of which will leave the job for reached limits of age within the next five-seven years. The gap between the important commitments which ISPRA should make, albeit in extension, and the resources present and the prospects for further thinning and dissipation of residual competences is worrying. An impact of the serious situation could already be present in ISPRA's activities. For example, its technical guide No 29, which contains the criteria for the location of the national radioactive waste depot, forgets that it should also have dealt with the management of high-activity waste. This is a critical issue which is added to that of the criteria I have taken up, which I denounced in my general speech. In order to emerge from an apparently abstract statement of criticality and to illustrate concretely only some of the situations on the carpet seriously compromised by the continuing state of institutional precariousness of the sector, we recall the following: the need to follow the procedures of localization of the National Deposit of radioactive waste; the surveillance and the system of authorization on the dismantling of Italian nuclear power plants, which continues to accumulate a very heavy delay; the presence on national territory of industrial and medical radioactive sources in use in Italy and the transport of radioactive materials, including deposits of radioactive waste abandoned or waiting for decision on their fate (including also the numerous micro deposits that have formed as a result of accidents at companies of the cycle of the recovery of metals); the presence a few kilometers from the national borders of nuclear power plants in operation, able to generate devastating radiological effects even hundreds of kilometers of distance and effects detectable up to thousands of kilometers, as demonstrated by the accidents of Chernobyl and Fukushima. For example, the Slovenian power station of Krško, old and placed in an area with high seismicity, is the most striking example, being, among other things, the foreign power station closest to a large Italian city (137 kilometers from Trieste). As stated above, with regard to the precarious national nuclear safety capabilities of our country, also against possible terrorist threats and natural disasters, we believe that the Government must exit from the immobilism and explain what are the reasons that prevent the effective constitution and operation of the ISIN and when this will happen; what are the programs to bring back the staff destined for the radiation protection activities in charge to the State, clearly undersized and undermined by the lack of generational renewal, to a minimum level of acceptability, regardless of the structures (today ISPRA and tomorrow the ISIN) responsible for exercising these competences; the reasons for the stall of the questionable procedure for the location of the national radioactive waste storage. We need transparency, an essential condition for the credibility of the actors and for the serene - I repeat, serene - acceptance of choices by Italian citizens. In addition, the Commission must take note of the Sogin problem and resolve it, since the continuing crisis of its corporate leaders impacts on the deep delay in dismantling Italian nuclear power stations and therefore on the Italians' bill. Renzi, therefore, does not limit himself today and tomorrow to taking the catwalk to the world summit on nuclear safety; do not continue to act as an ostrich that puts its head under the sand; guarantee the nuclear safety of our country by removing the too many and persistent problems denounced in the report. The Northern League Group will vote in favour of all four resolutions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u66	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already explained in the general debate, the documents before us, beyond any political exploitation, are worthy of attention and sincere appreciation for their accuracy and concreteness. I say this because I have listened to so many contributions in the course of previous interventions, each with an overall view, although I am aware of the worrying environmental situation associated with the waste cycle and the environmental offences related to them. While in general discussion I have focused my attention on the sites of Porto Marghera and the Quadrilatero of the chemistry of the North, now I would like to deepen the situation of Liguria and that of the disposal of radioactive waste. More in detail, from an analysis of the waste management document in the Liguria Region, the lack of an overall strategy on waste management emerges predominantly, which affects a number of further critical issues. The management is delegated almost entirely to the individual municipalities, when instead it would be preferable a system linked to larger territories, especially in a region like Liguria, which has particular morphological characteristics and a high urbanization. The management entrusted to the municipalities can involve risks of corruptive phenomena and mafia infiltrations. It should not be underestimated that Liguria is one of the regions with the highest per capita cost for waste management, collection and disposal, so as to suggest that the Court of Auditors' audit section might intervene. Remaining in topic of illegality, the Ligurian ports are characterized by the increasing phenomenon of the cross-border traffic of the waste, to work of foreign subjects often supported from Italian intermediaries that, evading the national norm on the transfer abroad of the waste, divert to Asian countries or Africans especially plastics, electronic equipment and the batteries for cars, counting on more permissive laws in the Countries of destination, where they are not previewed adequate environmental protections. This improper chain of waste management has repercussions on the national economic circuit, as large quantities of materials that could be used for recycling are lost in a vision of circular economy. The presence of the 'ndrangheta', which has managed to infiltrate the social and economic fabric of Liguria, entering the contracts and subcontracting of services, such as those destined for the disposal of waste, as shown by some investigations carried out in recent years by the judiciary, is also alarmed. Reasoning in numerical terms, 651 illegal activities related to the waste cycle were reported to the Legione Carabinieri della Liguria between 2010 and 2014. And again, according to Legambiente, Liguria is the first Region of Northern Italy for illegality within the waste cycle, with 6 percent of the infringements committed. Our Commission's report shows that illegal waste trafficking could be more effectively countered by greater interaction (and integration of information systems) between the traditional police forces, the bodies of the Customs Agency and the Harbour Office. Another very serious problem related to the management of waste in Liguria comes from the plant choices: in fact, the report shows that over time it has only been hypothesized the realization of technologically advanced extraordinary structures, which would have had to solve the problem of waste disposal, but which in fact have never seen the light, leaving the territory exposed to more levels of illice. Therefore, this issue must be addressed urgently, as the production of waste in Liguria is already very high in itself, about 14% more than the national average, also due to the presence of tourists especially in coastal municipalities. Waste management suffers from an overall backwardness of the system. In the territory there are no incineration and heat-to-energy plants, so municipal waste is mainly disposed of in landfills, many of which have reached exhaustion and are no longer able to guarantee management autonomy within the Ligurian territory. Furthermore, landfills for hazardous waste are completely absent. Many audit bodies in the Commission have more explicitly spoken of "collasso" announced in waste cycle management. Liguria, in fact, in recent years has failed to create a waste management strategy that would make it autonomous and allow it to have a long-term planning: over the years, according to interregional agreements, waste has been systematically delivered outside the region. But this system needs to be quickly modified. Other nodes to be dissolved are those of urban waste water treatment plants (which in many cases are not adequate) and those of polluted industrial sites (many of which are still waiting for reclamation). In order to overcome the many problems identified so far, I agree with what is stated in the report, where it is hoped that the new waste management plan will be effective, but there are some shortcomings. Finally, it is a priority to take action on prevention, as the sanctioning response of the judicial authority affects sometimes irreparable phenomena of pollution and environmental damage. On the other hand, the issue raised in the document on the disposal of radioactive waste and related activities in Italy is more complex. Specifically, the topics dealt with are the decommissioning of industrial plants, the national storage of radioactive waste, the national programme for the management of irradiated fuel and radioactive waste, provided for by Directive 2011/60/Euratom and the case of the Cemerad warehouse in Statte in the province of Taranto. It should be specified that in Italy the dismantling of nuclear waste and the management of existing radioactive waste is entrusted to Sogin, a public limited company. As highlighted in the report's pages, unfortunately, the decommissioning operations to date have proceeded very slowly, which has led to an increase in expenditure forecasts over the years. A very important point that has not yet been dissolved is the one relating to the site where radioactive waste already existing within the individual plants and those generated by their dismantling, in which the materials will have to be stored under maximum safety conditions. It should be recalled that Italy, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned Directive, should have prepared by 23 August 2015 a national programme for the management of irradiated nuclear fuel and radioactive waste. Although Legislative Decree No. 45 of 2014 provided for the implementation of the aforementioned Directive, the situation is still unresolved to date. This situation would not only lead to an infringement procedure, but would once again send a definitive solution to the sensitive issue. Finally, the report deals with the situation of radioactive waste storage at the former Cemerad in Statte a few kilometres from Taranto. The Commission has found that the dilapidated warehouse, which is clearly exposed to any kind of event, has required urgent action by the State, which has allocated up to EUR 10 million for the safety and management of the waste present. Despite being an additional expenditure on public finances, government aid to a municipal administration which was objectively unable to bear such heavy costs for such a delicate task as the disposal of radioactive waste of hospital and industrial origin is welcome. In conclusion, it can be seen that investigations, inspections, data collection and final reports demonstrate the fragility of the territory and the unpredictable consequences if we were not timely to implement concrete solutions. The safety and eventual reclamation of the sites in question, therefore, represent not only a duty to the territories that have already endured all too much but, at the same time, a challenge from an environmental and social point of view. For this reason, the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE vote in favour is a vote of responsibility and is justified both in substance and method. Finally, let me stress that these resolutions are mainly the result of the attention and precision with which the entire Commission of inquiry has worked: reading carefully the reports of the individual documents has shown a precision in the deepenings, without neglecting the criticalities and operational suggestions that will have to be followed. A demonstration of professionalism, maturity and commitment to citizens. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u69	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, in my explanation of vote I will focus on the report on the management of radioactive waste in Italy and related activities. The Commission's work on the waste cycle - which I thank for - has been absolutely valuable and has highlighted, alas, the many problems not only of the process of building the national nuclear waste depot - on which I will then focus - but, in general, of all the management of radioactive waste. So that means that we are really in a very heavy and critical situation with regard to nuclear safety and safety in the management of radioactive waste in our country. Unfortunately, the whole history of recent years is marked not only by unimplemented programmes, but also - and this is the most worrying aspect - by the lack of certain times and transparency in all processes. The report rightly points to a delay on the whole issue of decommissioning nuclear installations. Indeed, we would be kind enough to define it as a delay. We know perfectly well that it has been entrusted to the Society's management of nuclear installations (Sogin) since 1999, but in these years all operations have been carried out in a completely fragmented way. The extension of all programmes reflected an increase in expenditure forecasts, from €4.35 billion, estimated in 2006, to €6.7 billion estimated in 2011. I would like to remind you that these costs, among other things, are borne by the final customer of the electricity system, i.e. by the citizens, through the tariff component "A2." The delays and progressive shifts in these programmes have reached their climax with the appointment of the new Sogin bodies, which, by cutting off the activities foreseen in the previous four-year plan, has further led to a shift in the dismantling deadline, which ranges from a minimum of two years to a maximum of nine years. I would therefore like to draw the attention of all my colleagues to the issue of the dismantling of the old nuclear power stations, because today more than yesterday there is a safety problem, not only in environmental terms. Mr Alfano has often come to this House - hopefully he will do so next week - to report on the increase in security in relation to the terrorist threat, but from this point of view, because of the presence of the old nuclear power stations, we are not in a situation of tranquillity. I believe that special attention should be paid to this issue, in connection with the Government's subsequent communications on terrorism. As I said, Sogin's four-year programme presents a worsening picture of previous programmes. I would also like to stress the responsibilities that have been involved. After the bad figure made by the Government with the appointment of Agostini to the National Inspectorate for Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection (ISIN), the body that should have the role of inspector for nuclear safety, we have a situation of extension as regards the competences of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA), with also serious situations from the point of view of staff and funding, which have been well highlighted in the report and also in some interventions of colleagues who preceded me. All this is leading to a very serious situation, which has highlighted - this is also very clear in the report and in the resolution - the serious delays we have accumulated. Now the government reported that they were sent to the Department on February 18th. But I would like to point out that the Euratom Directive of 2011 specifically provided for us to send the national programme to the European Commission by 23 August 2015. It is now recovering, but it is clear that on this point too we run the risk of not only running into the infringement procedure but also the serious problem of the delay of the programme. The last question, which concerns us very much, on which we also spoke in the Chamber during a question time and on which we had asked various questions, concerns the proposal for a Charter of potentially suitable areas. On this issue, which affects many citizens, as we also know from the history of the hypothesis of location of the site in Basilicata in the past years, we have a very worrying situation. From this point of view, in fact, we have somehow lost track of the Charter itself. On 20 July, ISPRA sent the Ministries its assessments of the final update of the Sogin Charter, but since then there has been virtually no more news. I also refer to questions time and questions because even then (and I quote a recent question and a question time from the House), we have no longer received any precise words about the publication of the Charter. This means that the start of the national seminar and, therefore, the information and participation of the local and regional authorities of the citizens expands over time. We share all the concerns and call for a strong commitment from the Government from this point of view. I would like to point out that access to information and participation are the two central elements of environmental decision-making, as recognised by the Aarhus Convention on the right of access to information. For the history of our country, for what happened on the wrong choices of a few years ago, the process of involvement of regions and territorial authorities, transparency, access to information and participation of citizens is all the more fundamental; instead, the Charter is still secreted. This, for us, is a great element of concern, not only for the citizens but for all institutional levels. Therefore, at this point, serious commitments by the Government are needed for matters relating to the timing of the publication of the Charter and the start of the process of transparency and participation. We need serious commitments on ISPRA because, in extension, it has the function, with reference to ISIN, of nuclear safety. After the bad figures made precisely in relation to the appointment of Agostini, we need guarantees for choices that are based on competence and authority regarding the future of ISIN. From this point of view, there are references in the premises, in the commitment and in the resolution. We therefore vote in favour, as we have seen in the Commission's own appreciation of its work. We also vote in favour of the other motions for resolutions. I would just like to stress, as far as the quadrilateral of chemistry is concerned, that the demand - which we have been making for years - for definitive exclusion from the balances entered, in order to respect the constraints of public finances, for the resources allocated by the local authorities for the activities of reclamation of polluted soils is fundamental to us. Evidence, among other things, the elements of concern arising from the lack of communication between the Ministry and ARPA, which emerge from the report. We hope that in this respect we will proceed in a positive way. Here too, we have a problem with the resources for strengthening epidemiological campaigns, such as the 'Sentieri' report. On Porto Marghera the report has evidenced what have been the elements (not only critical, but also more) happened in all these years with reference to the responsibilities of many subjects, starting from the consortium Venezia Nuova and the contracts entrusted without contest always to the same subjects. The report clearly shows the absurdity - which we denounced - of the objective law and the general contractor system, which allowed the consortium to deal with practically all the work, with the results that we see. Also on the motions for resolutions concerning Porto Marghera and Liguria, on which Senator Rossi spoke, appreciating the work of the Commission, we express a favourable vote. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL Group and the Senators Compagnone and Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u72	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the debate that is taking place today, because it is not always assumed that reports on such important issues by the Committees of Inquiry will be discussed in such a serious and thorough manner by this House. In this particular case, today's debate allows for a broad debate and greater transparency compared to serious and complex situations in themselves, which insist, moreover, on the whole of the national territory. The aim of this House is certainly to try to put even more of the spotlight on these issues, so that they do not fall into oblivion and bureaucratic delays. We therefore hope that the motions for resolutions will be adopted unanimously, because it is clear that environmental protection must not, and cannot, know political divisions, but only the common will to overcome the problems identified. In summary, I will only talk about a few aspects, because I clearly fully agree with the intervention that my colleague, Senator Di Biagio, has just made in general discussion. On Porto Marghera we have seen, for example, how 5-6 percent of the missing works, compared to 95 percent of the works carried out, have a high cost (250 million euros) and involves, however, the more complex areas, where the substations pass. We are, therefore, in a situation where, if we do not intervene punctually, precisely and above all quickly, we run the risk that even the work done gets sick and that those margins made no longer hold and, in fact, do not serve anything. As a result, there is a risk that the poor functioning of the existing structures will contribute not to reducing but even to increasing the present level of pollution. The current situation is, therefore, of extreme delicacy and calls everyone to a sense of responsibility, beyond the faults of those who have not adequately carried out one work or another. The risk, precisely, is that pollution will continue and that a dispute can be reopened between the State and the companies that have paid, through transactions, the consideration for the emergency of the subsidies and this risk - I stress - is very strong and well founded. Moreover, any work of reindustrialization was ever carried out in that area (and there are so many interests manifested, because that is a strategic area, not only for the allocation, but also for its natural infrastructure and for the natural port point between land and sea), it cannot fail to consider the reclamation and the putting in safety as necessary premise. Therefore, reclamation and safety are the premise of relaunching a productive activity and must be considered absolutely at the same time. As for the reclamation of chemical poles, the so-called North quadrilateral, which includes, in addition to Porto Marghera, the sites of Mantova, Ravenna and Ferrara, we must remember that this represents the site of election of the Italian chemistry of the twentieth century: the chemical that has given extraordinary results in our country. The greatest criticality found in the various sites of national interest is the presence of numerous administrative procedures. Sometimes companies use this complexity as an impossibility to proceed to clean up or secure; sometimes the public dumps responsibility by saying that it does not have the means to carry out proper checks and interventions. Therefore, these are regulations that certainly still need to be improved, even if in the environmental connection, with the approval of a new scheme of transactions aimed at environmental restoration, we have tried to pursue the logic of simplifications. Equally important was the introduction into the penal code of the crime of omission reclamation, which will certainly be an important lever in the hands of the judiciary in order to enforce the procedures in place of safety and reclamation. Last but not least, the Senate's final approval of the law on the reordering of environmental agencies could also facilitate this process of simplification. Beyond the peculiarities of the individual sites, which must be considered absolutely, it turns out in fact that the Bonifiche are fundamental if one thinks that in these sites, today all active, the chemistry of our country can still have a future, and not only the traditional chemistry. Versalis has an important research center: a centre of excellence is in Ravenna and in Ferrara there is the most important study center for the production of polyolefins in Europe; in Mantua there is another important piece of Versalis research and there are also sites that are looking with some interest at possible investments in so-called green chemistry. Let's remember that many innovative patents, linked to the so-called bio-based, that is to say to the so-called green chemistry, are actually the result of Italian research. We all hope that our debate will also serve as a stimulus to engage in such a discussion in order to ensure that the government chooses, in the right and appropriate way, the way to relaunch this very important branch of the national economy. For the continuation of the activities of reclamation is therefore required not only the allocation of economic resources but also an active role of the public part, and I am referring in the first place to the Ministry of the Environment, which must obviously reappropriate its own competences, its own specificities and its role in pursuing not a purely procedural logic but a logic of result, demonstrating the ability to combine, in interlocation with the territorial authorities and private subjects, high technical and legal skills and above all a shared strategic vision capacity. On the issue of the waste cycle in Liguria I can refer to the speeches made by my colleagues, once again by my colleague Mr Di Biagio, but I also endorse a large part of Mr Caleo's speech. The criticalities found are basically two: the plant choices not made in the times and in the appropriate ways and above all the fragmentation of the management. All this, considering also the orographic difficulties and the difficulties of the transports in Liguria, causes that in itself represents a national emergency, perhaps unknown. We often talk about Southern Italy, we often talk about Naples, Campania and Sicily, but that of Liguria is definitely a topic on which we must work with greater incisiveness. Not to mention, then, the great harbour areas that insist in that Region, which in itself constitute a point of cross-border sorting of waste not always lawful, indeed very often even illegal, even when the direction of illicit traffic is found in other parts of the national territory: direction that evidently chooses as ports of election probably the ports of Liguria. We must also mention the issue of the demolition of Costa Concordia: a demolition activity that, in consideration of its high complexity, as well as of the possible, potential environmental impacts, has been subjected in advance to the integrated environmental Autorization and made object of monitoring and control by the personnel of the Harbour office of Genoa. The Concordia case is a striking case, but it must not be considered a unique case. Every year twenty large ships are abandoned in the Italian ports, also because they are registered in the naval registers of complacent countries, with the impossibility to go back to the ownership of those boats. To these are added 150 more wrecks of various tonnages and even 30,000-31,000 boats from abandoned pleasure; altogether, it is 42,000 tons of fiberglass. It is an important phenomenon, for which it is now necessary to provide for a specific procedure for the dismantling of wrecks, safeguarding the environment and the safety of navigation. Finally, Mr President, the most important aspects of the management of radioactive waste in Italy must be highlighted. The fundamental criticality lies in the continuing lack of a national warehouse where the waste is placed, today distributed in numerous sites scattered on the national territory, in the majority even in the areas where the same waste was produced. Certainly it is not useful for the feasibility of the work to prolong the waiting times for the publication of the proposal of the Charter of areas potentially suitable for the location of the National Deposit, especially for the negative effect that the subsequent, repeated referrals can produce on the image of transparency of the procedure, indispensable condition, together with the credibility of the actors, so that the work can be carried out in a climate of sufficient acceptance by the local administrations. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are all extremely important issues. That is why with today's vote (I repeat the hope that it will be a unanimous vote) the Senate makes a considerable contribution to the debate on these issues, with the hope that the Government will be a diligent part of promoting stronger and more determined environmental policies. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u73	We greet teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education (Assteas) in Buccino, in the province of Salerno, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u76	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, we are discussing four very different reports which, on the whole, all give a very depressing picture of the management and security of our territories. The Italy that comes out of it is an approximate Italy and too often dishonest: it does not invest in the redevelopment of its territories, to the detriment of the environment and health, yes, but also of the conversion of the territories themselves and therefore of the new economy. It is a country that does not comply with expenditure commitments and deadlines and that does not appear reliable or efficient. The first report relates to the long-standing issue of radioactive waste management, which we have already dealt with in the 13th Commission, together with the 10th Commission. In the previous parliamentary term, the bicameral Commission called it a distressing situation and not much has changed. The main problems that are read in the report are the lack of national storage, which clearly, in a chain, brings out many other problems and does not allow a stable safety of radioactive waste, which are still in the places where they have been produced without being put in safety according to current standards. Among other things - and this is no small thing - these could become strategic objectives for terrorist attacks, which are certainly catastrophic. The report makes the prospect of decommissioning operations uncertain and therefore to release the current nuclear sites free of all radiological constraints, so that they are converted to a new future. It leaves unresolved the issue of waste produced in industry, research and health, which is now being collected in a very precarious way in temporary storage. It also does not provide a destination for radioactive waste produced by the irradiated fuel treatment operations, which are carried out in France and Great Britain. In France they have slowed down the acquisition of these products, precisely because there is no storage and therefore there is no safety that these wastes can be received by us by 2025, as provided for by the agreement we have signed. Another critical issue concerns the slowness in the decommissioning activities, which should have been carried out already in 2010: well, the report states that in 2012 we are still at an early stage. The causes are certainly multiple, but almost all internal to the Sogin itself, which instead tries to diminish its responsibilities. Another important issue is the control functions, which since 1994 were in the hands of ISPRA, which had the right skills, but since 2009 it was expected to move them to another body, but this shift has never taken place. The inevitable precarious situation for the transitional period has reduced the resources invested for the purpose and also the levels of guard, which are now really at a very low historical level. In addition to those of 2012, other delays were recorded in 2013 in the change of management and a delay of two to nine years was foreseen for dismantling. Again, in August 2014, Sogin realized that the designs are in a very backward state, so there will be other delays and therefore cuts, but delays and cuts mean increased spending, which is already several billions. All these expenses, however, are borne by the electric user through the classic, old electric bill through the tariff component A2 and without a pre-defined ceiling, so this figure can increase without any limit. To worsen the situation and the negative and uncomfortable perception of this situation is the fact that President Zollino and the managing director Casale, heard distinctly at the hearing, have given divergent assessments of the timing and the possibility to recover such delays. Similarly, the rumors voiced last year about a possible Sogin police station are not reassuring, just out of a judicial affair that had affected the previous management on the subject of procurement. These internal corporate differences had prompted the Ministry to even speculate about a commissionership. However, there are still delays on the National Charter of the areas potentially suitable for hosting the Deposit, which was announced in magna pump, also through a suggestive advertising campaign, in September 2015, but which continues to be absolutely reserved. We are very concerned that this is not a premise to a solution imposed and not shared, as had been announced; a solution that therefore we will never be able to accept at all. There are also delays with regard to the national programme for the management of irradiated nuclear fuel, which was finally presented to Europe on 18 February, as provided for in the directive but with several months of delay, as it was expected for 23 August. Of course, everything that has been said cannot but give rise to concern about the very delicate tasks of the Sogin and the control body, that is, the ISIN, which has not yet been set up because of Agostini's embarrassing and chatted appointment. I wonder how from Italians we can feel safe and calmed by such a management, without getting into the details of some specific issues on sites that are really alarming. However, the conclusions of the reports on the so-called quadrilateral of chemistry and specifically on Porto Marghera are no longer reassuring. The issue of reclamations is embarrassing, because it concerns more than half a century of unpunished and deep pollution of the sites, which are still unused and abandoned at this time and in which pollution is active and devastates the surface and deep aquifers, as well as air quality, because pollution is an active action, we must remember that. Of course all this comes from an industrial season in which there was no environmental rule, no legislation: it was expected that almost anything could be done. However, the rules, which arrived late in comparison with the rest of Europe (with 22 years of delay only with regard to the so-called Ronchi decree), did not solve the problems once approved, because the study carried out in the bicameral Commission shows that it is still not possible to identify those responsible and, above all, to be right about the funds, the compensations, including the guarantees, which are also provided for by law, aimed at redeeming the environment, health, and converting the territories, as we said before. We must begin to face this capital sin and curb the mentality that sees in the ambitalization the primary and absolute good, always subject to the concept of profit and entrepreneurship, which instead is constitutionally limited to the social function and to the general interest. But this unfortunately happens and continuously in this parliamentary term. Already with the decree Clini they have downgraded 19 SIN out of 58. Then it was wanted to believe that the Bonifiche did not happen because of the complexity of the controls and cut itself on them. In the Competitiveness Decree, for example, in June 2014 the self-certification of the pollution status of the subject concerned and the silent assent on the characterisation plans of private individuals, without contradictory of the control body, was introduced. All this happens in the country of false Bonifiche, which is all to say. We also talked about Marghera and how this is not an upbuilding model. A few brush strokes are enough to define it. The lagoon and the waters around the petrochemical are devastated by poisons. The first programme agreement was eighteen years ago, but the Venice lagoon continues to be polluted by these poisons. It suffices to know that to expand the petrochemical the processing waste of the first industrial zone was used for the advancement of the coast and today, in 2016, we find an unfinished reclamation and of the contents not realized to rule of art. Maybe 781 million will be lost, of which 500 are transactions with private individuals that we can no longer ask for anything and that will have been worthless money. Incredibly, these interventions were given to the Consorzio Venezia Nuova, which was not controlled by the provider and so let this money be wasted. There is still the issue of partial testing, which is of no use and for which EUR 2 million has been paid. It is important to see how they were assigned to aldermen and top management of the Veneto Region, to former cabinet heads of the Minister of the Environment, to general directors of the Ministry of the Environment, to apical figures of the magistrate of the waters of Venice, who is involved with the MOSE: we can only think that they were prebende. Liguria also falls within the framework of a basically swindled Italy, where pockets of inefficiency are perhaps created for the specific purpose of allowing illicit. There is a lack of overall strategy for the management of municipal and hazardous waste. Still 60% go to landfill and we are still talking about adaptations to European Directive No 31 of 1999. There are the most expensive costs in Italy for archaic management in order to allow non-transparent interests to be settled, but, as the prosecutors have said, this lack of environmental culture can no longer compensate for judicial activity. The government's gonna take care of this. We shall vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u79	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). The presence of a Commission of inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences has been a constant of parliamentary work since the 12th legislature, i.e. for more than twenty years. Since then, this Commission has been supporting historic bicameral committees such as the so-called anti-mafia Commission. The Mafia still exists and it is still being investigated. The Commission of Inquiry into Waste is also obliged to investigate and prepare territorial and thematic studies, analyses and insights into the many forms of illicit waste disposal. The anomalies of behaviour and the systematic violation of the law and the practices allowed are the basis of the need to give life to every legislature to this bicameral body, with the awareness that the problems related to the waste cycle seem increasingly linked to the problems dealt with also in the other bicameral Commission, to which I have referred. The waste problem is more and more intertwined with organised crime every day, which sees disposal management as a rich opportunity to make profits. Many companies that deal with waste disposal have been linked to crime, historically linked to the companies that deal with the work of earth movement and quarries made with trucks, mechanical shovels and ruspes, with hundreds of complaints recorded in recent years. There has been, therefore, an almost automatic link with the new type of activity linked to waste disposal and many cases of contracts rigged or piloted ended in the scope of the judiciary, many convictions and many criminal proceedings in progress. The Committee of Inquiry into the Waste Cycle also dealt with this, providing a recent and clear picture of the phenomenon. We gladly recognize that enormous and valuable has been the commitment to auditions, inspections and acquisitions of material, very useful to deepen the issues covered. Now it is necessary to take advantage of all the activity carried out, giving concreteness and operation to the work accomplished. Compared to the extensive investigation carried out, it is possible, in the brevity of an explanation of vote, to mention only at some point. The four documents on our examination give us some different themes. There are in fact the document that concerns the management of radioactive waste and two documents that deal with the reclamations of industrial sites, including chemical poles, starting from a document approved by the Commission last December, which concerns Venice and Porto Marghera, to get to understand the so-called quadrilateral of the North, which includes Mantova, Ferrara and Ravenna in the document approved just a month ago. Then there is a monographic document, moreover very full-bodied, concerning the territorial situation of Liguria. At the basis of the extensive work of the bicameral body there are a long series of hearings, in which more than 160 people were heard and 19 missions were carried out on the territory, of which there was also evidence. This is a lively work in the territory and in Parliament, which certainly testifies to the desire to improve the existing. Let's start from the fact that we stressed in the premise, that is the particular focus that the Commission of investigation on the cycle of the refusals has realized on the criminal phenomenon, through the hearing in the first place of the Minister of Justice and, then, of the National Prosecutor anti-mafia, of the President of the National Authority anti-corruption and of dozens of representatives of the judiciary and the Forces of the order at the highest levels of territorial responsibility. In our opinion, while positively assessing the important reports delivered to today's debate of the Assembly of the Senate, it would be necessary to draw from them detailed operational conclusions that can be valid at national level and that become the basis for the planning of a structured sector intervention, starting from the report on the management of radioactive waste in Italy, which - it should be remembered - are not only the radioactive materials used in nuclear installations now abandoned, but also a part of hospital waste, industry and research laboratories. The report photographs the state of affairs for the management of the National Deposit, a problem that has been dragging for years without solution. Let us not forget that a component of the electricity bill tariff (to be precise, the A2 component oriented to nuclear decommissioning) guarantees this activity considerable financial availability, amounting to about 1.5 billion euros per year. Our country is absolutely lagging behind the actions necessary to give security and certainty to the management of radioactive waste, also in relation - the Commission emphasizes - to the negative organizational situation that affects Sogin and ISPRA, the latter waiting to transfer functions and related personnel to SSP, overcoming the recent bad figure of the Government, in order to guarantee the effective fulfillment of the request in function of control. Probably the solution could be to link the creation of the National Deposit of Radioactive Waste to an important research centre in this area. If that is the purpose of the hypothetical technology park, let us welcome this proposal. This solution could perhaps help overcome the many obstacles encountered by local communities to the identification and implementation of the site. If a centre of excellence is created in nuclear research and a guarantee of absolute safety and transparency is given to the communities on radioactive waste management, the advantages of the scale could be greater than the disadvantages of the site. Without considering that it has been calculated that further delays in the realization of the deposit could still lead to a cost of about a billion in a decade in penalties to be paid by Italy. Therefore on this subject it would serve a greater decision-making capacity by the Government, leading to a fast and transparent solution no longer procrastinable. In the approach to the radioactive waste sector there is, in short, an ordinary history of accumulated delays (the last ones from Decree-Law No. 45 of 2014), with a series of cascade damage caused by the absence of operational decisions, first of all the unsustainable delay in the formulation of the proposal contained in the Charter of areas potentially suitable for the location of the national repository. The two reports on the reclamation of the chemical poles of the so-called North Quadrilateral are also an important analysis. We share the need to combine the need for reclamation with the reuse of sites for new industrial activities with a lower impact on the environment, that is for other activities for productive use, starting from the solution of the critical issues that have been identified as barriers to the prospects of reindustrialization. A better use of the public funds available for the reclamations should be realized, through the exercise of an effective technical-administrative control on the interventions to be completed starting, for example, from the margins of the macro-islands of Porto Marghera, through a greater involvement of the role and the resources of the private ones and a simplification of the procedures of reclamation and for the reuse of the site for successive purposes, starting from the administrative need to organize the numerous bodies concerned through a strong coordination, equipped with skills and knowledge adapted to the complexity of the subjects to be addressed. With regard to the report on Liguria, we are in the presence of a broad survey of the current situations and the various problems identified by the Commission between January and March 2015, before it inherited them in June 2015, the new junta chaired by Toti. These are problems that in a region with a particular and unique orography are particularly difficult to keep under control. Among other things, it affects the seasonality of solid urban waste in a region with a touristic vocation that sees the increase of the population present especially in the months that see the greater turnout of visitors. But particular and challenging also turns out the management of the various ports present, between which that of Genoa, that it is found to dispose of the waste of a colossus of the sea like the Costa Concordia. It has to be said that Liguria has, since last December, put on line the new system of access to environmental databases of the regional information system, thus making the regional situation clearer, storing the information deriving from environmental controls and monitoring. With regard to the territorial report on the Liguria Region, I believe that one of the great points of merit of the Commission is to have brought to the Senate Chamber, without softening any, a matter of particular importance in the management of emissions and waste relating to the production of energy in the Tirreno Power thermal power plant of Vado Ligure, characterized by a systematic arson against the territory. I say this because this real disaster (in which they would have lost their lives, because of illegal conduct of managers and civil servants, not less than four hundred people, and would have been treated in an illegal way more than 27,000 tons of waste) must be analysed, in compliance with the ongoing action by the judiciary, to the end, in order to allow the identification of procedures and management models technically and administratively appropriate to the management of complex industrial sites, overcoming political-business-institutions that have marked heavily the Province of Savona for long years. The subject cannot be dealt with in a brief debate and certainly requires a thorough examination, of which the specific chapter of the report can be the starting point. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by taking a positive look at the bicameral Commission's reports and inviting the Government to gather the brief indications that we have pointed out in this explanation of vote, with further calls for concrete action to be taken to ensure the safety of citizens and businesses in the area of waste treatment and disposal in order to avoid further disbursements due to very harmful infringement procedures. The Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the four resolutions, with the final hope that the commitment requested by the Government will not remain a dead letter and will quickly lead to appropriate solutions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Compagnone and Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u82	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I would like to begin the explanation of vote on behalf of the Democratic Party on the very basis of the unique appreciations made by this House. I share these appreciations, which are aimed at the work of the whole Commission and of all its members, which together with us have produced results through today's reports and which will produce them in the future, with tomorrow's reports. I think it is clear to everyone that there is a very gloomy view, for our country, in the field of waste cycle in general, the resulting issue of recycling, the cross-border transfer of waste and that sick industrialization, which has not considered the environment as a fundamental element of assessment for the health of citizens and workers. We all wanted to define it clearly, without putting dust under the carpet and not subtracting from Parliament's evidence any of the elements of great political, economic and need for government. Let me make a bitter assessment: precisely this fact could not and should have allowed what happened in this House, with the epithets and insults that we have heard. I believe that those who have taken these issues seriously know that criminal entrepreneurs exist and have existed, exist and have existed corrupt politicians and local administrators, but we cannot and must not allow ourselves, in this very House, to make a bundle of grass. In the missions and hearings that have followed hundreds in the course of this year and a half, we have seen an Italy that wants to raise the spirit, solve the problems and put at the centre of legality, wants to make transparency and legal certainty the fundamental basis on which to proceed and create employment, even in such a delicate and gloomy sector, as is that of the waste cycle for how it was treated. I propose in particular two examples, the first of which wants to highlight the work done... (Brussio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues of the Democratic Party, the representative of your Group is speaking in an explanation of vote: please a minimum of courtesy. PUPPATE (PD). As I said, Mr President, in order to represent the work that has been carried out, I would like to remind you that the Commission of Inquiry has realized, in the course of its hearing, and has highlighted to the judicial authorities - also carrying out tasks proper to the judicial authority - the greater economic burden, probably useless, resulting from the multiple tests - dozens and even hundreds - useless and harmful, relating to the margins of the Venice lagoon. We realized, reading the papers, that all those figures had been largely compensated for a double role of control and control, thereby diluting the penalties that should have been put at the head of those responsible. This is a Commission which, where it has presented itself (I would say almost everywhere in Italy, from Sicily to Valle d'Aosta), represented the need to proceed quickly with respect to situations of Bonifiche that were "set up" and had not been able to proceed. This means that this Parliament has in the Committees of Inquiry a fundamental instrument, not only to allow the laws that are adopted in this Parliament, in this Senate, to become operational and positive action for the territories, but also to enable us to make, as we are doing today, an inspection report of the investigations that we have gone to carry out. There are lights and shadows, as we have seen in the report that he felt, with regard to the Quadrilateral of chemistry, to highlight how there is also a functioning Italy. There is an Italy that did not work, in Liguria, Lazio, Tuscany and many other parts of the peninsula, but there is also an Italy that works. For example, what happened inside the SIN of Ferrara and Ravenna allows us to say that, where there is a public governance able to take hands the complex system of reclamations together with the private companies that want to implement those re-industrializations to reindustrialize otherwise sick areas, the SINs work and can proceed. I now turn to Undersecretary Barbara Degani, who I know is particularly sensitive to these issues and who is working in every way to allow a complex but necessary activity to continue. All these considerations tell us that on the subject, which I have addressed personally, of the decommissioning of nuclear installations it must be borne in mind that decommissioning allows us to activate a technologically advanced industrial sector, in which Italy has the potential to consolidate skills and excellences fully and massively spendable in the international industrial panorama. There are already 10 plants that have been shut down in the rest of Europe. If we were to assert our know-how and our potential, this would really be an opportunity that would allow us to make many people work and assert many skills in Italy. I would like to end by thanking everyone again and pointing out that the work that I would like the policy to be carried out is not only that of the prosecution as such, which is useful but serves little, but also that of lighting a candle when there is darkness, that is to say of allowing it to proceed intelligently and consciously, in an understandable way so that we can transmit our work out of here. This did not happen this morning, with the departure from the Chamber of the school that brought with it the idea of sick institutions, that do not work, that quarrel, that are opposed with abusive words when instead what we did this morning was basically a positive work and useful information to the Government and the country. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups and Senator Companione.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u84	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u85	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I am opposed to document No 7 alone, which deals with the report on the management of radioactive waste in Italy. I welcome the commitment and also the comments of my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, who have done excellent work in the Commission, and also the rightly critical remarks of the Commission as a whole. I believe, however, that the demands made in this document are too weak, limiting themselves to expressions of concern or wish. I quote briefly two points in particular that have left me perplexed. One is the extensive disquisition that the Commission made on the criterion for which ISPRA, in June 2014, based on the data of the Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology, has practically indicated the opportunity to exclude, with the sole criterion of high seismicity, almost all Italy from the identification of the site for the storage of nuclear waste. It has been noted that the geological and hydrogeological criterion should have been given more importance, but I do not think it is enough: there are also criteria that perhaps fall outside the competence of the ISPRA or the Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology, for example of sociopolitical or socio-economic type. We think, in the light of the recent attacks in Belgium, of the possibility of transporting nuclear waste by sea: I believe that there would be major problems, even from the point of view of possible terrorist risks. Not to mention the absurd hypothesis of placing a storage of nuclear waste in regions where military exercises are carried out, where sometimes some missile escapes control (I refer to my Region, Sardinia). Other considerations have been ignored by the Commission, such as socio-economic considerations, concerning the incompatibility of certain economic activities - I am thinking of tourism - with the presence of a radioactive waste site. But the thing that made me more inclined to vote against was the failure to request a correction of Legislative Decree No. 31 of 2010, which provides, yes, as privileged a shared procedure for identifying the site, but does not exclude, as it should have done, the possibility of resorting to an imposing procedure in case of failure of an understanding. In a territory where you have to put an eternal bond (because storing nuclear waste means having an eternal bond in that territory) you can not at all hypothesize an imposing procedure, at the cost of paying all of us, all the rest of Italy. In that territory where the site for the storage of nuclear waste is located, from the moment the works start they must completely disappear unemployment, environmental problems, unfinished works and all the rest of Italy should help to pay for this, focusing exclusively on shared procedures, as is done in other countries, perhaps more civil than ours. This is the main reason why I object: because the Commission has not had the courage to ask for a correction of the decree, completely excluding the possibility of imposing a nuclear deposit, as has been attempted in the past, in Scanzano Jonico. So my vote on the motion for a resolution will be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u87	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u88	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I too am speaking about nuclear waste and I am from Scanzano Jonico. Thirteen years ago I had the chance, being in the government, to witness that popular uprising that blew up a project, then proposed and already shared by the mayor, to which the Province and the Region did not oppose; you all know how it ended: a popular uprising forced the Government to back down. This document is evasive and superficial. But excuse me: does Parliament know that ISPRA has already delivered a map of possible sites to store, from which we will have to choose a site, and does the government keep it in the drawer? Of course he keeps it in the drawer, because on April 17 there is a referendum on drills and the government will be careful not to make known the choice of the site. Then there are the local elections in June and you will be careful to make it known. Then there will be the referendum in October, and you will be careful to tell us what the sites are; so there will be the general elections, in a year and a half, and all the more so, keep the map of the possible sites in the drawer. Why this? Because at the time when the names of the potential sites will be announced, we will have many local revolts of mayors, administrators, the bishop, the parish priest, Confindustria, Coldiretti, who will impose the withdrawal of the localities: one because seismic, another because it is Sardinia, another because anthropized. If one wanted to be serious, as in all Europe, it would have had to be imposed on the Government, meanwhile, to make known - since they have been deposited for a year - what are the locations chosen as potential sites, and then a time within which the site is received, otherwise - and that is why I express my dissent - I tell you from now on that is a pantomime, at the end of which no site will be chosen until the next legislature, just for the reasons of the intervention that I have just heard, because at the time when the site will be made known, all the local polemics will be maximized. As this is taken for granted, since a storage site must be there, if the national state cannot decide where to place it, the state fails. Italy will be, that is, the only country in the world that for these conditions will not be able to store nuclear material. This resolution is so weak and hypocritical that it will not have my vote. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u91	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u92	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Puppatoto, Pagnocelli, Nugnes, Di Biagio, Marinello, De Petris, Orellana, Compagnone, Augello, Pepe and Arrigoni, on document XXIII, No 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Puppatoto, Pagnocelli, Nugnes, Di Biagio, Marinello, Rossi Maurizio, Orellana, Compagnone, Augello, Pepe and Arrigoni, on document XXIII, No 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Puppatoto, Pagnocelli, Nugnes, Di Biagio, Marinello, De Petris, Orellana, Compagnone, Augello, Pepe and Arrigoni, on document XXIII, No 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u95	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, I was wrong to vote: my vote was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u96	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 4, tabled by Senators Puppatoto, Pagnocelli, Nugnes, Di Biagio, Marinello, De Petris, Orellana, Compagnone, Augello, Pepe and Arrigoni, on document XXIII, No 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, in view of the need for the Commissions to meet to examine the decree-law concerning cooperative credit, our work is starting to be completed this morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u99	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, let us talk a little bit about a particular subject: Italian post offices and post offices, because I believe there is a need on the part of the Government to intervene immediately on the closure of post offices in our country. The so-called rationalization of post offices does not seem to bear good fruit. Now, I do not know whether the method that has been chosen, the consultation and listening of the local administrators concerned before making choices that directly affect the citizen, adopted by the ANCI and the Italian Post Office is bearing fruit, but it does not seem, because things have happened. The Council of State had to deal with the closure of useless and inefficient garrisons by Poste Italiani and the opposition by the municipalities, aimed at avoiding inconvenience to the elderly resident population. In the present case, a municipality in Puglia had indicated some forms of direct contribution to the peripheral office, in order to support it and keep it active; of course, the Council of State considers that such interventions would run the risk of facing state aid. This is one case, but there is another: the TAR of Lazio, a few days ago, suspended the closure of the post office in Saluggia. Then there is another legal battle, which however treats 41 municipalities between the Provinces of Asti, Cuneo and Alexandria, interested in the decision to have the mail delivered every other day. This time judges promise quick decisions. This will be a pilot case, because the municipalities concerned with this rationalization are 4,721, more than half of all Italian municipalities. I also tell you that the TAR has accepted the appeal lodged by the Municipality of Bagni di Lucca for the closure of a fraction of the post office in Montefegatesi. So there's chaos. And I do not tell you the inconveniences in my territory, in Abruzzo, especially in the hinterland of the city of Vasto, which suffers these same problems. I would like to remind you that the European directive states the guarantee of the postal address for at least five days a week and that this condition can only be waived in exceptional circumstances or geographical conditions. What is becoming exceptional, in negative, is the condition of the inhabitants. I remember that more than half of the Italian municipalities are affected by the so-called rationalization. Now, I strongly demand that those who govern find satisfactory solutions, avoiding leopard stains in Italy, recourse to the TAR and the Council of State and above all avoiding discomfort to the citizens, because I remind those who govern that they should be able to govern precisely for the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u102	DIRINDIN (PD). Mr President, today, 31 March, a year has passed since the date set by Law No 81 of 2014, approved by Parliament, for the closure of judicial psychiatric hospitals, but unfortunately, 90 people are still locked up in the four surviving psychiatric hospitals (PDGs). In Montelupo Fiorentino there are 40 people, in Reggio Emilia there are 6, in Aversa 18 and in Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto 26. The structure of Secondigliano di Napoli was closed in December 2015, while that of Castiglione delle Stiviere has only changed its name, turning from OPG into a residence for the execution of security measures, in which today more than 220 people are hospitalized, former internees, now hospitalized, we would like to be able to say to all effects patients hosted and treated, from the same structure in which those people have been restricted for many long years. A further 230 people are now hospitalized in the REMS, those structures that some Regions have built and where they have almost always been simply transferred the former persons interned in the OPG, to which they are assured a certainly more welcoming and less degraded environment than that in which they have lived for long years, but to which they are still offered a mainly detention measure and not a real diagnostic-therapeutic-rehabilitative path, able to favor their recovery and social inclusion of the same. The slowness with which many Regions have implemented Law No. 81 of 2014, although with different situations: some Regions have moved faster, while others are far behind, so much so that six Regions are not fulfilling (Piedmont, Veneto, Tuscany, Abruzzo, Calabria and Puglia). These have recently been commissioners, as required by Law No 81 of 2014 and as the Health Commission has repeatedly urged the Government to do. The Health Commission and individual senators and senators have visited some Residences for the implementation of the Health Security measure (EMS) and have appreciated some positive experiences of residences included within other structures for the protection of health, in close connection with the network of social and health services and with the territory of belonging, with a collaborative and dialectical relationship with the judiciary. But we have also been able to verify that, in view of this better structural arrangement (in itself important for the dignity and well-being of the people), unfortunately the logic of custody still prevails: little or no possibility of activities outside the structure, armed security guards, barbed wire, bars to the windows. Even the health, therapeutic and rehabilitation logic is not always adequate. We therefore believe that the best way to remember this anniversary, out of all rhetoric and in a collaborative spirit, is to reiterate to the Government and Regions the priorities imposed by Law No 81 of 2014, priorities also indicated to the Commissioner for the overcoming of the OPGs, recently appointed by the Government, that we hope can do a good job. I list very briefly the four priorities: proceed with the utmost urgency to take charge by the services of the territories of which they belong - and not necessarily only for a transfer to the REMS - of the persons still interned in the surviving OPGs, so as to close them definitively; act, in compliance with the requirements of Law No 81 of 2014, above all to ensure that the alternative measures to detention are the norm and not the exception (as unfortunately still happens often); proceed urgently to adopt an act that prevents - or makes exceptional - the improper sending of persons to temporary security measure in REMS, a phenomenon that, like the sending of prisoners from prison, is delaying the closure of the OPGs (someone strives to empty the OPGs, but there is someone else who fills the places that remain empty); guarantee, except exceptional cases (which we know can always exist) the respect of the territoriality that, in addition to harming the rights of the people, makes difficult, in some Regions, the completion of the process of overcoming of the OPGs. On this, as the Health Commission has done in recent years, we will continue to monitor, in the hope that this bad experience of our country will be closed. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Maurizio Romani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u105	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, in the aftermath of the events in Brussels, President Renzi convened the Security Committee, which was also attended by Minister Alfano. In that place I noted that it said that we must intensify controls in our country and suggested that we introduce in the mosques the obligation to use exclusively the Italian language. We believe that controls should not be intensified only in the mosques for the security of our country. I report two posts published on social networks, the most famous of which is Facebook, of the imam of Trento. In a first post he puts Putin's picture and calls him a real criminal who tries his weapons in Syria. That is to say, by overturning reality, we define who fought ISIS in Syria as a criminal, who goes to play games and try his own weapons. In a second post the imam argues that there are those who benefit from terrorism and these are dictatorial regimes, which finance terrorism in order to destabilise the situation and continue to remain in power. In the post he argues that the Syrian regime is the most striking example of regimes that would fund terrorists in order to stabilise and remain in power. The post closes as follows: the Syrian people must be helped to free themselves from their regime, which defines the Nazi state of the Assads. Mr President, I have found that these posts contain exhortations. Some young people may also be called upon to enlist to fight, at this point, a holy war of liberation precisely against the Syrian Government, for the way it has been defined. I therefore ask Minister Alfano: that he actually do the controls that he has shown us about everything that happens in the mosques, without forgetting to control the social networks, which are perhaps even more dangerous for the widespread diffusion they have. I will deliver the two posts to the Presidency and, in case the Minister of the Interior detects the possibility of crime, I would ask you to follow up according to the rules of our system. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u108	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, I think that this morning's affair is attributable to a burnout of so many people who are not used to working, for whom three days of work per week may be too many. These are unacceptable things, but they have been commented on and we laugh a little 'up, to decompress, because otherwise we would have to think and the thing is really very serious. If I had known that this Movement, which had to be critical, but also improvement, had led not only to not improve things, but even to dig, I would probably never have run for office and would not have done what I did. Unfortunately, I did. The Movement has more and more consents, but together with them increase the disinformation, the exploitation of news and the obfuscation of facts and data. For example, this Movement always refers to the rules. But what rules? Those who tell them and then do not respect, those who interpret differently depending on whether they concern them or other people. It's also silly rules. I am thinking, for example, of all the controversy they have caused about the cards introduced or not. There is also another rule in this House that should not be taken up. Well, this morning, in addition to the insults, Senator Endrizzi wanted to make a video, probably to publish on social networks, one of his many videos that I would call diseducational, similar to what he did recently with the sugar bag, where he spilled sugar and made a track on the counter that, according to his intentions, had to indicate the stop to gambling (I manage instead, personally, I interpret almost as an invitation to drug addiction and drugs). Perhaps sometimes the intentions may be good, but they produce bad results. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia, I invite you to return to issues of interest to the Assembly. FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, I am referring to the fact that not only people who allow themselves to be overexuberant and reactivity, but also those who in a more subtle way violate the rules of this House and use them to denigrate people and make improper political use of them, must be filmed. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senators Bocchino, Campanella and Verducci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u111	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor because, unfortunately, there has been no way of speaking when President Gasparri presided. Several times in this House there are derogatory, irreverent and offensive attitudes towards other senators and speakers, particularly against the right of those who would like to hear what is being said here. There are therefore two parts offended when there is the very agitated externation of a colleague. First of all I invite those who preside over the session (first it was Senator Gasparri) to be a little more assertive, peremptory and also punitive towards such attitudes precisely for... PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Bencini, it seems to me that President Gasparri has behaved like this today: two in a single shot is not a little. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Look, it's not so much the amount, but probably the fact that we've gone a little too far. This isn't good for anyone, not even those who do that kind of statement, because it doesn't give them credit. I also call on the Quaestors to have a more peremptory attitude, and in this case I would like to address Senator Laura Bottici, who is also Senator Quaestor who belongs to a political group that often has a very exuberant attitude in this House and which creates such confusion that it is then necessary to suspend the work. The senators of this political group repeatedly call on this House to work from Monday to Friday, because we need to be operational in this House, but then they are the first, because of a certain kind of attitude, to block work on various fronts. I therefore also call on the 5 Star Movement, which obviously has a continuing need to take on these attitudes because it must "spam" its videos (and this too would be to be denigrated), to have a more attentive attitude to this House. They are the "5 Stars," but this is not a "stable": maybe they got a little confused in a word game. I therefore call on everyone to be more correct. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Verducci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u112	We're on the lookout, Senator Bencini. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-601.ana.u113	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.30 a.m.
