ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 5.05 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 6 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the session and go to the Pannini Room to participate in the Conference of the Leaders already convened. Work will resume at the end of this meeting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.09 p.m. and resumed at 7.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u9	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are calling for the quorum to be checked again. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. [[Senator D'Anna points out the malfunction of the voting detection device.]] Senator, we take note of your difficulty. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 19.11).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u13	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders has approved changes and additions to the current calendar, in relation to the work of the Budget Committee on the Update Note to the 2016 Economy and Finance Document. Tomorrow morning from 9.30 a.m. to 11 a.m. the motions on obesity will be discussed, already on today's agenda. At the same time, they are authorised to convene the Budget Commission and the Justice Commission for the examination respectively of the Update Note to the DEF and the Decree-Law on the efficiency of the judicial offices. At 11 a.m., the Government's communications will take place with a view to the European Council on 20 and 21 October. In tomorrow's afternoon sitting, beginning at 4.30 p.m., the Update Note will be examined. There is no closing time for both tomorrow's sittings, subject to the time limits. In the afternoon session of Thursday the motion on the contrast to the phenomenon of forced marriage and ratifications of international agreements will be discussed. Without prejudice to the motions already scheduled for the afternoon sessions of Tuesday 18 and 25 October, there are also motions for the afternoon session of Tuesday 8 November on women's cancers and the renewal of police contracts; for the afternoon session of Tuesday 15 November, motions on minimum pensions and olfactory pollution; and, for the afternoon session of Tuesday 22 November, motions on school. Next week's calendar provides for the examination of the decree-law on the efficiency of judicial offices and of three draft laws defined by the 7th Permanent Commission (Festival Verdi, Geological Sciences, Casa Museo Gramsci). In the afternoon of Thursday 20 October the question time will take place with the Minister of Education, University and Research. At meetings between 25 and 27 October, the colleague on self-employment and, where concluded by the competent Commissions, the draft law on parks and civil protection will be examined. At its meetings on 2 and 3 November, the reports of the Committee of Inquiry into Waste and the proposal to set up a Committee of Inquiry into the earthquake in Abruzzo will be discussed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u14	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, which met today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following programme of the Senate's proceedings for October, November and December 2016. - 20th anniversary of the Vulture of the Law n. 1375 - Amendments to the Law 20 December 2012, n. 238, for the support and valorization of the Vulture of the Greens of Parma and Busseto - Disegno di legge n. 1892 - Interventions for the support of the formation and of the research in the geological sciences (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Measures for the protection of non-business work and measures to facilitate the flexible articulation of the times and places of the work of the Gramsci House in Ghilarza (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Measures for the protection of the self-employed work n. 119 and related - New provisions in the field of protected areas - Disegno di legge n. 2068 - Delegation to the Government for the reorder of the legislative provisions in the matter of national civil protection system (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Votto on the presence of the final part of the Law n.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u15	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted by a majority - in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable. [[Wednesday 12 October ant. h. 9.30 - Motions on the contrast to obesity - Government Communications in view of the European Council of 20 and 21 October 2016 (at 11 a.m.) Wednesday 12 October p.m. h. 16.30 - Doc. LVII n. 4-a - Update note to DEF 2016 (*) Thursday 13 October ant. h. 9,30-14 - Motion n. 637, Faithful, on initiatives to combat the phenomenon of forced marriage - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs Thursday 13 October pm. H. 16 - Questions and questions (*) Motions for resolutions on the Update Note should be tabled before the end of the general discussion, the amendments to the resolution accepted by the Government within one hour of the opinion being delivered.]] [[Tuesday 18 October ant. h. 11-13 - Motion n. 619, Philippi, on local public transport in Rome - Motion n. 555, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, on the administration of drugs Tuesday 18 October pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2550 - Decree-Law n. 168, efficiency of judicial offices (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 30 October 2016) - Drawing of law n. 1375 - Support of the Green Festival of Parma and Busseto - Drawing of law n. 1892 - Support of formation in geological sciences (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2342 - Gramsci House Museum (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) Wednesday 19 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 20 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 20 October pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Education, Universities and Research]] Amendments to bill No 2550 (Decree-Law No 168, effective judicial offices) will have to be sent by 3 p.m. on Monday 17 October. Amendments to the draft law No 1375 (Support for the Green Festival of Parma and Busseto), No 1892 (Support for training in geological sciences) and No 2342 (Casa Museo Gramsci) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Monday 17 October. [[Tuesday 25 October ant. h. 11-13 - Motion n. 627, Romani Paolo, in the matter of immigration - Motion n. 406, Marinello, on the adaptation of water infrastructure Tuesday 25 October pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following arguments not concluded - Drawing of law n. 2233 and connected - Self-employment (Linked to the maneuver of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 119 and related - Parks and protected areas (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2068 - Reordering of the national system of civil protection (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 26 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 27 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 27 October pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 119 and related (Protected Parks and Areas) and No 2068 (Reorder of the National Civil Protection System) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. [[Wednesday 2 November pom. h. 16.30-20 - Follow-up to unfinished topics - Doc. No XXIII, nos. 17 and 20 - Reports of the Commission of inquiry into the waste cycle on the Veneto Region and the Sicily Region - Doc. XXII, n. 5 - Institution Committee of Inquiry into Seismic Events in Abruzzo - Documents in the matter of insindacability defined by the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys Thursday 3 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 3 November pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] In the afternoon session on Tuesday 8 November, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., the motions n. 638, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, on women's cancers and n. 623, Gasparri, on the renewal of contracts of police forces will be discussed. At the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 15 November, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., motions No. 591, Bonfrisco, on minimum pensions and No. 569, Baptist, on olfactory pollution will be discussed. At the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 22 November, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., motions no. 589 and 590, Centinaire, on second-class teachers and on the qualification of precarious teachers. Time distribution for discussion on government communications in view of the European Council of 20 and 21 October 2016 (3 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, of which: PD 34' FI-PdL XVII 17' M5S 16 AP (NCD-UDC) 14' Mixed 14' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 12' AL-A 12' GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 11' LN-Aut 10' COR 10' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, n. 4-a (Note of update to the 2016 Economy and Finance Document) (5 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: PD 41' FI-PdL XVII 21' M5S 19' AP (NCD-UDC) 17' Mixed 17' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 15' AL-A 14' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 13' LN-Aut 12' COR 12' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2550 (Decree-Law No 168, efficiency of judicial offices) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 8' FI-PdL XVII 35' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 29' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 23' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2233 and related (Autonomous work) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 34' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u18	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, let me start by saying that we are now faced with innovations and, from innovation to innovation, I do not know frankly where we are going to end up. The House must know that the usual communications of the President of the Council, scheduled for tomorrow in view of the European Council, will not be there: President Renzi decided that it was more appropriate to make them only in the Chamber of Deputies. The jokes in this case could be a lot. Let us hope that tomorrow afternoon he will not have yet another initiative in the referendum election campaign and that it is not for this reason that he has decided not to come to the Senate. The fact is that it is absolutely regrettable to note that, once again, as we have also noted on other occasions, the President-in-Office of the Council thinks that we have already voted in the referendum and that - and he is wrong to think so - constitutional reform has already passed. Evidently, you've already done your calculations. Of course, all of us are committed so that this forecast does not come true. However, we cannot fail to stigmatize, once again, this attitude towards the Senate which - perhaps someone remembers this - the President-in-Office of the Council has already expressed since his first appearance in this House on the occasion of his confidence in the Government. Mr President, there is another serious matter, which I believe is linked to the same kind of attitude that the President-in-Office of the Council sees preferring to make his communications, inter alia with a view to a very important European Council, only to the House of Members. The sign of this attitude, which is intended to make the Senate appear to be a totally useless House, is also evident from the timetable approved by a majority by the Conference of Leaders and of which you, Mr President, first gave a reading. I would like to point out that the examination of measures such as the one we were examining (i.e. the draft law amending the penal code and the rules on limitation) is postponed to the date to be allocated. On a precise question, you answer that you do not know. These measures were already before this House and, as a matter of fact, have been postponed to the date to be allocated. The competition measure has also been in the Senate for a long time, yet its examination has been postponed sine die. Next week will be very intense from the cultural point of view, however, and I come to make my request, in the Senate are stopped for a long time some measures of which we ask for calendarization because absolutely priority over other drafts of law that have been inserted on the calendar and that had never appeared before in the programming of our works. Mr President, I am here to ask you, once again and well in advance, to include the draft law on homophobia in the schedule of work of the week from 24 to 28 October. This measure has also been in the Justice Commission since October 2013. Frankly, I do not understand why we do not want to bring this bill to the House. I say immediately that it has nothing to do with perfect bicameralism, equality or the shuttle: it has only and only to do with it, as we can see every time we discuss the calendar, the will of the majority, so much so that the provision on the prescription slips because there is no agreement in the majority and, in the same way, other measures for political issues within the majority and not because of institutional mechanisms. As the opposition has repeatedly called for, I also urge that the bill on identification codes be drawn up on a calendar basis, the examination of which has been completed in the Commission. The timetable already provides for the discussion of motions on the renewal of contracts by the police forces, and I think it would be good to schedule this measure as well, given that its examination in the Commission has ended. Let me turn to the third question. The bill on citizenship, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, has been here in the Senate for a year now and I believe that, at this point, it would be absolutely fundamental, even to move the work, to insert it in the schedule of works of the first week of November. I believe - I repeat - that it is absolutely possible to include this bill as well. Mr President, I am talking about measures which have been in the Senate for a long time and which I believe are absolutely priority over other measures which have also been included in the agenda (I am thinking of those planned for next week). The work of the Senate cannot continue to be like what we have seen in recent weeks, because - I appeal to all senators - if someone is playing at the wreck to prove that the Senate is absolutely useless, it is time to end it and react and show that there are all the wills to do a serious job here. That is why, Mr President, I call for the work of the draft legislation which I have just referred to to to be included in the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u19	I address the greetings of the Assembly to the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Erodotus" of Corigliano Calabro, in the province of Cosenza, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u22	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I propose that the decree-law on the efficiency of judicial offices be dealt with on Wednesday, having arrived only today in the Commission. If we want to give a minimum of appearance of effective participation in the legislative process, we must have time to examine the amendments and to obtain the opinion of the 1st Commission, which is why I propose to set aside Tuesday, with a strong understanding between the majority and the opposition, so that there are no obstructions, so that the measure can be examined from Wednesday. If, on the other hand, the exam is scheduled for Tuesday, it means denying the possibility to the Senate to actually express a cognite cause opinion. [[Applause from Senator Marin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u23	Senator Caliendo, the decree-laws have priority; when the examination is completed in the Commission, in that week they are included in the calendar. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, but Wednesday, not Tuesday. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That week. For tomorrow morning the Justice Commission is authorized to meet to examine the measure. I take the opportunity to integrate the calendar that I have read. At its meetings on 2 and 3 November, the Council of Parliament's election and parliamentary immunity documents are also provided for.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u26	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the majority and my fellow majority leaders for listening to us and putting our two motions on the school. As I said at the Conference of the Leaders, the school is experiencing a particular moment of revolution - alas - not positive, and many students find themselves, more than a month after the beginning of the school year, without teachers. Therefore, we are very pleased to see the possibility of dealing with such an important subject, even in a short time - and I thank you for that -. We also welcome the idea of calendarizing, immediately from Thursday, the motion on the contrast to the phenomenon of forced marriage, at the first signature of President Faithful, which sees us co-signators. In this case too, the Senate shows timeliness in making decisions. The proposal that we make, following also the line of my colleague De Petris, is to include in the calendar the follow-up to the examination of the bill n. 2067 amending the penal code, then to start treating it again as quickly as possible. We would also like to point out, alas (we also did so at the Conference of the Leaders), that the President-in-Office of the Council is not here tomorrow for a debate with a view to the European Council. This, Mr President - you have certainly heard this before, but I would like to discuss it with my fellow senators - we are sorry for some reasons. First of all because, despite President Renzi's wishes, we are still in an equal bicameralism, and as a result we believe that if President Renzi decides to go to the Chamber of Deputies to confront his fellow Members, it is just a passage to the Senate as well. We are the same thing: explain it to President Renzi, who may not have understood it yet. The second reason why we want to stigmatize this lack on the part of your President-in-Office of the Council is the fact that he and not someone else will participate in the European Council. Consequently, when he is going to Europe and - alas - representing Italy in Europe, we would like to speak with him and not with a delegate or perhaps with a card, put there, with the face of the President-in-Office of the Council. Therefore, the possibility of confronting and exchanging views between the majority, the opposition and the government on what will happen in the European Council will unfortunately fail. Another reason why, Mr President, we do not trust President Renzi's words comes from the fact that, in our opinion, he will no longer set foot in the Senate Chamber. The last time we saw him here, he came with a cup of coffee in his hand, to listen to the colleague talking about the reconstruction of the territories affected by the earthquake. He arrived quiet and blessed, was here not half an hour, drank tea, coffee or what was in the cup, then took, greeted friends and left. So we can think of that moment when, in this Senate Chamber, he told us that he would be the last President of the Council to ask us for trust. He told us at the time: therefore, according to him - if this is the case with the Italians, it is a different thing - there will no longer be a President of the Council who will ask the Senate for confidence. Our view, however, is that there will no longer be a President of the Council sitting there, among the benches of the government in this House, if things continue to go in this direction. Therefore, we do not trust him: we would have liked to see him and confront us, also because we would hate to talk here with a Minister or his delegate, what President Renzi will have to say in Europe and then, at the same time, see him taking off his clothes as President of the Council and wearing those as leaders of the Democratic Party or of the yes committees and hearing him speak, in one of the 220 public meetings in which he will participate - always paid by the Italian citizens and at the expense of politics - of the tired senators, who instead are in the Chamber, without even knowing what we are doing. It has happened often: you will remember his absence from the Chamber during the debate on institutional reforms, when he went to see the match of Italy. I will keep reminding him: I wonder how he can explain the reforms to the Italians, since he was watching the game while we were talking about it. So, Mr President, the hope is that there will be a second thought (although I know it will not be, because unfortunately we know how things are). The hope is that someone will explain to the President of the Council that there are two Chambers: the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic - alas, for him - and most likely, thanks to the Italians, they will remain beyond his mandate as President of the Council [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Compañera and Zizza.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u29	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I will endeavour to be as quick as possible, because the political comments on innovation that you have discussed with the Conference of Leaders today have already been very well illustrated by colleagues who have spoken before me. I allowed myself to say to you, at the Conference of the Leaders, that if there was a time and timing requirement of the Government, the Chambers, in their autonomy, could quietly comply with a request to this effect from the Government. But I must confess to you, Mr President, that I would never have accepted, as President of the Senate, to produce an innovation, which will mark the life of the Chambers in the future, not so much and not only because as long as this Senate exists it deserves all our respect (and I do not think you would have disrespected the Senate); but I think that we should have thought better about who had political ownership in order to innovate today in this way a practice and a procedure that has so far governed the life of the two Assemblyes of Parliament. In fact, if this is the fruit of an alliance that returns and returns, that is, of what was once called the Nazarene covenant, that like a karst river falls down and then reappears on a question that seems simple but that in reality calls into question the role of equality of the two Chambers, if this was to be, we saw it today at the Conference of the Leaders. For this reason, while understanding the reasons also of the timing, which sometimes is against us and against the work that is being properly attempted (whether Parliament or the Executive), the Government had a good right to ask the Chambers to be able to find a conciliation and to find a pragmatic solution that would solve the problem. Instead, we did not want to solve a problem, but to give this House a moral slap. In fact, if that were not the case, why was this innovation to start exactly from the Senate and tomorrow? But what if, as I overshadowed, all this probably hid some other concern, some other problem on three major issues that I quickly come to list? I am referring first of all to having to deal with the very delicate issue of the DEF between tonight and tomorrow, on which this government is limping from all sides. The second is that a timetable had to be completely emptied of the two major issues which, in addition to the DEF, anguish the life of this Government, or of the President of the Council or of some other Minister: I am referring to the draft competition law, which must obviously disappear from the radar of this Parliamentary Assembly, because the Government is unable to consistently express its views in a unitary design in which the Commission expresses the entire position of its Ministries in the various articulations and in relation to the issues posed by the draft competition law. Therefore, what Minister Calenda said just a few days ago is punctually denied: he hoped that the draft competition law would come to the Chamber but, despite the patient and great work of two speakers in this Senate who worked a whole year on the bill in question (because the government did not express opinions and was unable to do so), we arrive in November and the draft competition law fades. With the fog of the Val Padana also goes the draft competition law, so much we expect that of next year, on which probably this Government, if it still exists, will arrive in October to express opinions. This is a very important issue, but there is an even more distressing one for the President-in-Office of the Council, who is the prescription and the big issue that has opened up with the judiciary in the close confrontation on this issue. We are therefore at the third major issue, on which the Government risks falling even before the date of the referendum. Then there will be a referendum and then we will probably find a way to postpone further the major problems we face. Instead, as you have just read us in this calendar hypothesis, from now to November we are not dealing with just one of the great problems of Italians (who have three or four major problems), including first of all their economic life and their lives in a dramatic crisis that obviously does not concern either the Government or Parliament, otherwise some of these issues, at a stage such as the current one, could have dealt with it. That is why I repeat our total opposition to this calendar of perditempo. This is a calendar to waste time and to cover the government and its inability. I would like to reiterate that my proposal to be able to schedule as soon as possible the debate on 13 draft laws on the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the Italian banking system, because, as I have already said, Mr President, from here to a few weeks, the country will discover, to the astonishment of this Parliament, that great public intervention will be necessary in our banks. We will then perhaps have to examine or vote on a decree without even knowing what has happened in our banking system for the last two years, within our banks. In fact, dear President Marino, lies and sleeps a quiet sleep a cognitive survey on the Italian banking system: the only way you had to postpone the discussion of a delicate and important topic, this yes, for the life of the Italians. As in my request, which you have accepted, and I thank you for that, Mr President, to schedule a motion on pensions, there is another subject, which concerns the lives of millions of Italians. And for this I thank you: for having scheduled, on 15 November, the motion on Italian pensions. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u32	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we could only expect a timetable such as that proposed by the majority and wanted us to be heard. Clearly, we have evidence from every point of view that the whole discussion and what will happen in the coming weeks will only be aimed at the false propaganda that the President of the Council is doing to convince the Italians of the goodness and ability of his Government. If your Government were serious, Mr President, it would continue the work already begun here in this House on the reform of the criminal trial, which I would ask you to recalendarize immediately, when the work is resumed, the relevant measure. Let us remember that this reform, by the will of the Government, was set aside last week as if it were not a priority. Then we find the President of the Council of Ministers who goes on television, one day yes and the other also, to say that this country needs reforms to become a certain country, starting with those that are the times of justice. And then the criminal trial is parked there in the corner. Perhaps because he must take responsibility and say yes or no, that in this case may not correspond to what he would like was the opinion of the Italians about yes or no, because it will prevail the no. Mr President, I would like to add at once another good reason why we would have expected this timetable and not a serious timetable for work. In fact, the Finance Committee has for a long time laid down a set of draft laws on the revision of the banking system's relations, for the separation of the speculative banking system from the commercial one. You see, Mr President, it is the so-called system that is causing the whole banking system to go down - speculation. On this point I would ask you to bring all the bills relating to banking separation to the House immediately, because it is time for this measure to be dealt with and for the President of the Council of Ministers to come in here and justify the reasons why, when interested, banks are not a problem and therefore the decree-laws are made at night at Palazzo Chigi, and, when they are of interest to the citizens, the measures are left to lie closed in the closets. They are her skeletons in the closet with regard to the banks and its troubled relations with the financial system that she does not want to face here in this House and, therefore, denies the citizens the right to see their savings protected. But there are other measures, such as the bill No. 1951, President, which lies in the Commission and concerns the rights of the Fire Departments, the discontinuous ones, the same ones that the President of the Council and the majority who support it applauded in the days of the earthquake, when they were there to risk their lives, as they had already done and do every day, to save our fellow citizens in difficulty, but that they forget well to consider when it comes to giving certainties to those who today are discontinuous and are not stabilised, and the under-organic: there are more than 50,000 vacancies, in our country, regarding the Fire Departments. Today there are firefighters waiting to be stabilized and vacant. What is the reason why no answer is given and these are not considered as priorities? Perhaps because they are not enough to satisfy the electoral consensus of the President of the Council? Perhaps because they have been mocked several times, with winks and winks that have not ended, and now the President of the Council is ashamed to address this issue here in this House? I am very perplexed, but I am not at all surprised at how the work is evolving, because that cardboard figure that tomorrow will not sit here in the Chamber, will instead go around the country to say that everything is working for the best. In August, FIAT billed 40 percent more cars without realizing that people no longer have the money to buy cars because, as it is written on some wall, people are now forced to go to work to earn money to buy the car to go to work, to have the money to buy the car to go to work: a vicious circuit is created that is the same for which, President, in the end the country is hidden that 107,000 young Italian citizens have had to emigrate abroad to find work, while the government is importing 150,000-160,000 illegals every year, because they now make turnover and guarantee that pseudo-conson electoral that wants to guarantee the President of the Council of Ministers, not elected and appointed by Napolitano, to be able to count on the electoral consent. We call for the rapid calendarization of these measures and from here we will see whether the interest of the government is the good of the citizens or simply seek cheap electoral consensus with marchettes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u35	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I too would like to stigmatise what happened at the Conference of the Leaders, because I find it very unrespectful that Dr Renzi does not come to confront us: this, in my opinion, is a particularly serious circumstance, which only emphasizes how the timetable is subject to continuous changes. There are many measures that lie for several weeks, even before the summer, and are, as they say, "slipped" and surpassed. I believe that the importance of the bill concerning the Gramsci Museum House is very important, but many other measures are equally important, which were first scheduled and then blocked in this House. Many things have already been said by my colleagues and I do not like to repeat myself, but I repeat that it is really very sad to take note of these behaviors, precisely from a methodological point of view. It is true that there are many problems, and I do not think that the motions and all the other topics that have been included on the agenda are a waste of time, but I do make it a matter of method: there are scheduled measures that are kept on schedule, and that only demonstrates the inconsistency of a majority that is not there and a real political problem. I believe that this must be further stigmatised and stressed, because citizens must know that important measures, which change their lives, are not even taken into account. As always, I think it is extremely important to bring the measure on citizenship income to this House and I therefore call for it to be included in the timetable, as the game of keeping important measures firm in the Commission is now becoming truly intolerable. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u38	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, Senator Bonfrisco is not right when she says that this timetable has been set up to waste time. No, it's not. If it had been a calendar made to waste time, I would probably have distracted myself and maybe I wouldn't have intervened, but I didn't. It is a calendar that provides for the treatment of Decree-Law 168 of 2016. You, Mr President, have pointed out that the decree-laws have a priority and you are right: that is the case. But I wonder why the decree-law is of August 31, 2016 and the House approved it and transmitted it to the Senate on October 6, 2016, i.e. after thirty-six days. In these thirty-six days the Chamber of Deputies has made a series of modifications to all that part that regulates the appeal for Cassation. Now, Mr President, in the Committee on Justice we have not even begun the examination of the decree-law, so much so that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is to forward the opinion to the Commission on Justice, has not yet been able to provide for it. We do not yet have the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is particularly important if, prima facie, at least in the eye of each legal operator, there are profiles of dubious constitutionality. We have only a few days left to examine such a complex measure that we are going to intervene on Article 375 and others of the Code of Civil Procedure, in particular on the subject of appeal for cassation. Mr President, we would have time to dismiss the decree-law from this Senate and mine is not an intervention to ensure that the decree falls. However, it would not be honest on my part, considering that I have not yet studied it and studied it; it is not said that I do not share it, so why should I with a obstructive activity make it decay? But if we put it on the calendar for the following week, the one that begins on October 24th, we would still be in time to fire it without making the decree-law lose its effectiveness, converting it into law, appropriately, after being treated, studied and deepened. There is no time to make further changes, that is clear, but if we really have to vote on this text as we have received from the House of Deputies, without having the opportunity to amend it in some way, at least we have time to convince ourselves of the goodness of the measure! They give us time to read the opinion of the other committees involved and interested. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, please complete the intervention and make your request to change the calendar. We have very little time and other interventions are planned. We should get to the vote before the sitting is closed. FALANGA (AL-A). Thank you, Mr President, and I shall finish immediately, but I should like to say to you that you could have taken a few minutes in the previous speeches. It doesn't matter anyway, ma'am. I should like to conclude by saying that your presidency has made such a short statement: our proposal is to shift the examination and conversion of Decree-Law 168 to Tuesday, 25 October and for next week, instead, to call to the House the discussion of the reform of the criminal process which, after so much haste, was inexplicably covered up.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u40	You have it, Senator Mauro. I would remind you of the brevity in indicating the proposed changes to the Calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u41	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I shall try to arrive in a way that coincided with the amendment proposal. First of all, I must say that I agree with Mr Falanga, that I do not think that strategies are being put in place to waste time. Instead, I think that the timetable has been proposed with the precise objective of taking Parliament hostage until 4 December. [[Applause from Senators Cotti and Mineo]] This is a tran tran which has been going on for several weeks and which is being made more and more explicit. However, I must also say that I agree with the wisdom of the majority group leaders and also those who, in the opposition, wanted to agree on the matter, to allow the President-in-Office of the Council not to come to the Senate. Why do I say that? Because the bicameralism of equality has a reckless effect on the President-in-Office of the Council. In fact, being forced to listen to the opinion of the House and then to the opinion of the Senate, when he goes to Brussels what does he do? When the Council meets, it always says: 'Yes, yes, yes', especially to Mrs Merkel; outside the Council, she courageously takes the floor, because she may have listened to the other branch of Parliament, and speaks against Hollande and against Merkel. I therefore believe that, being no longer obliged to speak with the two branches of Parliament, it will finally take a stand only once. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), LN-Aut and CoR.]] And that leaves us freer, too. The "Frankfurter Allgemeine" and the "Süddeutsche Zeitung" noticed it and pointed it out wondering why? Do you have a bipolar President of the Council? No. It is more simply bicameral, because it speaks with equal bicameralism. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), LN-Aut and CoR.]] But we too will be able to say to the President of the Council: did you not come to the Senate? What he said in Europe is not in my name. You didn't speak for us, you didn't represent us. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), LN-Aut and CoR.]] Like you didn't represent us when you made a loud noise, Spanish term that means disaster, for the simple fact that you said yes to an EU-Turkey agreement that left us uncovered on the Libyan side.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u42	Senator Mario Mauro, please state your request for change.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u43	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). I imagined that there would be an early warning on which I agree, Mr President. My proposal is as follows: the only two real reforms that Europe is asking us to do are competition and justice. Hurry up and discuss it! [[Applause from the GAL Groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), M5S, LN-Aut and CoR and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u46	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, just last week I made an end-of-session speech to mention the draft competition law, No 2085. Now, I take advantage of the fact that there are spectators, who in this way will know how the meeting of the Leaders works, because we have no media power: there is no vote, so if some points are removed from the calendar, it is the majority's fault, who wants to remove them. But with regard to the competition bill, only one mistake has been made by Senator Bonfrisco: we have been working on it for nine months. The 10th Commission has worked hard on that measure and dismissed it before the holidays. Minister Calenda, on Wednesday evening, on the precise question of my colleague Senator Girotto, replied - and there is audio recording - that the draft competition law was calendarized and remained on the calendar. Therefore, unless Minister Calenda is a Pinocchio like the President of the Council, the Government wants the draft competition law to be discussed; even the 10th The Commission wishes, unanimously, to discuss the draft competition law; Mr President, I would like to ask you: who, like the magician Silvan, has made the draft competition law disappear from the calendar? Senator Gaetti spoke of citizenship income. There are three problems, in particular: poverty and therefore I call for the immediate calendarization of the income of citizenship and not of the funny bonus that the government is planning; competition, and I call for the calendarization of the relative measure for Monday, October 17; for Tuesday, October 18, I ask to address the third big problem: the Daspus for corrupt politicians, which would no longer allow you to recycle even in the participants. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u47	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings to include the examination of other draft laws, put forward by various senators. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Shareholders' Meeting to have more time available for the examination of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 168 of 2016. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). You could've had these jokes. Save them for you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I put to the vote the proposal, made by various senators, to change the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings aimed at changing the subject of communications, from government communications to communications by the President of the Council. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for the work which I have communicated to the House remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u50	MARINO Mauro Maria (PD). Mr President, as you know, I try never to abuse the patience of my fellow Members in this House, but I would like to make a speech on the shorthand report. This comes from my sense of institutions, so that if one day someone reads our acts, the Senate of the Republic will not be concerned with the issue of banks. I would therefore like to see not only the voice of those who say that this is so, with a partial intention and with a view to the timetable for this House, but that it should be known that the 6th Commission has carried out two surveys on this subject and that, if the complex but not tragic situation represented should be addressed in this House, there would be the tools available to colleagues and members of the 6th Commission to address it properly. As I said, it is a specification made for the shorthand report, which I would have allowed Senator Bonfrisco if she had come to the Commission. You wanted to involve this House and it seemed right to me to point out here that, in addition to the cooperation of all the groups present, there is a level of attention that I think is in line with the style of the Senate, which has also recently been recognised by the European Commission, given that you yourself have had the good pleasure to pass on to us the note with which the Commission adopted some considerations that we had made on the subject of banks. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u53	VALDINOSE (PD). Mr President, with this speech at the end of the sitting I continue today, in the Senate, a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she has been tied. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. The emergency continues: three other women have been victims of feminicide in recent days. On October 5 in Riccione, in the province of Rimini, Olga Matei, forty-six years old, was strangled by a man with whom she had recently begun a relationship, but who wanted to close for obsessive jealousy of him. The next day in Ghemme, in the Province of Novara, she was stabbed by her partner Olga Shugai, thirty-five years old. Yesterday, in Turin, another woman, Santina Lodi of seventy years, was found dead in her home: her husband confessed to having killed her by kicks and fists (with unheard of violence, they found the Carabinieri). This raises to 17 women we remember in this relay, which began on 30 June last. Very often the feminicide, I want to remember, is described by the media as an extreme gesture, fruit of jealousy, fear, betrayal, abandonment that man has not been able to accept. A description that often also places on the woman, the victim, a part of responsibility, as guilty of causing jealousy. It is a false representation of reality. Femicide is almost always the ultimate result of a series of long-standing violent behaviors. It is a matter of blind violence and will of dominion on the part of those who consider the woman not as a person, but as property. For this reason, I believe that the greatest commitment must be on the cultural side, in order to educate respect for and equality between men and women; a commitment that must mobilize all, women and men, institutions and all sectors of society. For this reason, I consider very important and precious the activity of the associations that in many centers of our country fight against violence against women. For this reason, I consider it essential that we implement the provision of education for gender equality, provided for in paragraph 16 of Article 1 of the law called good school. Under Law No 119 of 2013 against gender violence, which this Parliament approved in implementation of the Istanbul Convention, violence against women has been recognised as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination. This Parliament has therefore recognised that violence against women is a social phenomenon, which has its roots in the asymmetric power relationship between women and men. That is why we can and must prevent it, by intervening on the factors that determine it. That is why a plan against violence against women has been approved, and in the meantime protection instruments have been strengthened to ensure greater safety for women threatened. However, it is now necessary to monitor that these measures work and that the plan is implemented. For this reason, we propose with conviction our appeal, an appeal to the Minister with the delegation for equal opportunities and to the Government everything: the Cabin of Director, which met for the first time on September 8 last, monitor the application, the merits and the limits of Law No. 119 of 2013 and above all give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. An appeal to the media: stop justifying murderers and blaming women. An appeal to the whole country, men and women: 160 women killed every year. We can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u56	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about a victory in a battle of tax justice. In February 2016 a judgment of the Court of Cassation finally put the word "end" to a story that has lasted for many years now, saying once and for all that oil platforms off the coast of Sicily must pay the IMU like any other productive activity. The action of the judiciary has followed the great work of ascertaining the Finance Guard in recent years, which has highlighted a huge phenomenon of tax avoidance (ICI and IMU) by oil companies. On the issue we of the 5 Star Movement had already submitted a question to ask the Government for clarification on the matter, but a few days ago came the Supreme Court, which pronounced itself twice more, giving reason to other municipalities and sweeping away any perplexity on the issue, thus contributing to write a new page on the law of local communities. The issue is of course very much felt, especially for municipalities that are short of liquidity. According to the data communicated by the Ministry of Economic Development, there are 106 active platforms in Italy that extract gas and oil and, if the estimates of tax revenues, taken by default, should prove correct, the total revenue, distributed on the municipalities concerned, could reach 2 billion euros. I repeat: EUR 2 billion, not EUR 2 million, a huge figure. We of the 5 Star Movement want to express satisfaction for the valuable work carried out by the Finance Guard, especially the operating core of Scicli, inviting the whole body not to give up and continue in this investigation action, which will probably have other phases. We also want to congratulate local administrators and their lawyers on their tenacity, who have believed in this long and difficult battle and have won it. We reaffirm our commitment to ensure that the Government does not change the cards on the table yet and does not do yet another favor to the oilmakers, as it is already trying to do: the platforms, today and always, will have to pay just like any other entrepreneur, small craftsman or farmer, who every year pays the IMU to its municipality. No unjustified privileges for oilmen. [[Applause from Senator Donno.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u57	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-697.ana.u58	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 12 October, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.09 p.m.
