ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 14 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u8	I communicate that on 15 July 2016 the three months provided for in the second paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution have passed in respect of the three requests for referendums made pursuant to Articles 4 and 6 of the Law of 25 May 1970, n. 352, by Senator Luis Alberto Orellana, of which it was announced at the session of the Assembly of 12 July 2016. For each of the above requests a quorum of one fifth of the members of the Senate, corresponding to sixty-five signatures, was not reached for the deposit of the same at the Registry of the Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u11	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I will be very quick; I would like to speak on the order of business. Unfortunately, I was not in the Chamber yesterday, because I was defending the citizens from the rapacity of companies in the third pass and the mafia and the 'ndrangheta', but I simply wanted to express my disgust at how you handled the crime of torture. You suck!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u12	Senator Airola, yours is not an intervention on the order of business. AIROLA (M5S). You guys really suck! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's one of your comments, so I'll take your word for it. We do not come here in the morning to comment on the previous day's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u13	The next item is the resolution on the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic in a conflict of attribution promoted against the Chamber of Deputies by the ordinary court of Rome, Section II of the Constitutional Court Order No 91 of 2016. By order No 91 of 23 March 2016, filed at the Registry on 22 April 2016 and notified to the Senate of the Republic on 13 June 2016, the Constitutional Court declared admissible the conflict of attribution promoted against the Chamber of Deputies by the ordinary court of Rome, Section II, with the order-recourse lodged at the Registry of the Constitutional Court on 18 December 2015. The Senate Presidency Council, at its meeting on 28 June 2016, resolved to propose to the Assembly of the Senate of the Republic the constitution in court in the above-mentioned attribution conflict. One speaker per group may speak on the proposal from the Presidency Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u16	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I was the only one in the Presidency Council who voted against this issue and I would like to explain why I voted against it. As you know, 175 employees of the Chamber of Deputies have addressed the ordinary court of Rome. We in this House have never talked about self-declaration, we continue to hide our heads in the sand, but we have a huge problem because the self-declaration that we apply in these rooms includes whatever area both the administration and the legislative self-declaration. Today, we must increasingly equate ourselves with the outside world and therefore give employees the opportunity to turn to the ordinary court for their rights to be recognized. We here have domestic justice, which is made up of the employees themselves and the political bodies, which in my opinion will never be as impartial as an ordinary judge. So our vote will be against. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u19	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I understand that we can debate with a view to changing the rules, we are changing rules of all kinds, even of constitutional importance, but today we have to discuss the possibility that the Senate, and therefore Parliament as a whole, should be put in court to defend a principle that is fundamental in the current system. I therefore believe that this should not be demagogyd, but that it should be noted in the meantime that the Court of Rome had the opportunity to act in that forum and to assert a principle, which was legitimate as the decision of the Constitutional Court is legitimate, and indeed absolutely acceptable. But we, here, operate in another capacity, we are senators of the Republic and we represent the institution of the Senate, which includes not only the senators themselves but all the system that revolves around them, including the employees who entered the Senate of the Republic with a regular competition knowing that the rules are different, even from the point of view of justice, from the ordinary ones. So we're in front of this system. Moreover, there are bodies that we ourselves represent in this context and there are colleagues who deal with this. So I say that today we have to come to judgment as proposed by the Presidency Council and everything else will be considered in perspective, that I would not really agree with it, but in any case in the future. Talking today about changing the rules with a vote of this kind is just a demagogic act. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u22	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I believe, and I also say this to my colleague Mr Lo Moro, that we cannot go on just by tradition. Even in this parliamentary term, as in the past, there have been events, issues and decisions which, in my opinion and since you are so reformist, deserve further consideration from this House and perhaps also from the relevant Commissions (I am thinking of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs). These are issues, issues and prerogatives that until some time ago, rightly, were not only absolutely linked to practice but had, let's say, a greater constitutional substance. We are now, in my opinion, at a time when, above all, the question of the relationship between employees and administration, both of the House and of the Senate, deserves a more in-depth discussion. I do not know exactly whether this issue has been brought to the Presidency Council without further discussion, but this probably has happened. In addition, I would like to stress that the formation of a court by the Senate in the conflict of attribution, especially as regards the issue of the judicial protection of employees, undergoes very different treatment. Here we have had cases that have obviously never come to be considered worthy of protection - in time this has happened - and for which there has been recourse to the ordinary court. At present, there are a number of causes - the Presidency or at least the Presidency should be informed - for employees, precisely with regard to Group Presidents and other bodies, and there has been no discussion nor has anyone raised any conflicts of attribution. I say this because we must absolutely avoid this distinction: either we do a general survey on the whole issue and whether or not we continue to pursue the practice that has been adopted so far, or we are faced with a situation which sees a very diverse application of the rules themselves. Therefore, for all these reasons, we believe - in this case, among other things, these are issues relating to the protection of employees' rights - that ours can only be a vote of abstention, precisely because today it is absolutely necessary not to proceed as in the past and as has always been done in practice, but we need a much more complex debate, all the more so - I stress - that there are very different behaviors in place here. At present there are already many cases, even before the second section of Rome's work, and I do not think that the Senate felt the need to establish itself or to raise a conflict of attribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u23	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal approved by the Presidency Council. If approved, the Presidency will be deemed authorized to give a mandate, for the constitution and representation in court of the Senate, to the General Commission of the State. I put to the vote the proposal approved by the Presidency Council. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u24	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings (No 1780/12 RGNR - No 121/15 RGT) against Mr Giuseppe Ciarrapico, senator at the time of the facts, transmitted by the Court of Campobasso. The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I recall that the Junta unanimously proposed to the Assembly that the statements made by Mr Giuseppe Ciarrapico, Senator at the time of the events, constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the working rapporteur, Senator Stefano, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u25	, f.f. Mr President, first of all, you have pointed out that the rapporteur in Giunta was Senator Crimi, who is absent today, so I am replacing him. As you said, President, this is an accusatory hypothesis relating to an article - entitled "L'onore dell'Italia ai parà assassinati" - in which the honour and prestige of the President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano would have been offended, suggesting that the latter had delayed the institutional commitment relating to the reception of the bodies of Italian Paràs who died in Kabul in 2009 to complete the program of his visit to Japan with futile appointments, seasoned by convivial occasions and musical shows. For a whole series of reasons that concern the practice, but also the specificity of this accusatory hypothesis, the Junta, at the opinion and at the request of Senator Crimes, has expressed itself unanimously in the sense of deciding that the statements made by Giuseppe Ciarrapico, Senator at the time of the events, constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the exercise of its functions, and therefore fall under the hypothesis of article 68, first paragraph, of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u26	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u27	, f.f. I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u29	STEFANO, f.f. rapporteur. Mr President, I am speaking only because it remains to the record that I - as always - will not participate in the votes in this House in order to be consistent with the behaviour of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u32	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, in connection with this resolution, the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of the adoption of the proposal of the Junta for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u35	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u36	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pending the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.53 p.m. and resumed at 10.03.) I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the statements made by Mr Giuseppe Ciarrapico, Senator at the time of the events, constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u37	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for authorization for the use of telephone conversations of Senator Antonio Milo, deputy at the time of the events, in the context of criminal proceedings pending against him (No 51253/2013 RGNR - No 5472/2014 RG GIP), transmitted by the judge for preliminary investigations at the Naples Court of Justice (No 51253/2013 RGNR - No 5472/2014 RG GIP). The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council has unanimously decided to propose to the Assembly the authorization to use Senator Antonio Milo's wiretapping of telephone conversations. The rapporteur, Senator Buemi, is not present at the moment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u40	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Mr President, Senator Buemi telephoned me and told me that he is returning from a mission, that he will be in the Chamber in 15 minutes and that we would like to carry out the report personally. I am clearly referring to your decisions, Mr President, admitting that I am not prepared, as you should, to replace it in the report. In case you decide to proceed anyway, I can only say that I am replacing him and that I will return to the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u41	I do not intend to change the order of business. So if Senator Buemi has informed you that he is coming, I can suspend the session or you will be courteous enough to do the report and replace it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u42	Mr President, Senator Buemi called me 15 minutes ago to say he left the airport. After that, the report is drafted in writing and is in the proceedings. I therefore turn to that report. The proposal adopted unanimously by the Council, as you have rightly pointed out, is for the granting of the authorization and, therefore, for the granting of the authorization.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u43	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Milo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u44	Mr President, I am simply speaking to retrace the chronology of the facts of this affair, paradoxical to say the least, which sees me involved. All this starts from a request from the Public Prosecutor of Naples of 4 February 2014 to the Presidency of the Senate, and therefore to this Assembly, to authorize the use of the telephone records of my users from 4 February 2012, i.e. for the previous two years. Mr President, I would like you to listen carefully to me. As I said, this request was made on 4 February and the proceedings of the investigation already had a request made by the prosecutor to all telephone operators, dated 16 January 2014. In other words, even before making the request to you, Mr President, and therefore to this House, the Naples Public Prosecutor had already forwarded it to all telephone operators. Not content with this, on March 4th - this is a note that I can then deliver - the same prosecutor urgently requested the delivery of the records. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities expresses itself and the document arrives at the Assembly on 1 July 2014. The Assembly therefore authorizes the use of telephone records to verify whether, over time, I had been in that physiotherapy center. A few months ago, we found out I wasn't in the investigation log. Mr President, I would like to say to you that before you represented this House, you were one of the most important magistrates in our country, and I have also requested a copy of model 21 in accordance with it and, to date, I am not even included in the register of crime reports. I am a member of the SICP system, but I do not want to formalise myself on this point either. As for the examination of today's Junta, the intercepts requested by the proxy are even prior to the request of the phone records. The five interceptions - they are also useful to me, because they show things definitely in my favor - date back to September-October 2013, period of the entire year in which I have never had refunds of invoices. Although I have paid for those treatments, the person in this Member has never done them to me and, therefore, I have not been able to present the invoices to get the refund. As I said in the preamble, it is a Kafkian and paradoxical story, because - moreover - we find ourselves talking about it here... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u45	Senator Milo, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'd like your speech to have the proper respect and listening from the senators, who I invite to contain the voice of the background.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u46	Please, Senator Milo. Mr Milo (AL-A). Thank you, Mr President. This is the state of the art. Today, the Assembly is examining the report by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the request for authorization to use telephone interceptions. This is a very emblematic fact. I do not know if colleagues, whom I respect and respect all, have read the story of the facts. Senator Pagliari, who was the rapporteur of the previous document, said that phone records are not against Senator Milo, as he could also be in his favor. I wonder, then, if the Junta asked for these records to verify if I had actually been in that center and - I add - that, if I had been a member of the Junta, I would have made such a request. My lawyer told me that, in the face of ten treatments billed at that time, I've been to the physiotherapy center 16 times. If that was the proof, I would like to understand the spirit that led the Members of the Junta to proceed with the application for authorisation. Mr President, I appeal to you. I do not know what will be done in this House. But if they go in one direction, I would ask you, very quietly, to try at least to restore institutional loyalty between the judiciary and Parliament, because it is not conceivable that a magistrate could make requests to a parliamentary Chamber without an investigation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u47	Mr President, Senator Milo spoke with a very inconvenient buzz from the House. When it comes to a matter such as this, I believe that colleagues should listen carefully, not least because they will soon have to vote. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that you will remember that the request for authorisation of the use of telephone interceptions by Senator Milo, which we are called upon to deal with today, finds a precise logical and legal background in the previous request, by the same judicial office and in relation to the same facts, for the authorisation of the acquisition and subsequent use of information relating to the positioning of its mobile users, as they are taken from the telephone traffic records. The rapporteur, Mr Buemi, has missed this particular fact, this fact, this logical background. I understand that Senator Buemi has escaped, but I would be very surprised if he also escaped the senators in this House and - please allow me, Mr President - to you in particular. At the previous request, even though - in my opinion - excessive and ineffective - I said already, on that occasion - regarding the investigative purposes pursued, consent was given and effective course from this assembly. Facts that emerged later proved, however, that our decision was wrong, though not by conscious and voluntary choice of senators. The Senate, in fact, on that occasion could not know - as in fact did not even the direct interested person, Senator Milo - the existence, in the ongoing procedure against the same, of serious anomalies suitable to compromise the same procedural usability of the acts subject to the previous authorization and the one related today. Senator Milo, in fact, in the exercise of his rights not already as a senator - beware - but as a citizen investigated, has asked for information on his condition and the times and ways in which it was formalized, until he received, not without having had to overcome obstacles and melines on the part of the gip, the disconcerting information of having been recorded - it is here, Mr President, that I ask his attention - in the so-called SICP (acronym of Information System of criminal cognition), and therefore not in model 21 - but this does not change - only after the previous request for authorization - be careful, already evaluated and decided by this assembly in a favourable way to the request of the judicial authority - was forwarded to the competent branch of Parliament. In essence, first we are asked to use telephone traffic and then, only after many months, it is registered (not already in model 21, but in the SICP) Senator Milo as investigated. This means that, when this request came, Senator Milo was not at all investigated, judging by the certificates of the Naples gip, and we are told by the Naples gip and, paradoxically, also Senator Buemi in his report, in which - by chance - he overlooks this fact; a very important fact, a fact that relates to the relations between Parliament and the judiciary, between two powers of the State. It flies over and lets it slide from the pen. Judging from the certificates of the Naples gip, it would seem that an authorization was required to carry out an investigation specifically addressed to a Member of Parliament, without having been registered, for those offences for which authorisation was sought, in the register of news of crime. Such a lack, Mr President, cannot be trivialized, because it inevitably means that it is impossible to verify and monitor compliance with the time limits for preliminary investigations by the investigating court. This, Mr President, is a very serious omission, which cannot but be assessed in order to judge overall the judicial initiatives in progress against Senator Milo. Know, ladies and gentlemen, that the issue of the verification of the time limits for registration in the general register is glowing and forced the Supreme Court, in the presence of conflicting guidelines, to intervene in united sections in order to reaffirm, in judgment 40538 of 2009 of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation, that the registration remains an act of exclusive competence of the prosecutor and that it is not allowed the judge to establish a different date, without prejudice, however, to any profiles of disciplinary responsibility or, even, penalty of the magistrate who delayed the registration. Beyond technicalism, I would like to recall a step in this judgment in which the judges of legitimacy show that they understand well the stakes. They write that: It should only be noted, if anything, how, in the light of the number of orders of dismissal (...), the problem of the possible "arbitrariness" of the prosecutor has been and is still acutely felt even in daily practice. Once again, the issue is not whether or not a Member can be intercepted. On the other hand, it is a question of whether compliance with the procedures should also apply in this case and whether compliance with the rules with the judiciary and the prosecutor is effectively enforceable. We don't know if the omission was due to an oversight of the prosecutor. I also want to imagine a mistake in his voicemail, a computer accident or a miscertification of the gip. But what is unacceptable is that the Senate can - as in fact it has already done once - pretend nothing, turning its head and refusing to ascertain how this could happen and, if necessary, the responsibilities. I would like the President of the Junta for Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to pay attention to me and, therefore, I turn directly to President Stefano to give him a modest advice that as a lawyer, even before I am a senator, I feel I am addressing him and the whole Junta for Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. I refer to elementary checks: is the Member included in the register of suspects? Since when is he registered? For what crimes? Well, these questions must be anticipated at the stage of the investigation of the report, in order to allow the senators in the Assembly not to make any other mistakes, such as those already suffered by Senator Milo. From this point of view, Mr President, I welcome the work of the House Council, which a few days ago called for the rejection of a similar request made by the judicial office itself. Please note: the same judicial office makes a request to the Chamber concerning a Member who was not entered in the register of suspects. Well, the House of Deputies has rejected the request and, for this reason, I welcome the wisdom of its work. I believe that very few in this House will remember how it was enough for the magistrate Carlo Palermo - it is a fact that you, Mr President, will remember - only to have mentioned the name of Bettino Craxi in a decree of search intended for other subjects to be sanctioned by the Supreme Council of the judiciary and then to be transferred to Trapani, where he continued his activity also suffering an attack. It was 1984 and so much water has passed since then under the bridges. Without regretting those times and having in the utmost regard the values of autonomy and independence of the judiciary, it comes to say that between one extreme and the other (an uninvestigated recipient of an authorization to acquire the records of his telephone traffic) there is and there must be a different point of balance. In particular, the obbuse of the granting of authorisations for the use of acts which already present clear profiles of common illegality or unusability or which can be found regardless of the candidate's status as a Member of Parliament, and certainly symptomatic of an investigative activity carried out at least superficially, must be avoided. I therefore feel the duty, as a citizen, as a lawyer and as a senator of the Republic to ask all of you for a strong vote against the authorisation requested from the Bureau and this House. I address an invitation to a firm (paced yes, but firm) deepening the story, which relates - as Senator Milo said - to the relations between the institutions, to the relationship of loyalty that must exist between two powers of the State. You, Mr President, need to look into this. It is not conceivable that we can still imagine for the future that the Senate or the Parliament in general will be given permission to carry out investigative acts involving a senator or a Member if they are not entered in the register of suspects. You, Mr President, have the burden, the constitutional duty. I'm not defending Senator Milo, whose friend I am. My speech does not go in this direction: my speech goes in the direction of protecting the body of which I belong, the Senate of the Republic. I then address you, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, because you too have a duty to ensure that our Senate, our body, is respected by everyone and, in particular, by the members of other bodies and powers of the State, in particular the judiciary. You, Mr President, must therefore - in my opinion - return the acts to the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I don't know Dr. Woodcock personally, but I hear him talking like a hard worker who's already in the DA at 7:00 a.m. and I'll always thank him for that. But certain errors of an office, which may not be Woodcock's, but a stationery or others', must be observed, regulated and corrected. And you, Mr President, have this duty - I represent only a fraction of the power of the Senate - because you have the responsibility to protect all of us, all of this body and it is therefore to you that I address a firm but calm invitation. To all of you, colleagues, I say: think about it, just in a moment, when you vote. You are about to vote on a measure that is closely linked to a precedent that, unloyally, was asked of us and that we, in perfect good faith, gave on the assumption - obviously honest and logical - that Senator Milo was being investigated. We made such a mistake, Senator Buemi. Next time, when you report on such facts, pay attention to the dates and to what is relevant, and do not allow yourself to go to the copying of judgments of the Court that pertain to much more than the central problem of the matter. I shall therefore conclude by calling on everyone to vote against the authorisation to proceed in the investigation to our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u49	Mr President, I shall be very brief. Fortunately, the rapporteur, Senator Buemi, has joined us. In view of the statements made by the person concerned, namely that the request was made at a time when it was not entered in the register of suspects - which was confirmed by Senator Falanga - I believe it is in the interest of everything that the Ombudsman knows whether such a statement was assessed by the Junta and why an opinion was issued unanimously, i.e. whether it was made in the light of the knowledge of that data or whether it was, of course, ignored for the reasons which the rapporteur, Senator Buemi, will explain to us. My speech would have been on the order of business and, before Senator Buemi appeared in the Chamber, I would have asked for a suspension of the sitting. Now that the rapporteur is here, I think it is in everyone's interest to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u50	Senator Tarquinio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u51	Mr President, I fully agree with what Senator Quagliariello has said. Beyond everything, this story has incredible for how it has taken place and continues to unfold. I take for granted the good faith of the members of the Assembly of the elections and parliamentary immunities for the permissions to proceed. I cannot, however, imagine that they made a unanimous verdict without ignoring the fact that Senator Milo was not investigated. I can't believe they're asking for permission, already granted, on an uninvestigated man. The problem is serious and often underestimated. This House continues to underestimate serious issues. Yesterday he underestimated the problem when he talked about the massacre in Nice and continues to underestimate the current issue, ignoring that people and their lives are at stake and imagining that they are all guilty, all murderers and thieves. It's not like that. Moreover, in this case there is a further aggravating factor. Nothing the House had to pay: no scam was committed, because invoices were never delivered. In fact, from the same interceptions - to what I understand - is certified the presence of Senator Milo at the physiotherapy center: this is the real fact. This is an incredible fact, which certainly needs to be examined. Senator Milo's case should be examined as all the others should be examined later. Let's not assume someone's always wrong. A lot of people make mistakes in politics, as parliamentarians, as regional advisers, as mayors and so on. But certainly a lot of other people are not wrong. So, considering everyone guilty anyway has some incredible. Honestly - President, I say this to the House more than to you, unlike Senator Falanga - does everything that has happened to Senator Milo seem normal to you without being in the register of suspects at all? Can any magistrate, cop or police officer ask for documents and investigate a person without this being investigated? I can decide to prosecute - for example - Senator Bonfrisco for my own business, beyond any rule and law. This has something incredible and so many of you, even at this moment, pretend you don't feel, because there is a vice and there is fear: you don't attack who can possibly hurt. That's the real thing. We believe in the judiciary and we certainly need it, but it is not possible that there is an eternal confrontation between a totally kissed part and a totally healthy part. In this case there has been a mistake and it is serious and must certainly be pursued, as Senator Quagliariello said. We'll hear Senator Buemi understand why the vote was unanimous or if the members of the Junta were ignoring something. Then it will be up to all of us to decide, in perfect good faith, beyond the political parties, sympathy and antipathy. Let us remember that we are, at the end of the day, all human beings. We try to get out of the stereotypes of majority and minority, of ideologies - some of which are often surpassed - within which we still feel the legacy of past times. We try to overcome all this seriously and to demonstrate, beyond the sympathies and dislikes, the personal convictions that in this case the facts say that you cannot grant permission, because it is lazy at the base. Therefore, in total serenity and in total autonomy, as must happen in this Senate, autonomous from everything that happens outside, we must reject the request for use of telephone records. I believe it is our duty first as men and then as representatives of the Senate. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u52	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u53	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u54	I apologise to my colleagues and the presidency for the delay, unfortunately not due to me, but to problems of air delay and traffic.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u55	We were counting on the reply to give you a chance to recover your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u56	Mr Buemi, rapporteur. Mr President, the issue set out in the report has been put with responsibility and with particular attention to the constitutional principles and safeguards that must necessarily be guaranteed first of all to the member of this House, but also taking into account the need to carry out those necessary investigative acts in all the trials in order to ascertain the responsibilities, if any, as is evident. First of all, I would like to reply to Mr Falanga. I do not believe that I should be called to positions of guarantee, because all its parliamentary history, and not only, is based on principles of absolute guarantee. At the same time, however, I have to say quite frankly that two critical issues have emerged in this procedure. The first problem is that perhaps there is a need for protection on the part of my colleague, because - at least from what has been transmitted, in terms of knowledge, to myself and to the Council - the responsibilities must be established, but they do not emerge in judicial acts. But this is not primarily our task. Our task is to point out whether there are any problems and issues that would lead to a ban on the use of interceptions. On the temporal difference between interception and registration in the register of suspects it is evident that, in the first phase, it was an interception intended for other subjects not covered by the constitutional guarantees and, therefore, there was no such necessity. At the time when a problem arose, the issuing authority requested authorisation. The report has been drawn up in this respect and has been unanimously approved by the Council. When this report comes to the House through the rapporteur's voice, the rapporteur cannot depart from it. He submitted to his colleagues in the House the evaluation of the report itself, but having the duty (I personally believe I hear it) to inform the senators that, unfortunately - I also say this to the President of the Senate, because I have spoken repeatedly on this point in Giunta, but there are other cases - there are temporal forcings between the moment when the subject covered by the constitutional guarantees is intercepted, albeit indirectly, and the time when the procedure provided for in the articles providing for the coverage of our activity is activated. FALANGA (AL-A). Buemi, that's another thing! Mr Buemi, rapporteur. This is a more general problem, which would need a more precise attention from the proceeding judicial authority. I firmly believe that the state has an obligation to prosecute those who are held to be responsible and must ensure that they are held responsible by strict compliance with the rules we have written in our Constitution and our subordinate system. Mr President, this is not always the case, and there are many cases. Here too, my personal doubt - certainly then solved by the Junta's opinion - was that, in the face of the forcings, there was a need for further development. In this respect, I am obliged to confirm the opinion of the Junta, but I would ask the House for a final decision on the matter. This seems to me to be a critical element of a general nature, not specific, on which Parliamentary assemblies should reflect and possibly take initiatives to clarify the rules of conduct of the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u57	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal of the European Parliamentary Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u60	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, as you know, the 5 Star Movement has always had a very clear position on what are defined as parliamentary immunity, namely the provision that, before it is possible to arrange searches or interceptions or personal protective measures, the judiciary should request prior authorisation from the branch of Parliament to belong to the Member concerned. Our position has always been - as we have also done in the amending phase on constitutional reforms and elsewhere - to ensure that those who are considered and perceived as privileges (but even if they do not have to be considered) must disappear, they must no longer be recognized. This is not because we want to put the Member of Parliament, and his freedom in the exercise of his elective mandate, in a position to put in place any political action without interference by anyone, not even another power of the State, but because the news of this Parliament tells us a different story, which is what - in my view - we have heard in this House today. It tells us, that is, a story through which one wants to shield those principles in order to escape a personal responsibility, which can also be of a criminal nature, which interests any citizen. Having listened to a number of speeches in general debate, it seems that there is essentially a supposed non-interceptibility of Members. The reasons - for example - that Senator Falanga raised regarding the timeliness of the registration on the register of suspects - in this case Senator Milo - are well known to the members of the Junta, and also to the Members of the Assembly, only if they had the patience and the interest of reading the proposal resigned by the Junta itself. In this case we are talking about five telephone conversations between the users of Mr. Alì Rashid and Senator Milo; intercepts arranged in the context of investigations for the associative crime of aggravated fraud, we then know against the National Health Service. Those interceptions were clearly due if arranged and authorized by the gip; while in those conversations, the same Senator Milo also happens among the many interlocutors of Mr Rashid Ali. Of course, Senator Milo was correctly, legitimately, regularly inscribed in the register of suspects after these interceptions of a evidently random nature. So I wonder what we're talking about. Those who want to support unusability, namely the need for us to deny the judiciary the use of these sources of proof, cannot in my eyes justify this opinion here. But - it should be remembered - it will not be able to do so even outside this House, to the citizens, because once again we want to shield ourselves from a measure that in abstract might also be understandable, but that today is not, all the more so with the emergencies of the state, the moral and civil quality of our country, as we can now see more than every day. Every twelve hours, in fact, we have news of new scandals, of new arrests, of new contiguities of substantial parts of the political world with environments of the evil that - even when they are not mafia as in this case - still represent the cancer of corruption that is consuming us in our consciences, in our awareness of being Italian before at the level of courtrooms. The report itself confirms the fact that there is obviously no fumus persecutionis, which is in no way traceable of a persecutory will, because otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, we should support - indeed, that is what you are saying - that those who are committing crimes or those who want to commit them can safely talk to any Member of Parliament in the certainty that those telephone conversations can never be used. Do you want to support this? Do you want to induce the underworld, the corrupt, the mobsters, who wants to continue to dust this country, to tell the senator or the congressman to phone, because so much in Junta and in the Chamber those interceptions will never be authorized? This is true even if there is no investigative direction, i.e. if we do not investigate the parliamentarians: in this case we are talking about random, fortuitous interceptions. Do you want to support this? In this, as in all other cases where there is talk of requests for posthumous or preventive authorisations, searches, the use of telephone interceptions and the application of precautionary measures, the vote of the 5 Star Movement is in favour of granting the judiciary the means to shed light and proceed, without prejudice to the sacrosanct right of defence in the competent judicial bodies, so that it may try (if it can be done) its own extraneousness and innocence. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u63	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, the formula put forward by the Presidency with regard to the decision taken by the Junta is correct, in the sense that she said that the Junta unanimously approved Senator Buemi's proposal. But the correctness of the sentence does not detect the number and the names of those present. At that meeting I was not present, being engaged in other institutional task (I was at the Conference of the Leaders). And if I had been present, I would have voted against Senator Buemi's report, and not for the reasons set out in the speeches made by my most illustrious colleagues. As you know, constitutional jurisprudence in relation to decisions taken for permissions to proceed refers to two substantive reasons or focal points: the date of registration (then the fact that interceptions should be random and not causal) and the fumus persecutionis. With regard to the first of the focal points, Senator Buemi and the Junta are right: the direction of inquiry was realized after the interceptions, so the one to which reference is made is not a given that can be taken into consideration by the Junta, because it concerns the work of a magistrate and we are not called to judge the work of the magistrate, but to note, according to constitutional jurisprudence, if that work takes into account the respect of those two points referred to in constitutional jurisprudence. In terms of fumus persecutionis, many well know that the doctrine refers to three identifications: type A, type B and type C. Allow me to make a joke that is perhaps disrespectful: in this case it seems to me that it is Fumus Persecutionis type D, as "deputees" because the action of those magistrates seems more directed towards persecution of Members and senators than anything else. I come to explain the forcing of my statement. This is the second of the clearances we're handling against Senator Milo. The first was requested to be able to prove, through questions addressed to Telecom, Vodafone or to whom Senator Milo had signed the contract of telephone users, if it was true that Senator Milo was in that clinic to undergo the treatment he had requested for reimbursement. This House allowed permission - even then with my vote against - after which the magistrates realized that, contrary to what they wanted to prove, Senator Milo was actually in that surgery. Normally, since Senator Milo had been established and there was an invoice attesting to the performance, he could very well have closed the investigation. No, you don't. At this point, at a later stage, since the sycumera with which the judiciary had investigated had been frustrated by the obvious evidence of the senator's presence in the clinic, permission was requested for the use of five random interceptions. We have read the interceptions in which nothing is contained, Mr President and colleagues. Senator Milo talks to the owner of the company and says: I mean, you want to bill me? I came there, I got the performance, why don't you bill me? "Yes, come, I'm preparing it." This is the tone of the five interceptions, so the authorization, in my opinion, has a persecutory substance: that of wanting to submit Senator Milo, again and constantly, to the media for having cheated - if it is a fraud - not the National Health Service as Senator Buccarella had said and as the reporters have reported, but the Health Service of the Chamber of Deputies to whom he presented the invoice. Again, there is a persecution, because there is no crime detectable in that prosecution: in this case, with a broad and doctrinal discussion on self-dedication, it should be the Chamber of Deputies that file a complaint to defend itself from the senator's attempt to con. So, at this point, in my view, there is a clear persecution and for this reason I shall vote against the resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u66	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, our Group will also vote against the adoption by the House of this report, precisely because of the arguments which Senator Buemi himself gave us in his reply. The rapporteur, referring to a general question, I would say institutional, said that the succession of the times, that is, the chronology of the matter is indeed improper, no less than - I summarize it, if you will allow me, because he was not there - Mr Milo had started to say with Anglo-Saxon elegance this morning, quoting, I think, Kafka. On the part of a well-tested guarantor such as my colleague and, if I may say so, my friend Buemi, the Assembly has had direct testimony of how in this case the Junta, in its plenum, could have helped the rapporteur to point out, already in the report, this discrepancy, on which then, as hot as it suits his passion and his professionalism forensics, friend Falanga deepened his speech. Let's forget the very effective evocation of Senator Falanga of the mid-1980s, when Carlo Palermo was misled by the improper quote of a parliamentarians in an act that did not concern that parliamentarians. Mr Falanga's argument that I was particularly convinced was the appropriate textual citation - not evocation - of a decision of the Constitutional Court on the subject of Parliament, interceptions and requests of the prosecutor. To a fiery and trained lawyer like Senator Falanga it has not escaped that the Constitutional Court has spoken of referees of the prosecutor who can sometimes originate. With the esteem and attention with which I have listened - but not shared - to his arguments, I therefore ask Mr Buccarella: but then, the concern not to allow the public to believe that no Member is shielded from these occasions, allows the judicial proceeding to make itself a shield of our vote other than that of my Group in order to heal the really unpleasant question of his way and, above all, as my friend Buemi has pointed out, of his time in proceeding? That is why Senator Buccarella's considerations cannot convince me, because, as he himself said with great intellectual honesty, his Group - no matter what, Prince de Curtis would have said - always votes in the same way on this matter. Maybe, I confess that no matter what I vote otherwise. However, as Mr Falanga reminded me, I was present in this House between 1992 and 1994 and when Mr Falanga asked for the Supreme Council of the judiciary to be informed of conduct that could be censored in the manner and timing, according to what Mr Buemi said, in the procedure, he asked for something that has been done many times and if Senator Stefano does not believe me, in addition to looking at the acts, he can ask his predecessor, Senator Pellegrino. To me the request of Senator Falanga did not seem inappropriate, nor incestuous, but at the moment it seems to me priority a vote in the same sense as that announced by Senator Mario Ferrara from within the Junta. This is not to criticize Mr Buemi's report, but rather to realize that our procedure, thanks to the debate and the report, has managed to perceive a privilege, on the part of those who have mistaken ways and times of the procedure, that a vote such as that of Senator Buccarella would allow, with the - noble for him, less noble for me - motivation not to create instead a privilege for Senator Milo, who this morning, with an Anglo-Saxon spirit, did not evoke his privilege as a Member of Parliament, but simply made us aware of times that had offended his rights as a citizen. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u67	I say that a request for a secret ballot is prevented. Pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore refer to the secret ballot vote on the proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to grant authorization to use the interceptions of telephone conversations by Senator Antonio Milo, who was a Member at the time of the events, with reference to document IV, No 12. (The vote was followed). I ask the Secretary Senators to check whether there are cards abandoned in the various schools and colleagues to cooperate by removing the cards from the housing and indicating to the Secretaries any situations belonging to senators not present in the Chamber to be verified. [[Senator Buccarella points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Buccarella, if you wish to point out any situations of incorrect voting, I invite you to contact the Secretary Senators, who are doing the necessary checks. If you are asking for the floor for other reasons, please wait until the voting is closed because we are already in the vote. Senator Petraglia is activating, as Secretary of Assembly, to remove a card that has remained in its place. If the senators take their seats and sit, we can better identify the cards that have remained in place without the corresponding senator's presence. The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u70	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Mr President, I would like to reiterate that I did not take part in the vote and I will not do so at the next similar votes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We have already noted this, Senator Stephen.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u71	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for authorization to use telephone conversations of Dr Silvio Berlusconi, a Member of Parliament at the time of the events, in the context of criminal proceedings pending against him (No 2934/2014 RGNR - No 6862/2014 RG GIP), transmitted by the judge for preliminary investigations at the Milan Court. The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that at its meeting on 26 April 2016, the Council rejected by a majority the proposal by the rapporteur, Mr Buemi, to deny authorization for all interceptions. Following this rejection, in accordance with established practice, the proposal was subsequently accepted to the Assembly to grant authorization to use the interceptions of all telephone conversations of Dr Silvio Berlusconi subject to the request of the judicial authority, i.e. the phone calls of: a) 12 April 2012 (identified by the "progressive" 478); (b) 16 April 2012 (identified by "progressive" 241); (c) 20 April 2012 (identified as "progressive" 863); (d) 21 April 2012 (identified by "progressive" 271); (e) 15 May 2012 (identified by "progressive" 2220); (f) 22 June 2012 (identified by "progressive" 3123); g) 9 July 2012 (identified by "progressive" 3999); h) 31 July 2012 (identified by "progressive" 5704); (i) 1 August 2012 (identified by "progressive" 5752); (l) 27 August 2012 (identified by "progressive" 921); m) 27 August 2012 (identified by "progressive" 922). I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stefano, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u72	Mr President, I would also like to refer here to the written report submitted to the House, but not without having briefly referred to the subject of the request on which this House is called to speak today. The request, as you have well specified, has as its object eleven telephone conversations picked up between 12 April 2012 and 27 August 2012, in the context of a criminal proceeding against other subjects for the crime of scam aggravated to the damages of public body and environmental crimes. Among the above conversations, nine were intercepted on utilities in use at Barbara Guerra and two were taken from a user in use at Iris Berardi. The gip reported that, within the framework of the proceeding n. 27883/11, in which Silvio Berlusconi was not investigated, telephone interceptions were arranged that have identified, among the most frequent interlocutors of the investigation of that procedure, also such Magnano Francesco Calogero, who had, among others, numerous telephone conversations with Barbara Guerra and Iris Berardi, known attendees of the festivals in Arcore for their involvement in the trials borne by Silvio Berlusconi, Emilio Fede, Nicole Minetti and Dario Mora. The gip found that, from the tenor of the phone calls, it emerged that the Magnano was engaged in search of properties to be allocated to the aforementioned Barbara Guerra and Iris Berardi. The role of witnesses of the latter and the figure of the Magnano as a man of trust of Berlusconi has imposed a deepening of the object of the telephone calls, in order to ascertain if the contextuality of the real estate negotiations could be put in relation to the processes cited at the expense of Silvio Berlusconi, what were the purposes or if there were corrupting purposes. The judge for preliminary investigations pointed out that the judicial authority did not warn of the need-opportunity to make a request for prior authorization to the direct interceptions on the users in use to the President of the Council, since the act of investigation was not intended to access the sphere of communications of the same, but to enter the sphere of communication of the intercepted and witnesses in the ongoing trial against Berlusconi more others. Further confirmation of the accidentality of the communications, it has been found that most of the attempts of the girls to contact Berlusconi were "empty" and that, over those eight months, in the face of almost 400 attempts of contact, the investigated War and Berardi have managed to speak with the then parliamentary only 29 times. In terms of relevance, the judge for the preliminary investigations reported that of the few conversations obtained by the two women, the majority appeared completely irrelevant, outside the subject matter of the same facts being investigated; others appeared relevant following the reopening of the investigations following the transmission of the documents to the prosecutor by the Milan court to the outcome of the judgment. In particular - observes the judge for the preliminary investigations - it has emerged as between April and August 2012, in the full conduct of the preparatory investigation relative to the above mentioned trials - some telephone calls have been intercepted during which, to the pressing requests from the girls of fulfillment of the obligations of daction of what promised, Silvio Berlusconi subordinated the agreed dates to the procedural attitude that would hold the two witnesses investigated, at the time constituted civil parts towards him. Senator Buemi, succeeded rapporteur in Junta to a first proposal denied for the partial authorization of the captures, proposed to reject the request of the judicial authority for all 11 phone calls picked up on the two users of the Berardi and the War, because from the beginning the real direction of the investigations would have been in the sense of picking up telephone communications from Senator Berlusconi and would not have been accidental or fortuitous interceptions. Faced with the proposal of the rapporteur, Mr Buemi, at its meeting on 26 April 2016, the Giunta expressed itself in the opposite direction by a majority, thus rejecting the proposal to deny the authorisation for all interceptions. As a result of this rejection, as you, Mr President, well specified at the outset, in accordance with established practice, the proposal was subsequently accepted to the Assembly to grant authorization to use the interceptions of all telephone conversations of Dr Silvio Berlusconi subject to the request of the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u75	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business to ask you to remedy an original sin, for which not all the groups are present in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. It is Kafkian that while there were 140 votes in favour, 115 against and 7 abstentions in the previous vote in this House, we saw that the Junta had decided unanimously, which shows that it lacks a balance and that there is a predominant component of the criminal rage. We are asking you officially to rebalance it, because it is your duty to ensure that all the Groups are present in that Junta, just as all the Groups must be present in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Bureau. I do not know how he will proceed, but this original sin needs a baptism so that the Junta is brought back to balance, as the Assembly itself, with the vote before, asked for it. We cannot come to this House and hear that decisions have been taken unanimously when there are two or three groups missing there. We would not have been absent and we could have made it clear to those in this House who say that there have been temporal forcings and that the judiciary has gone too far, that it was our job to reject from the outset, because then in this House, because of the chatter, colleagues are not careful. Moreover, we believe, and I ask you as the Parent Company, that the speeches of Senator Milo and Senator Falanga should be sent to the CPMP for disciplinary measures which it considers necessary to take on those who have committed the forcings and the illegalities that we have heard in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u76	Senator Barani, I note that your speech was on the order of business and not on the discussion and I remind you that Rule 19 of our Rules of Procedure prescribes that the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities is composed of twenty-three senators and is presided over by a senator who the Junta elects from among its members, that the senators appointed by the President of the Senate to compose the Junta cannot refuse to appoint or resign. We have the so-called and now famous Caliendo case which seems to me to be emblematic of compliance with these regulations. Therefore, since the adaptation to the changes in the composition of the various parliamentary groups which have taken place in this parliamentary term is unfortunately not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, it is not possible to change the composition of the Junta. Thank you, however, for reminding us of this circumstance.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u77	Mr President, I would like to take a moment of attention because we are proceeding under Article 68 of the Constitution and this affair has a peculiarity that makes it different from all the others. We are talking here, Mr President, you are teaching me this, about indirect interceptions, not occasional interceptions, as we have always done. Why indirect? Because from the beginning of the collection activity the prosecutor was aware not only of the involvement of President Berlusconi, but essentially of the aim of capturing President Berlusconi by intercepting the subjects that are indicated. I do not say that, Mr President, because President Stefano in saying that everything comes from a trial for fraud against third parties, perhaps he should have remembered that - I read the provision of registration made by the public prosecutor - Guerra Barbara is called as Cristina Battaglia, Magnano Francesco as Buongusto Alfredo, Berardi Iris as Lo Presti Rosa, i.e. with fantasy names (and perhaps thanks to a sharing in the new criminal trial, I hope that this habit or practice will be eliminated), all incriminated - which I have never seen and neither have you, Mr President - for the following title of crime: 319-b, committed in Milan before and next to March 20, 2012. The real crime contested is therefore corruption in judicial acts, absent the corruptor, while the offences referred to in Articles 110 and 640- bis of the Criminal Code, committed the previous year, are reported on 24 June 2011. In the face, therefore, we already have elements to say that we do all this, according to the prosecutor, for unavoidable reasons of confidentiality related to the notoriety of the people investigated. Do you realize that the people I have just mentioned had no notoriety at the time and that the only person known was Silvio Berlusconi who was neither mentioned nor quoted? Subsequently, these investigations and interceptions last for more than nine months, and despite the extension measures, as you teach me, the six months have never been notified. However, I do not want to stress here the inusability, misuse and illice of the acts carried out when the time for investigations had expired. I don't want to go in on this, because I want the Senate to establish a principle, because we can all have an indirect interception. Well, after nine months, the prosecutor asks for the dismissal of that investigation with reference to the conversations between the two women and their defender and between Battle and the Nascent. And who is the Nascent? Since the moment when the people investigated are indicated with fantasy names, Silvio Berlusconi is given the name of fantasy Andrea Nascente. I don't know why, maybe because he was an occasional interlocutor. The prosecutor states in his request for archiving that the content of such conversations is completely unusable. In the first case, when it concerns conversations between others, and in the second it is doubtful - he could not say otherwise, President - usability given the institutional office of the Nascent and the problems related to the assessment of the occasionality or not of telephone conversations held between the two women. So not only does the problem of indirect interception arise, but also the fact that, unless they were occasional interceptions, they cannot be used and the gup disposes of the storage. After that the investigations are reopened in order to use those same interceptions. Mr President, never before do I appeal to your tradition as a jurist. As you can see, a well-established practice has been recalled which contradicts not only the law but contradicts the Constitution. In the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, President Stefano, in acting as rapporteur, considered that only five interceptions, namely the first two of the two groups related to the War and the first referring to the Berardi, could be used and authorised. The Democratic Party, in particular the Parent Company, Senator Cucca, correctly posed the question, which I believe everyone, including the President of the Commission and the Leader of the Democratic Party, has consciously evaluated, since we are called to apply Article 68 of the Constitution, that there was awareness for all the interceptions after the first two, indeed after the first for each Group: Senator Cucca therefore invited the rapporteur president to modify the proposal, authorising the use only of the first three interceptions. All other groups are opposed to this proposal, but only the 5 Star Movement is opposed for the reason that all must be authorized. A new rapporteur is appointed, and I believe that he correctly requests that no interception should be allowed for the reasons I have just mentioned. This proposal is rejected and I am told that the document goes to the House with the proposal for the authorisation of all, according to practice. Do you realize? Only a small minority of the Junta, three people, was convinced of the possibility of authorising everything, while all the others were against it. At this point, then, I do not make you an alternative proposal, you decide, you have the consistency of behavior: you decide whether to authorize three, five, ten or eleven. The constitutional principles apply to me. We have already seen an absurdity, that is the registration in the register of the suspects with a fantasy name of some and for others, although it was a crime in competition necessary, the failure to register the corruptor. Mr President, I ask you: has Article 335 of the Code of Criminal Procedure replaced the judicial notice and the guarantee notice? How is that possible? I believe, indeed I am convinced that Senators Cucca and Stefano have deliberately considered that only three of the interceptions could be used according to their own vision, forgetting what the prosecutor had done and the initial awareness of where they wanted to arrive. I wonder, then, whether we have to follow a practice today or make that same statement in this House. As far as I am concerned, I am not speaking on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, but as a member of the Council, it is a question of affirming principles of law, Mr President, which can make this House boast of applying Article 68 of the Constitution according to the rules. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u78	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u79	Mr President, as Mr Stefano and you yourself have said, I have been rapporteur on part of this issue but I am speaking as a member of the Council and I want to express the greatest concerns. There are more issues on which we must decide: the first is about our competence, Mr President, because at the time of the events Dr Berlusconi was a member of another Parliamentary Assembly: he was a member of the House of Deputies. Dr Berlusconi is no longer a Member of Parliament, but he is no longer a Senator of this Parliament, and so I believe that he should refer to his condition at the time of the events and not to a subsequent condition that today, for the revocation procedure that has been pronounced in recent years, does not make him a participant in this House anymore. I believe that we must be rather strict on this point. The question of previous membership of the two Chambers, played, depending on the conveniences, on one or the other House, has never seen me agree with the House of Deputies when I was a member of that Council and I do not agree with it today. In my view, there is absolutely no legal basis for commenting on this point. Another issue is the work of the judiciary. While, in the previous case, colleagues have seen my difficulty in taking a contrary attitude, even though I am calling for a reflection, in this case I am clearly opposed to this type of activity, which has seen, firstly, the inclusion of the Member - of whom there is awareness - in the register of suspects under a fantasy name, and then - more serious - proceed with a non-existent crime, but simply with reference to the case of crime in order to accentuate coverage and to justify interceptions. I repeat that I am convinced that the state must proceed, through the work of the judiciary, in the most rigorous action to combat the criminal actions of anyone, but that it cannot do so using methods that are limited to our current legal system, both the constitutional one and the subordinate one. This is the point: it may also be the Father or a poor, single parliamentary, like the undersigned, but the laws must be equal for all and there can be no difference. I say the same for all, even for those who invoke the guillotine for others and salvation for themselves. Having said that (which does not relate to this matter) I would like to stress once again, Mr President, the action taken by the judiciary in this case, with the registration in the register of suspects for a crime for which it was not carried out, under the fantasy names of the subjects investigated with the motivation that the same subjects, having some notoriety, could lead to counterproductive media activities. From here, the fantasy name (which I don't even remember now, but which is in the record). I believe that the merit of the interceptions must have other kind of judgment, but that the use of the same cannot be done by circumventing the principles of guarantee that must always be a bulwark, and not only when it is convenient.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u80	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u81	Mr President, I would like to read what was written in the report, namely the randomness - on which my fellow Members have to vote - of this collection of telephone calls. They are certainly random because, in the period of interception - from March to November 2012 - Barbara Guerra users recorded a total of 12,986 contacts, while the users in use to Iris Berardi 9.928 contacts. More precisely, the contacts recorded between the users of Barbara Guerra and Silvio Berlusconi are 361, i.e. 361 times Barbara Guerra has tried to speak with Berlusconi (vocal calls, text messages and attempts to call), and only in about thirty circumstances the War has actually spoken with Berlusconi. As far as Berardi is concerned, only one user in use had 39 telephone contacts with the users in use in Silvio Berlusconi, and only in two circumstances did the same actually talk to the latter. Therefore, it is clear, colleagues, that you will vote to use the intercepts, that the almost 22,000 intercepted telephone calls have been randomly directed to intercept Berlusconi, that it had absolutely nothing to do with it, except that the same magistrates have never denied to know the link between the intercepted and Berlusconi, because - writes the gip - the inscription of Barbara Guerra and Iris Berardi is arranged with names of fantasy, in order to avoid leaks of news, and Berlusconi himself is registered with the name of Nascente. So we are in a circumstance where the magistrates themselves say that they have clearly, flatly, violated all the rules that are constitutionally written to ensure that a parliamentarians cannot be intercepted, except by chance. If you want to join the joke - because that is what it is - so on about 20,000 phone calls intercepted and on hundreds, hundreds and hundreds of phone calls addressed to Berlusconi to try to talk to him, those picked up were taken randomly, then it means that this House (if this proposal is approved) and those who vote for it are capable of everything. In other words, I mean that not for reasons of justice, but of deployment, of fierceness or hatred - call it whatever you want - it erases the reality of the facts and - excuse me - it is also made to take audiences around with respect to elements written black on white that will remain anyway. In fact, I do not speak in the hope of my fellow Members (although hope is the last to die), but to remain in the history and the chronicle of a Parliament. In fact, reading the infamies that Parliaments have carried out throughout history, I hope that it will remain a trace of the fact that this infamy was not accidental, because colleagues knew very well (it is written black on white) that those who voted for this use did so by tearing the Constitution, the rules and endorsing an abuse as large as a house by investigators who investigated and intercepted these utilities clearly to intercept Berlusconi, knowing it well, therefore violating laws and Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u82	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u85	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I believe that we and the citizens who will read the results of these decisions today have a right to protect, the right to the truth. In other words, we have the right to know simply whether or not our President-in-Office has been responsible for a particularly serious crime, which is corruption in judicial proceedings. If this assumption is indisputable, then I call on colleagues who have already expressed negative views on the granting of authorisation to use these telephone interceptions to make this understanding explicit and possibly to motivate it. This is the only interest, that is, that of a truth that will be procedural, a truth in which the accused - like anyone else - will have all the rights and means (which certainly do not lack) in order to defend himself. What I imagine and perhaps not all of us, but most of us in this House want to know is simply that. In order to obtain an answer to this question, because of its cultural, political, sociological and probably historical significance, our decision will be that of granting the use of telephone interceptions. Moreover, with reference to the circumstance repeatedly recalled of the use of pseudonyms or fantasy names for persons under investigation, I regret contradicting Senator Caliendo when he spoke of the date of 2011 as a period when Berardi and the other investigated were unknown to most. If you write only two words with your tablet, such as "2011" and "Olgettine", you will easily find news articles that already brought to the attention of the public the names of the attendances of the former President of the Council, including those related to the intercepts in question. Evidently, therefore, the use of pseudonyms or fantasy names provided by the investigative judiciary was clearly aimed, as early as 2011, at the protection of privacy, that privacy often invoked because allegedly injured by the content of interceptions or other investigative acts that are legitimately made public; therefore it is not true. To the question if we want to know what the truth of the case will be, our answer is: yes. We want to know whether the former President of the Council, Mr Berlusconi, has bribed witnesses with statements of money or real estate, whether he has influenced their testimony, whether he has persuaded people to revoke the constitution of a civil party in criminal proceedings in which they were designated as offended parties or not. Only this is the thing on which Italian citizens are entitled to have an answer. In addition to the reasons that I have already briefly explained in the other speech, always relating to the use of telephone interceptions, there is a clear and coherent political position of the 5 Star Movement - whether it pleases it or not - for which, precisely because of the principle of equality and precisely because of the parliamentary prerogatives do not become a shield in a subtle way, we say that these measures should no longer exist and that unfortunately, instead, we see confirmed in the new structure of the "paraSenato" provided for by the so-called constitutional reforms. In fact, let us remember that regional councillors and mayors will be able to enjoy the same (I still want to call them so) privileges of which still today someone wants to shield himself in order to ensure that there can be no procedural truth. Therefore, in a convinced, determined way, I would like to address my colleagues who, perhaps with the secret vote, will feel free to vote according to conscience, even if they can escape the indications of party, I declare the favorable vote of the 5 Star Movement, at the same time inviting all Members of this House to a call of conscience, so that the question I referred to may have a clear answer. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u88	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, he was not registered. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to respond to Senator Buccarella, who expresses a question of principle. AIROLA (M5S). But that's the answer? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are at the stage of explanations of vote. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Perfect. I would remind you that Senator Berlusconi has been expelled from this House on the basis of a judgment against which, on the substance, all previous and subsequent judgments have sung the defendants for the same facts. It is a unicum in Italian jurisprudence and cost him the expulsion from the Senate. I remember that Senator Berlusconi was acquitted for the facts for which he had ended up in trial, with final judgment, and these interceptions are the continuation of a trial in which Silvio Berlusconi was acquitted. I remember that, in the hundreds of attempts of girls to call Berlusconi, he - you mean candidly, naively - was talking about civil proceedings, not about corruption. I note that the former President-in-Office of the Council once again ends up in the judicial mince, and this will probably end up like the others, with absolution. Of course, however, there is a vulnus that is addressed to an important character of Italian history, of the past and also of the future (and I am not part of his party, so I have no party interest to say this): this happens through attitudes that, on the merits, are clearly persecutors. Public opinion is not only made by people who do not reason, but also by people who would like to understand the reasons why they start from the famous elegant dinners and end up in a sequel of events that for years keep a political character on the gratula, even getting to blatantly violate the law to continue this type of persecution. All right, he's been eliminated, the government has fallen, he's been marginalized, he's been expelled from the Senate; but why this aggression through the violation of the law? This I ask, Mr President, of my colleagues in the Five Star Movement. In fact, when you exceed the limit of reasonableness, it is clear that people understand that we are no longer seeking justice. We are looking for revenge that is played against a character who will have his limits, who will have made his mistakes, but who continues to be exposed to situations such as these that become unreasonable and go beyond the limit, especially when mocking those who have to judge. The magistrate adds that, after further confirmation of the accidentality of communications, it has been found that against almost 400 attempts by girls to contact Berlusconi only 29 times have been successful. We are talking about 400 attempts; and they want to convince us that the interception of 29 out of 400 calls in which Berlusconi responded was accidental. The magistrates said: casually these girls talked to Berlusconi. I don't know if you realize the reasons for continuing this kind of persecution. I will vote against the Junta's proposal, also recalling that there was a large majority in Junta that had spoken to use only five of these interceptions and not all of them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u89	I have received a request for a secret ballot. Pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore refer to the secret ballot of the proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to grant authorization to use the interceptions of all telephone conversations of Dr Silvio Berlusconi, a Member of Parliament at the time of the events, the subject of the request of the judicial authority, i.e. the phone calls of: a) 12 April 2012 (identified by the "progressive" 478); (b) 16 April 2012 (identified by "progressive" 241); (c) 20 April 2012 (identified as "progressive" 863); (d) 21 April 2012 (identified by "progressive" 271); (e) 15 May 2012 (identified by "progressive" 2220); (f) 22 June 2012 (identified by "progressive" 3123); g) 9 July 2012 (identified by "progressive" 3999); h) 31 July 2012 (identified by "progressive" 5704); (i) 1 August 2012 (identified by "progressive" 5752); (l) 27 August 2012 (identified by "progressive" 921); m) 27 August 2012 (identified by "progressive" 922). I'm begging the Senators Secretary to check the stations to see if there's any leftovers. There aren't any. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL). Chorus from the M5S Group at the address of the PD Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). You guys suck. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 11.48 a.m. and resumed at 11.57 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u90	The next item is the debate on the document: Application of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of civil proceedings against Senator Stefano Esposito, pending before the Court of Rome. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council has decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly that it considers that the fact, for which civil proceedings against Senator Stefano Esposito are being held in Rome, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and that, therefore, in this case, the constitutional guarantee of insindacability referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Ferrara Mario, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u91	Mr President, being rapporteur requires me, more than ever before, to be clear, not only out of duty towards colleagues, but out of legitimate, direct and personal interest in this case...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u92	I'm sorry to interrupt, Senator Ferrara. The Senator Council may have a sickness; we called the doctor. I shall briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.59 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon.) The session is resumed. Excuse me, Senator Mario Ferrara, for interrupting you, but the circumstances have led me to do so. Senator Council has gone to be checked out. Go ahead with your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u93	Mr President, I must also be clear because it often happens that the documents on which we then vote, in the case between the parties, between the plaintiff and the defendant, between the plaintiffs and the plaintiff, are then submitted to the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Specifically, in this case, in addition to the document annexed to the minutes of the sitting, parts of that document are explained in order to be recorded in the central body of the documents relating to today's sitting and are therefore annexed to the minutes of the sitting. Senator Stefano Esposito, according to the actors, when he became city council member of the Rome Capital Council in July 2015... [[Brusio.]] Senator D'Anna, are we doing this in two or are you just doing it? As I said, when he became city council member of the Rome Capital Council in July 2015, since his establishment he expressed dissensions and concerns about the management of the ATAC, the transport company of Rome Capital. According to the plaintiffs, at the end of July, on the occasion of the suspension of a driver of the company, sanctioned for having published on the Internet a video denouncing the causes of malfunctioning of the service, Senator Stefano Esposito stated that the responsibility of the event was all at the top of the ATAC, for which one has a problem of executives. This is the first of the statements to which the plaintiffs refer. To this are added many others, some made in writing, others to the microphones of some radios, including Radio Roma Capitale and also within a deepening of Sky Tg24. In summary, I would like to leave out the facts, because I think that this report can give an idea of what happened and what happened on time. In Junta we have followed, different from other times, during this parliamentary term, two motivational paths. We have led one in the light of the criteria set out in Parliament's case law. This criterion, in my opinion, was already sufficient in itself, and that is what I have undertaken to argue in a preparatory and conclusive way with respect to the body of the whole debate. The other path, the one elaborated according to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, for my part is probably not shared in the premise, because in essence the final device was approved. In other words, the Council decided to propose to the Assembly the decision whereby the opinions expressed by Senator Stefano Esposito are opinions and, therefore, cannot be subjected to civil proceedings. However, I should like to make a brief comment on this part. What we are dealing with every time on the occasion of the authorizations is having to decide, following a doctrine that has been formed within the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which in turn refers to previous decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, whether the sentences said by the parliamentarians are attributable to the criteria of freedom by a Member of Parliament or whether, instead, they, acting as a parliamentary shield of its prerogatives, are personal offenses and therefore the defence under guarantee provided by the Constitution cannot be recalled. In particular, the Chamber of Deputies, in 2009, at the end of a long debate on the criteria, highlighted and expressed its intention that two requirements should be met: on the one hand, to support the natural predisposition of politics and its parliamentary representatives to enjoy in the most free and full way of the political scene (the meaning is this); on the other hand, that which is why this prerogative cannot be used to shield itself from an interpersonal activity that hides behind parliamentary activity but rather does not concern its own parliamentary activity. A very evocative example is the report that I am going to read, as the Offices have helped me to do, so that it remains in the proceedings in a more precise way than it would be with a simple formal presentation. The only limit which exists with regard to the applicability of the right of insindicability relates to the views expressed by the Member in a non-political but personal context and, as such, does not in any way relate to the exercise of the duties inherent in the mandate. A trivial example: It is only by way of example that a Member of Parliament offends a neighbour for a condominium dispute, clearly in an area which cannot be linked to the exercise of the parliamentary mandate - and therefore must - subject to common criminal law. The Court has pointed out, in a perhaps too mechanical way, some paths, namely: the work must be related to something that has political significance; and in this sense, given the parliamentary mandate, it must be a result of a parliamentary activity which has been expressly carried out: therefore, interventions carried out in the Chamber, in the Commission, trade union acts. For our part, it is noted that so many times this decision by the Constitutional Court is considered in a way too mechanical, so that the Member who, at the time of a political assembly, has to say something politically strong, should almost go, even in the middle of a working period, to Parliament and take up what has been said in this House or ask a question. This means reducing the scope of the protection of human rights (to which the Court refers in the light of the decisions taken at the European Court of Human Rights), which must be repeated in this House, but in the light of the premises of the parliamentary law to which I referred earlier. Now, in this case, in defense of Senator Stefano Esposito, there is specifically an activity in this sense by the Senator himself. Senator Matteoli told us that Senator Stefano Esposito had expressed himself several times in the Commission's Presidency: he had asked for the summits to be called to the Commission, he had given great importance to his conviction and to his activity, which was even before the appointment of the city councilor to the City of Rome. Some members of the Commission have noted that this activity was communicated to the Junta by President Matteoli and that there is no account. It is easy at this point to argue that even at the meetings of the Commission, in most cases, there is not a shorthand account but only a summary report and, on the other hand, we write specifically in the report that, on the contrary, if Senator Stefano Esposito were sued for sentences given in the Presidency Council, if this could not be testified with the relevant documentation by the President, there could be no guarantee under Article 68 of the work of the Member. Therefore, the documents paid to the acts of the Commission and taken into account in the construction of the decision-making process strongly confirm the decision to decide that it cannot proceed with Senator Stefano Esposito, because he has expressed the views of the body of the proceedings with regard to him in the performance of his parliamentary duties.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u94	I declare the debate open. Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u95	Mr President, I happened to chair for two and a half years the Parliamentary Parliamentary Council and, on that occasion, even though the majority was from the Left Centre and the government was from Prodi, we unanimously drew up a document which was the parameter to be used in all cases to determine when the statements were or were not unavoidable. I have always referred to that document because, in my experience, the Junta has always followed those indications. In fact, we must set a parameter that applies to everyone, which therefore applies to the case of Stefano Esposito and to the case of Giarrusso. The parameter was: if statements are made in the Chamber, in the Commission or in acts of inspection union, there is no doubt that they are not negotiable. They are also indisputable because, as you know, if Parliament's powers are exceeded by speaking in this House, the President makes a call and if slanderous phrases are used in a question, the President does not admit it. However, it is clear that the things that are being said in this House, in the Commission and in the acts of inspection union are indisputable. It must also be added that today Parliament is accompanied by other 'Speakings': television broadcasts such as Vespa's, the speeches, the activities of the talk shows. It is clear that if a Member of Parliament, perhaps dealing with events of great topical importance such as those which have occurred in recent days and perhaps on Fridays, on Saturdays or on Sundays, makes political judgements, he cannot be called upon to answer them - if they are indeed political judgments - because the activity he carries out is closely linked to the activity he would have done in Parliament if he had been opened on that occasion. Therefore, contrary to what the Constitutional Court says, we have argued that if the Member intervenes on a political fact and expresses a judgment, the fact that he has not expressed it strictly in the Parliamentary Chamber does not make his views disable. But then we put a very precise stake: if the Member, who has not spoken in the Chamber, in an act of inspection union or in the Commission, attributes certain facts outside the Chamber to another person, that is to say, in some way offends her or slander, and therefore that citizen or another Member of Parliament feels damaged in his good repute and calls him into question, that Member must answer to the citizen. Now we have two very similar cases here, because both in the case of Stefano Esposito and in the case of Giarrusso we have two parliamentarians who have attributed very serious facts outside the Chamber to a third person, in the case of Giarrusso even to a MP in the PD, with accusations that have to do with the mafia activity that, if proven, would result in crimes that would involve years and years of imprisonment. I therefore ask my fellow Members to be consistent: either we establish that a colleague who gives certain facts outside the Chamber must answer them (and this must be true for both Giarrusso and Stefano Esposito), or we establish that, on the basis of the Group of which he belongs, there is a change of case law at any time and that what applies to one of the Group's colleagues does not apply to another's colleague. This, in my opinion, is totally unacceptable, because it would really degrade our function, which is precise. I believe, then, that if we always adhere to these criteria, we would first of all safeguard the freedom of the Member of Parliament. I repeat this once again: the freedom of the Member of Parliament to intervene is a protection of the citizens, because when he expresses himself and when he is critical, perhaps with the banking system or with the strong powers, he can say things that a citizen struggles to say because he does not have this protection. That is what Parliament is for. And we all know how easy it would be to paralyze even a parliamentarians if they were subject to lawsuits and complaints and did not have this shield that would allow them to do their duty as parliamentarians. Evidently at the fourth complaint it is clear that the wife would call him and say: "Stop it, otherwise we faint only to pay the lawyers". It is clear that if there were not this kind of protection of the freedom of a Member of Parliament to express opinions and judgements, even harsh ones, against those who have the power, power and money to counter it, Parliament's activity would be degraded. However, there must be this limit: in the case of third-party behaviours, in some cases even crimes, in others which tarnish the goodness of people, i.e. when we are outside this context of opinion, the citizen must be given the opportunity to react. It seems to me that this should be taken care of by this Senate. Therefore, I announce that in both cases I will vote in the same way, both in the case of Stefano Esposito and in the case of Giarrusso, because it is two attitudes kept outside the Chamber that are equivalent.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u96	The debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u99	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, the vote of the 5 Star Movement Group on the motion for a resolution is against, although it understands the reasons that led the Council by majority on the proposal to recognise the unassailability of the opinions expressed by Senator Stefano Esposito with reference to the statements cited. Even without wishing to recall what I have said before and it could happen, if 74 regional councillors and 21 mayors were to sit on these posts, if the so-called constitutional reforms were to arrive, we understand well the difficulty that will arise in distinguishing the institutional role of parliamentarians (therefore rightly provided with the prerogative of indisplaceability for the opinions and votes expressed) from that of different institutional positions, such as that of regional councillor. We trust that this will not happen, because the Italians will have their ears and their eyes open and will vote in the majority in the constitutional referendum, but if this does not happen, let's imagine how many problems of this type will have to affect the Junta (or what will be the body called upon to decide on the unspeakableness of opinions or votes expressed). Let's remember that in the case of Senator Stefano Esposito, the role he played at the time he spoke expressions - which, incidentally, are also probably shared in the merit by those who speak and by my Group - was that of city council member to the City of Rome. Imagine what will happen when the Regional Councillor sits here, if anything this will happen: he will take off the hat as a counselor, and he will put that as a senator or, vice versa, and when on his own territories he will say something or vote something else as a regional councillor, by virtue of his role as parliamentarians he will also be able to use this principle. It is true that the rule in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution is already applied to regional councillors, but the similar issue of the so-called immunity, which we have been talking about until recently, will be the subject of debate and interpretation. Therefore, the vote of the 5 Star Movement on the proposal of the Junta is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u102	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I will speak both on this document and on the next one, because the constitutional guarantees on the views expressed by Members must be as broad as possible. We are experiencing a particular moment; in our country there is a political debate, even in the face of experiences of our no longer recent past, but looking a little 'outside our borders, there are dramatic situations in these hours that should lead us to evaluate more carefully the constitutional principles that are to defend the autonomy of Parliament and to guarantee the free expression of parliamentarians. I simply recall, as a pure example, what happened in recent weeks compared to 50 opposition parliamentarians in Turkey (50 out of 59), inquisited for various reasons by the advancing authority, and we also know what the subsequent events were, which probably had some sort of concatenation. In the face of this situation, we must have the courage to adopt strict attitudes and ensure that Parliament takes on the role that it often forgets, that is to say, a place of absolute guarantee over that critical activity that often becomes necessary and, as often as often, is perhaps a little above tone. The two events we are discussing - and I am also referring to the following document - have the same characteristics, similar also to the events of other colleagues who have led me to take often countercurrent attitudes, in defence, precisely, of this principle of guarantee, which, as I said already in the Junta, must be absolute. Then we can also discuss it, but I believe that when we introduce "ifs" and "buts" the principles become weak. We need absolute guarantees of the freedom of expression of those who play the role of Parliament and who, to some extent, must put as much energy into the field as possible to support their positions and views, obviously excluding violent actions, but often the political debate has strong features, as has happened repeatedly in this House. Having said that, I believe that we cannot use different meters and measures, nor can we come to that protection even in the face of requests (this is the case referred to in the next item on the agenda) with which we are still asking for the processability of colleagues or some colleagues, because the guarantee is not to protect our feelings or our private affairs. In fact, we are here in a public service to guarantee an electoral mandate that has been assigned to us and that cannot be mitigated in its position or freedom of expression. We therefore have a duty here to defend our maximum freedom of expression on any subject, and we must not accept even oblique activities - allow me to say this definition, perhaps not proper - so, in order to impress the disturber, perhaps he is accused of activities that are not related to the parliamentary or instrumental lawsuits. Roman events are before everyone's eyes; probably Senator Esposito may have raised a little 'tone, but there was and there is something to raise the tone compared to certain events that take place before our eyes and for the truth not only in Rome: in these days the pages of the newspapers call us to other very complicated realities. I say to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement that on this point I shall also vote for the indisputability of my colleague Mr Giarrusso. [[Applause from Senator Quagliariello]] I am so that protection is absolute, at least in freedom of expression, then on the concrete facts there can be the flagrant acts of crime that demonstrate responsibility without risk of misrepresentation, or very serious crimes that must be prosecuted even if the Member is in office etc. However, the guarantee of freedom of expression, with the means available to modern communication (televisions, radio, newspapers, the Internet) must be total, so my vote on the Junta's report is in favour in this case and in advance that it will be against in the next vote on Mr Giarrusso.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u105	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u106	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to point out that the Council's proposal for elections and parliamentary immunity is to be voted by a simultaneous ballot to consider that the fact, for which civil proceedings against Senator Stefano Esposito are being held at the Court of Rome, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and that, therefore, the constitutional guarantee of incontrovertibility referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies in this case. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u107	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings (No 119/16 RGNR-1234/16 RG GIP) against Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso, transmitted by the tribunal of Enna.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u110	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business because the item on the agenda now contains a subject which concerns one of our colleagues. At this moment Senator Giarrusso is not in the Chamber, but is on a mission with the anti-Mafia Commission and therefore, because we believe it is necessary for him to be able to express his voice in this House, we simply ask that the examination of this point be postponed once the mission of the Anti-Mafia Commission has been completed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u113	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I object to nothing of merit. I simply ask that this criterion applies to everyone. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and AL-A.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u114	Senator, from time to time, when a similar request is made, if anyone has anything against it, we will proceed with the scheduled agenda. I want it to be clear: it is not a criterion. It is a request made in this House publicly: as long as one is against it and we have to proceed with the scheduled agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u117	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, for the very reasons I set out earlier, I believe that this matter is not just about Senator Giarrusso; therefore, the presence of Senator Giarrusso was his faculty. I am a member of the Anti-Mafia Commission, now on a mission, and I am here as rapporteur. Since the matter concerns him, he should have been here; I think it was right. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bencini and Orellana.]] Having said that, however, I believe that we must decide not on what Senator Giarrusso will tell us, but on the principle which I have modestly mentioned earlier: we here are not private property of ourselves; here we have a public function of general interest, to protect the interests that the Italian people asked us to represent when they sent us to sit in this House. We can therefore decide freely today without the presence of Senator Giarrusso, who, if he wanted to tell us something special, had to come and tell us. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bencini and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u120	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not think that the rule that normally applies when you ask for a topic to be moved to the agenda should be applied. I believe that the rule of legitimate impediment should be applied in this case. [[Applause from Senator Carraro]] There is a legitimate impediment of Senator Giarrusso, who is participating in the mission of the Anti-Mafia Commission; for this reason, as would any correct judge (because there are also incorrect judges), the request for referral must be accepted. [[Ironic applause and comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u121	Please don't sound. Everyone has the power to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u124	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to say, in support of the request made by my Parent Company, that Mr Giarrusso's request is not determined by a mere desire to be present during the debate on the Junta's measure, but by the fact that he himself intends to speak in the explanation of vote. It is therefore not a mere absence, which would certainly not be obstructive. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] It is noisy and I am sorry to have checked that even the well-known guarantor, Mr Buemi, did not perceive this aspect, which is perhaps more explicit here. The request is based on the fact that he intends to speak in order to discuss, to represent the circumstances and to express his explanation of vote. In view of the institutional commitment, the request is to postpone until the next possible meeting, at the end of the mission of the Anti-Mafia Commission. [[Comments of Senator Bencini]] I do not think that it is uncomfortable for anyone, much less for the majority members, some of whom are protesting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u127	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, Mr Giarrusso then asked to speak in an explanation of vote, in the sense that I sang it and played it at the "Movement 5 Stars Way." I take note of that. [[Applause from Senator Puppato]] I say immediately that I am in favour of a postponement so that Giarrusso can defend himself. I would point out that he was particularly unfortunate, because even in the Junta, after having declared in writing and put to the record the request for inconvenience, he did not actually appear. I do not know if it has brought justifications in that case too, but I would point out that when I, for health reasons, had sent medical certificates, I was absent I was taken up by Giarrusso himself and this was also an argument that led to my expulsion. So, was he particularly unlucky about being absent or does the brave Giarrusso suddenly have a little bit of fear and, therefore, asks for a postponement? I take note of that and grant tolerance. I would like to repeat another point. Senator Giarrusso has always reprimanded me by saying that the Junta had priority over everything. So I don't see why he couldn't give up his mission with the anti-Mafia Commission. Let me reflect on another fact: Senator Giarrusso, in fact, is "object of attention" from this point of view: perhaps another Member, with the same arguments and accusations, could have been suspended. We have seen that the M5S Group for much less are being pushed away, Commission movements, suspensions and expulsions. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] In Junta you can not and therefore we take note of this silence and invite to urge as soon as possible a new session on this topic so that Senator Giarrusso brings his arguments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u130	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am against postponement because we are not a court and we do not have to decide on the substance of the matter; we simply have to verify the application of Article 68 (1) of the Constitution. Moreover, my colleague, who is actually on a mission - I do not doubt that - has given versions that leave us somewhat perplexed. We shouldn't even be here to vote. I read the report: It should be noted in advance that Senator Crimi reported at his session on 6 July 2016 that Senator Giarrusso, with a statement to the press, asked for the non-application of the prerogative of inindacability. So he wouldn't want to be unindicable, but to be judged directly by the competent court. Evidently we did not have to get to this point either: instead of communicating through the Parent Company that it was not possible for him to be present today, perhaps he should have sent a letter to the President of the Senate in which he communicated that he absolutely did not want to use the inindacability. [[Applause from the PD, Misto-Idv and Senator De Pietro groups]] On various public occasions, the Vice President of the Chamber also stated that no member of the 5 Star Movement would ask for inindacability or any kind of immunity. Faced with this and not having to go into the matter, I do not see what can add the presence of Senator Giarrusso to this debate, which is different from that on the previous cases of Senator Milo and former Senator Berlusconi, because these concerned other aspects of parliamentary immunity. I therefore believe that we should proceed and decide quickly in this case. Moreover, I would have liked Mr Giarrusso to be here to repeat what he said to the press; what we say here must be directly linked to what we say outside. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed and Senator Buemi Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u133	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, the speeches must be on the substance and not go any further. It's up to you... [[Lively comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u134	Thank you for calling me back to my duties.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u137	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I also support the view that deliberation should be adopted today and should not be postponed, as Senator Orellana has also pointed out, because the 5 Star Movement has always said that Articles 67 and 68 of the Constitution - the most beautiful Constitution in the world - should not exist. Senator Buccarella repeated it, too. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Senator Airola, please, take the treatment right! [[Laughter]] In my view, the proposal must be voted on here today. Senator Giarrusso renounces his insincability and, consequently, his presence here is pleonastic. Then he could also avoid going on a mission with the Anti-Mafia Commission: his presence was not so exalted and necessary. [[Applause from the PD Group]] As a result, I think we need to vote today. Not only that. The members of the 5 Star Movement abuse article 68 because, in addition to the indistinguishability, they use it to establish the political domicile, at their indisputable judgment, in the houses that have undergone an injunction of eviction, in order to prevent the family that lives there from actually having to undergo eviction. This - I repeat - happens to them indisputable judgment. This is not the way to solve the problem of people who do not have a home, who have to face it in another way. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Bottici]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u138	Senator Bencini, I invite you to stick to the subject of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u139	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). As far as I am concerned, we must vote today. (Long exchange of letters between Senator Bencini and Senator Bottici).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u140	Senator Bencini, I'm calling you back to order. You finished your speech. I put to the vote the proposal to postpone the examination of document IV-b, No 9, tabled by Senator Lucidi. It's not approved. [[Senator Bignami's comments.]] I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on document IV-b, No 9, has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council has proposed by a majority to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso do not constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore do not fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. [[Brusio.]] I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Augello, if he wishes to speak, if he would ask his colleagues to lower their voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u141	Mr President, before carrying out this report, I would like to inform you and the House that, as rapporteur, I did not consider it appropriate to take part in the vote on the substance of the matter raised by my colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u142	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u143	Mr Augello, rapporteur. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso, following a complaint lodged on 24 May 2015, is investigated for the crime provided for and punished by Article 595 (1) and (3) of the Criminal Code, for offending the reputation of Mrs Maria Gaetana Greco, Member of the House of Deputies, elected in the Democratic Party, communicating with more people, with the effect of having used a means of advertising. The judge for the preliminary investigation states that Senator Giarrusso published on May 23, 2015, on the blog of Beppe Grillo, a declaration signed by him with the following content: It is unacceptable and intolerable that in 2015 it is still possible to exhibit in such a dramatic way behaviors and subjects denoting contiguity with the mafia environments, moreover in an electoral campaign. According to the judge for the preliminary investigation, Senator Giarrusso in that circumstance referred to the presence, among others, of Mr Greco at the electoral meeting held in Piazza Garibaldi, Agira, on 16 May 2015. The judge for the preliminary investigations considered that he could not proceed with the direct filing of the proceedings, but had to transmit the acts directly to the Senate of the Republic, since the contested expression to Senator Giarrusso was undoubtedly pronounced in a political context, but in his opinion the state does not see the necessary temporal link between the parliamentary activity and the external one, such that the latter would assume the dissemination purposes of the first. The magistrate himself reports that there seems to be no correspondence of significance between the external act and the opinions expressed in the exercise of his duties, highlighting - in relation to what has been clarified by the Constitutional Court (judgment No 144 of 2015) - that a simple thematic connection, partial correspondence or a mere political context is not sufficient for this purpose. I must now point out a circumstance that was communicated to us at the session of 6 July 2016 by Senator Crimi, referring to the will of Senator Giarrusso, who at the time had simply made a statement to the press just a few hours before the session of the Junta, who had asked for the non-application of the prerogative of invincability. Having occurred only in the course of the session, the final proposal submitted to the Junta was drawn up by the rapporteur taking into account only the defensive memories delivered to the proceedings by Senator Giarrusso himself, with whom instead it was requested the application of the prerogative of inindacability through the proposition of a series of arguments that will be analysed below. Moreover, Senator Giarrusso himself claimed in the course of the proceedings that it was indisputable, pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 2, of Law No 140 of 2003. All this said, it is considered useful to recall briefly the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court in the matter of insindicability, which identifies the limits of application of the prerogative itself, specifying that, if these limits were broken by the Chambers in hermeneutics, this interpretation would end up nullifying the functional link posed by the first paragraph of Article 68, and would entail the risk of transforming the prerogative into a personal privilege. In particular, the constant jurisprudence of the Consulta considers that the statements made extramoenia by a parliamentarians are covered by the prerogative of inindacability, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, provided that a functional link with the exercise of the parliamentary mandate is recognizable, based on the following two requirements: the first consists in a substantial correspondence of content between opinions expressed outside and opinions expressed in the parliamentary classrooms; the second requirement concerns the existence of a "temporal link" between the parliamentary activity and the symmetrical external activity, in such a way that the latter assumes a sort of dissemination role compared to the first. Senator Giarrusso presented two defensive memoirs, the first on 23 June, the second on 29 June. Of course, Mr President, these two defensive memoirs, for accidents, are added to the previously mentioned element of the request for inconvenience made before the court of merit; in those memoirs Senator Giarrusso again asked for inindacibility. So in all he has required three times the inindacability. First of all, on the memory of 29 June, it is noted that, in the light of the jurisprudence of the Consulta so far summarized, the argument indicated at the first point of the defensive memory in question (i.e. the non-susistence of the crime of defamation due to the indeterminateness of the actual recipient of the alleged offense) cannot be accepted, for profiles related to the limits to the power of inquiry of the Junta and in particular for the preclusive effect of the aforementioned limits on the possibility for the latter to ascertain the constituent elements of the crime. In this regard, it should be noted that, from a methodological point of view, it has been stated on several occasions, in accordance with the consistent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, that the examination carried out by the Junta in this area must necessarily be limited to the assessment of the circumstance whether the statements made extramoenia are functionally related to the parliamentary activity carried out by the senator concerned. The Giunta has therefore always focused its investigative activities on the matter in question on these profiles, reaffirming several times that other assessments remain completely unrelated to the scope of the powers recognized to the Junta (and the Senate), such as that relating to the proof of correctness or not of the qualification of the criminal fact by the magistrate, as well as to the very configurability of the fact as a crime. Several times in the course of the various debates, in relation to cases of complaints for defamation, some members of the Junta proposed the erroneous qualification of the fact by the magistrate, arguing in some cases the argument that the statements were not, for example, offensive and that therefore the crime was not configurable. In view of these propositions, in accordance with the principle of the separation of powers, it has always been argued that the Junta cannot qualify as a fourth degree of judgment (not least as a sort of special court or an internal court of appeal to the Chambers) and that it is therefore not up to any union on the justification and not even the legitimacy of the accusatory hypothesis. In other words, the Junta cannot recognize an improper power of condemnation or absolution, obviously not being able to use the same, compared to a case at its own examination, nor the procedural formula that the crime does not exist, nor the procedural formula that the fact does not constitute crime and nor the formula according to which the accused is guilty, being indisputable that this power is the exclusive competence of the judicial authority. Moreover, a breach of the judgements of the Junta on the verification of the existence or not of the crime would conflict with the functional profile that constitutes the basis of the entire system of immunity provided for by the Constitution; the latter constitute, in fact, derogations from the principle of equality and as such are allowed in such a derogation only in relation to the strict limits of the protection of the parliamentary function, the only one subject to evaluation of the Senate. It should also be noted that, in the matter of insincability, the proposals of the Junta deposited in the Assembly by the various rapporteurs have always been in line with the jurisprudence of the Consulta, also in order to avoid the paradoxical effect that arguments oriented against constitutionem could in practice frustrate the prerogative of unindicability, opening the way to conflicts of attribution raised by the judicial authority in front of the Constitutional Court. For all these reasons, the assessment of the existence or not of the crime, the subject of the first point of the defensive memory, cannot be entered into the investigation of the Junta and should therefore be considered inadmissible in Parliament. In the criminal judgment of first instance Senator Giarrusso will be able to present this defensive thesis and submit to the judging body his own assessments of the non-absence - in his opinion - of the crime due to the indeterminate nature of the person offended, obtaining, if necessary, at the outcome of the judgment, an acquittal with the formula "as the fact does not constitute a crime", obviously if the judge agrees. The Junta, on the other hand, is foreign to this area and to such assessments, and it is important to stress that this extraneousness is not motivated on the basis of merely formalistic or detailed profiles, but rather involving fundamental constitutional principles, such as the principle of equal treatment in the face of jurisdiction, which is a corollary of the principle of equality and which can only be exempted in relation to the limited areas of operation of parliamentary prerogatives. Another fundamental principle that would be harmed is that of the separation of powers, in the same way that the exercise of the evaluative power in relation to the subsistence or not of the indistinguishability, which is the responsibility of the Senate under the so-called "parliamentary jurisdiction," meets, however, the constitutional limit of the correct exercise of that power, correctness that would be less if the Senate exercised its power outside the boundaries of the "quantum possit," trespassing in areas reserved for the criminal process (of course with all the consequent profiles of constitutional litigation). The argument contained in the third point of the defensive statement concerning the existence of a criminal in the exercise of a right under Article 51 of the Criminal Code is also inadmissible in Parliament. The objective causes of exclusion of the crime are particular situations in which a fact, which would otherwise be considered a crime, is not such because the law allows it, imposes it or tolerates it (Articles 50 et seq. of the Criminal Code). The criminals, therefore, are based on the principle of non-contradiction according to which a legal order cannot, at the same time, allow and prohibit the same fact. The dominant doctrine believes that the criminals enter the structure of the crime, as causes of exclusion of anti-juridism or as negative elements of the fact, which must therefore be lacking in order for the fact to constitute a crime. For example, for the configurability of the crime of voluntary murder, it is necessary that the fact has not been committed in the presence of a situation attributable to the legitimate defence, using which the case of voluntary murder cannot precisely be perfected. With respect to a crime of defamation the criminal of the exercise of the law excludes the configurability of the crime, i.e. excludes that the established fact can be classified as criminally relevant. The determination of the presence or not of a criminal is entrusted to the exclusive competence of the judicial authority, the only one to which in our legal system is assigned the power to ascertain the existence of the constituent elements of the crime (also those "negative," i.e. the absence of criminals). Nor can he deceive the criminal in question into the political criticism, given that the Junta does not have to assess the existence of such a "negative element" of the crime, but rather the assessment that the declaration expressed by the Member is due or not to the exercise of parliamentary functions. The theoretical and methodological scope of the two aforementioned situations is only apparently similar, being in fact very different, and in particular in the first case focused on the assessment of the existence or not of the crime. For a principle of division of powers, the determination of the first of the two profiles referred to is the exclusive competence of the judicial authority, while only the second is the competence of the Senate. It is hardly appropriate to point out that the jurisprudence has characterized a number of critical rights: think, for example only, of the right of trade-union criticism, recognized to trade union representatives by the jurisprudence, both criminal and professional; of the right of journalistic criticism, corollary of the so-called right of news; of the right of satire. But these are criminals who, as such, must be brought to trial by the trade unionist, the journalist, the politician who is not parliamentary and finally - as in our case - by the same parliamentary politician if the exercise of parliamentary functions is not configurable. In this regard, it should be noted that the Constitutional Court, in judgment No 144 of 2015, in relation to the scope of application of the prerogative of inindacability, states, at the same time: It should therefore be reiterated that the thesis advocated by the Senate in the memoir of constitution, according to which the perimeter of parliamentary inindacability for the opinions expressed extra-moenia should be re-modulated in an extensive sense, in view of the changed posing of the parliamentary mandate, to include all those occasions when the parliamentarians reach the citizen, illustrating opinions attributable to or attributable to the office held and not related to their private sphere of interest. This thesis appears, due to the excessive vagueness of the terms and concepts used, not compatible with the constitutional design. The boundary between political criticism in the broadest sense, which is not suitable for rooting the prerogative of inindacability, and the exercise of the specific parliamentary function emerges in clear letters from the above-mentioned judgment, which, moreover, takes up a constant orientation of the Consulta. The second point raised by Senator Giarrusso in his memory concerns an emphasis, namely the fact that the article appeared on the portal of the 5 Star Movement, defined as a political portal and aimed at the dissemination of the ideas of the Movement. According to Senator Giarrusso, in the present case, the inclusion in the Beppe Grillo blog of the statement subject to the complaint proves the exquisitely political nature of these statements. This reconstruction totally contrasts with the interpretation lines enucleated by the Consulta. In particular, the Constitutional Court, in judgment No 144 of 2015, has specified that "the political context" or in any case the inequence to issues of general importance, even debated in Parliament, within which the external declarations can be placed, does not apply to connoting them as expressive of the function, where they, not constituting the substantial reproduction of the specific opinions expressed by the parliamentarians in the exercise of their powers, are not already the reflection of the particular contribution that each Member and each senator makes to the parliamentary life through his own opinions and his own votes (as such covered by the indisputability (...)), but a further and different articulation of such contribution, elaborated and offered to the public opinion in the exercise of the free manifestation of thought assured to everyone by art. 21 Constitution (s). In the first letter, sent by Senator Giarrusso on 22 June, the same attached a series of documents, including the oral question of 4 February 2016 concerning the events in Agira. On this point I will summarize the report, pointing out that this question actually came a long time after the facts that were the subject of the complaints against Senator Giarrusso, and even a long time later than the beginning of the judicial activity started following the complaint. From this point of view, the Constitutional Court, in its judgment No 289 of 1998, in paragraph 5.2, stresses the importance of the time-limit in which the parliamentary act takes place. In this regard, the Consultative Committee notes: In contrast, any statement, even considered to be grossly defamatory and - what matters - unrelated to the function or to parliamentary activity, could become unavoidable as a result of the simple submission on a date following the fact of an ad hoc question. In other words, the Court maintains that the Member could easily and unduly evade his responsibilities by presenting an ex post question, i.e. the criminal proceedings initiated. Of course, the rapporteur does not intend to argue that Senator Giarrusso had this attitude, but the Court's judgment makes the Parliamentary act essentially unusable because of the timing in which it was presented in order to demand indisputability. In the present case, in fact, the question was lodged on 4 February 2016, eight months after the complaint that dates back to 24 May 2015. The time link requested by the Court is, therefore, in the case in question not recognizable, both for the circumstance of the posteriority of the parliamentary act in question (in the double aspect of the posteriority with respect to the extra-moenia declaration, dating back to 23 May 2015, as well as with respect to the criminal proceedings activated as a result of it), and for the enormous time span that characterizes this posteriority (about eight months). For these reasons, the Junta proposes, by a majority, to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso do not constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore do not fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u144	I shall refer the document back to another sitting. I take advantage of this opportunity to wish Anna Gotor a welcome, whose arrival delights the home of one of our fellow senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u147	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the urban area Livorno-Collesalvetti-Rosignano has long been hit by economic recession and the consequent loss of jobs which, due to the size and importance of the companies involved, is to be considered not only of regional importance but also of national importance. The large companies present on the territory are gradually abandoning the productive fabric, causing a profound deterioration of the economic system. Yet Livorno has always been the main industrial pole of Tuscany, with a strong presence of heavy industry, metal engineering and shipbuilding. Its is the sixth Italian commercial port and the first of Tuscany and represents an important commercial junction of access to strategic European points for transnational mobility. The profound deindustrialization (amplified especially when the multinationals have replaced the state-owned industries) has produced, in recent years, a large number of unemployed, causing the strategic manufacturing sector to fall further into the abyss. Among other things, the prevailing crisis seems to have turned into an alibi to dismantle workers' rights. The TRW and ENI cases are emblematic in this respect. Many men have lost their jobs and are at risk of losing them, but although the productive sector is shrinking and the investments are becoming smaller, it does not mean that these two multinationals do not produce profits. And so the Livorno economic situation appears at a point of no return, showing how economic crisis, social crisis and political crisis are intimately interconnected. More than 300 shops have closed since early 2014 and the unemployment rate is around 16.1 percent. It cannot be omitted that the Livorno territory was also affected by significant acts of corruption in industrial conversion, in relation to the provision of financing. All this led the Regional Council to ask for the recognition of a complex industrial crisis area and in January 2015 the Government, Regione Toscana and other local authorities signed an agreement that recognized, precisely, "Livorno complex crisis area" like eight other national realities. Requesting the recognition of a complex industrial crisis area should mean making use of extraordinary national funding to address structural needs, employment, redevelopment of the areas concerned and, above all, re-employment of redundant workers. But in practice nothing significant has happened: only orientation frames and not real interventions. What the workers in Livorno are asking loudly, without any real perception, is that there can be a use of public resources and investment in support of workers' needs and needs; that there should be constraints on multinationals to limit redundancies; that there should be transparent and public management of available resources and so on. Mr President, having no more time available, I would ask you to allow me to add the remainder of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u150	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, yesterday I was near Pozzolo Formigaro to defend some land from the illegal expropriation authorized for the construction of the TAV line of the third pass. Also in that reality the police were deployed, but fortunately everything went well from the point of view of public order. On this occasion too there have been exploitations, as always, by the press and newspapers, of the use of the police. While those events were taking place near Novi Ligure, in Pozzolo Formigaro, here in the Chamber the calendarization of the crime of torture was postponed, even in this case exploiting the Forces of order. The examination was postponed on the basis of political agreements, and certainly not for the merit of the law, just as the use of the Forces of Order is exploited, always for political reasons. This intervention, then, serves to clarify that we are tired of these exploitations. We would like Parliament to work to make laws without using the facts that take place outside. This Parliament does not do so because of the clear agreements between Alfano, Zanda and PD, as there have been for civil unions in the past. Only this time maybe there was no one to blame and then it was decided not to pass a piece of law, such as the one on the crime of torture, making absurd excuses about the limits that would have imposed on police interventions, because the victims of Bolzano, Diaz, Aldrovandi, Uva or Cucchi are obviously less important than the agreements with Alfano, Schifani, Verdini and Zanda. Maybe they're less important than civil rights. It is a law that we have been waiting for thirty years and this Parliament has behaved disgustingly - let me say this, President - because once again we have not seen a law voted in Parliament, as we could have done at other times. You have witnessed this and you have also been welcome, Mr President, your work - I thank you for that - but this time we have really made a painful figure, given that the victims have been waiting for justice for many years. I appeal to you and everyone to stop using the police - marginal issues - to really dedicate themselves to the good of the country, to the good of the forces of order, but also to the citizens who have been harassed by police officials who muddle the name of the police itself and are not part of it from our point of view, and are often put there - look a bit'- by politics, as well as by the Interior Minister Alfano, which is an international shame. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u153	THE COURT (PD). Mr President, about two hours ago Max Fanelli left us: warrior of Senigallia, sick of ALS, he left after a long illness and a progressive paralysis that took away the possibility of using his body, if not the use of an eye with which he communicated. Max died at fifty-six in his Senigallia. When, during an initiative of his charity for children's rights, the cord of a helium balloon escaped from his hand, he discovered that he had ALS. He never let himself be brought down by the degenerate disease and instead invested body and soul in a battle for all, that battle spread with the hashtag "iostoconMax" to achieve a good law on the end of life, that gives citizens full freedom of choice on themselves, on their lives and on their own death. As happened to Luca Coscioni, to Piergiorgio Welby, to many, too many other people, Max left without receiving an answer from the political class that continues to hold people's human rights hostage. The opening of a discussion on a law on the end of life was perhaps the only appeal of the President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano totally ignored by the Chambers. Let's hear from Max's widow, Monica, the sick who ask to be able to decide until the end of their lives, the more than 60,000 signatories of the law of popular initiative on the rejection of health treatments and the lawfulness of euthanasia, the warmth of a policy capable of addressing the great issues of people's rights. We dedicate a good law to Max, to those who are no longer there, to those who are forced to add to his sufferings the powerlessness of not being master of their own destiny and of not being able to decide their own life. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u156	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak in order to remain with the acts which I accidentally supported the request for a secret vote on the proceedings concerning former Senator Berlusconi. I have already pointed out that this was a mere technical error and I hope it will be recorded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-663.ana.u157	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.10 a.m.
