ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 24 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2611, already approved by the House of Deputies. I call the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Tonini, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u5	Mr President, the 5th Commission has finished its work this night without the mandate to the rapporteur, and so I am here to report back to you. The Commission has concluded by expressing a feeling of regret, which I must say has united all the Groups, and also the Government, for not having been able to carry out a complete reading of the draft budget law. This regret is accentuated by the fact that the second examination of the draft budget law is always the most important one, the one in which the Government, the majority and the oppositions discover all their cards and try to produce the text that will then be final. In fact, I remember that the third exam is always a simple step. Therefore, in this draft budget law and in this budgetary session there is certainly no part that should have been the contribution of this branch of Parliament. On the part of the oppositions this element was understandably loaded with aspects of a controversial and critical type towards the Government and the majority, while on the part of the majority and the Government it was objected that in a context of a crisis of government, politically already open, it would be difficult to understand a debate of merit in which Parliament lacks the essential interlocutor from the constitutional point of view: the Government, precisely. During our work, some 1,000 amendments were tabled by the various groups, especially by the opposition groups and a number of agendas. As far as agendas are concerned, it was agreed, both by the representatives of the Groups and by the Government, that there would be no point in engaging an executive on this or on that subject which is actually already resigning. It was therefore decided by mutual agreement to accept them as a recommendation, to be transmitted obviously to the government that will be there when the Chambers give confidence to a new Executive. On the other hand, as regards the examination of the amendments, a pragmatic proposal was put forward in the evening by Senator Comaroli of the League Group - which was shared by representatives of all the other Groups - which in some way took note of the impossibility of carrying out an examination and a vote on all the amendments. It was agreed, therefore, that it would not be possible to conclude our work with a mandate to the rapporteur, and on the other hand, the opposition groups did not insist on the vote, which would then have been an unnecessary exercise, either because of the timetable for the work of the House, or because the question of trust has already been announced and therefore the amendments would have fallen. This agreement concluded the work of the Budget Commission at about 23 p.m. this night.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Tonini's report, bill No 2611, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so. [[Comments of the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of trust in the approval without amendments, sub-amendments and additional articles of Article 1 of Law No 2611 of the Budget of the State for the financial year 2017 and the multiannual budget for the three-year period 2017-2019, in the text identical to that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Comments from the M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u8	Quiet, colleagues. The Presidency notes the position of the matter of confidence on the adoption of Article 1 of Law No 2611, in the same text as that approved by the House of Deputies. She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u9	That's nice, Mr. President. I'm sorry that Minister Boschi is leaving, because I wanted to have the last conversation with this government. I would like to remind you that this draft budget law has not been read by anyone, because there has been no time. The question of trust was then raised, as this Government has always done in this House, and we hope that they will stop now. I would like to explain two things about what is happening in Europe and also in Italy, because perhaps someone has lost their connection with the outside world. JP Morgan's latest report, that of November, which refers to alleged anti-political winds that continue to worry Europe, explained well that the ECB was buying German and not Italian government bonds, so it was normal for the spread to increase. In the same report it was also written that if he had won the no - and I want to read the exact words, so we can speak calmly today - this could have led to an increase in social instability in other European countries that are already experiencing strong resistance to change on the eve of major elections in 2017. I would therefore like the President emeritus Giorgio Napolitano, who was the maneuverer of this Government, to report to the House even if there is no government and to answer if he really did the interests of the country or those of Freemasonry in those nine years. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u10	Senator, please don't depart from the issues we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u11	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u12	Mr President, today the life of a government that has represented a case of school to understand how in its own activity it is profoundly wrong to proceed with arrogance, arrogance and presumption. This attitude was taken from the first to the last day of activity: I remember the intervention made by the President of the Council in this House for his installation, with his hands in his pocket and turned to the gallery, ridiculing this House. This attitude then continued during the parliamentary term, imposing on Parliament an amendment to change the Constitution which has been passed among thousands of forcings, by purchasing, by means of miraculous promises, many Members of Parliament. Even the measure we are debating today, the draft budget law 2017, proceeds in its course without any discussion in the Commission, yet we are only in early December and there would have been plenty of time to make changes and corrections, to discuss amendments that would be absolutely necessary to make the draft budget law as correct as possible; instead, we are here today to vote on this measure with confidence. I have to say that in ten years of parliamentary activity, even as a member of the Budget Commission, I have never seen a crappy financial maneuver like the one you are about to approve. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] In fact, the text had been prepared to win the vote of distracted Italians, to bring maximum consent to the referendum on December 4, which you then know how it ended, forcing the government to resign. In my opinion, the government that will come will have to revoke this measure, because it is uncovered and will blow the state accounts. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u13	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u14	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u15	Mr President, we in the 5 Star Movement strongly wanted to embrace a real responsibility towards this country and decided not to introduce anyone from the more than a thousand amendments that we had in mind and had prepared, because we want to approve this draft budget law with the hope that we will immediately go to new elections in order to correct it all, because it is all wrong. This Government, which has been founded on a series of audience lies, has instead been severely punished by the Italian people in the exercise of their responsibilities, but what I would like to fix during this speech is the very heavy legacy that leave us the lies and chatter of the Renzi Government. It begins with the stability law of last year that leaves us in inheritance, for 1 January 2017, fierce cuts to the Regions and health: it will be 4 billion next year and 5 billion in 2018 and 2019. But there will surely be a government that, at last, instead of thinking about lobbying and banks (especially banks, where it administers the Minister of Boschi Reforms), will think about the health and the good of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The government has come to the South to promise seas and mountains, billions of euros that even in the eighties there was such a clientelism! But also my southern fellow citizens raised their heads and straight backs told you no. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have plundered the South, you have decontributioned it, you have made it with the electoral tips taken from the Development and Cohesion Fund, which 80% is destined for the South: you have taken it and robbed it, even for the decontribution that has been for the benefit of the very large companies. It was easy then to go on TV with Marchionne to tell how good this entrepreneur is, with 16 billion aid taken from general taxation, but above all from the South. We do not want such a government, we do not want a Premier who, still under check and bitterly defeated, publishes the umpteenth slide saying that the public debt has decreased: from 1871 to today we have reached the peak of the debt-to-GDP ratio, which has broken down 132.8%. We are saying that we have reached the maximum limit. He, with his slides, said that in August and September the public debt would decrease, when they have actually done nothing but incoct cash cash holdings to make yet another announcement. Actually what leaves us in inheritance are 100 billion new public debt made only for bonuses. This was an extremely technical government. We had a Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance who was wanted by the International Monetary Fund and the banks. We had a Premier who was financed, through flexibility, to make electoral tips by an extremely political European Commission that wanted to stop populism and wanted to stop the people, but did not make it. Now you have to go home immediately. It is the people who asked for it, it is no longer just the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It was really disappointing to see for the umpteenth time the promises on the children of Taranto betrayed, the tips given to De Luca not repealed, because at least this Government could leave with a minimum of decency and with less shame, with a little more modesty, but it could not even do this. This government did not lower its taxes, but only favored the banks: it brought the deductibility of the losses on loans from eighteen years to one year. With this majority, first with the Letta Government and then with the Renzi Government, the entire Democratic Party is responsible for this failure: not only Renzi, but all the senators and MPs of the Democratic Party who have bent and have said yes to all these favors to banks and large companies, to the looting of the South, to the looting of artisan enterprises and small enterprises. The entire Democratic Party is responsible for this umpteenth thunder. We have therefore tabled a few amendments and no agendas responsibly, because this Government is not our interlocutor and we want it to immediately resign. We will therefore vote no to the financial manoeuvre under consideration. We shall also vote no for another huge reason. This government had hanged our country to promises that are held only on the increase of VAT and on those safeguard clauses that have been carried out with an increasingly heavy load. The Renzi Government had foreseen an increase in VAT of more than 20 billion euros since 1 January 2018. Building renovations and all the investments made on schools, research, development and business aid were planned from 2018 onwards, when no more flexibility could be required. They put our country on the corner, but luckily the people raised their heads. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We will have a new government and a new majority and all this will be fixed. Just make an anti-corruption law and stop doing favors to friends' friends; really eliminate waste and not make vicious cuts to health care like those that have been operated on; make a good school that looks to the future by immediately repealing that shitty reform. Doing all this means giving air to the country, removing it from this hood of the so-called magic lily under which it has put us in the last three years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We must free ourselves and it is the people who have called for liberation from this Government, saying no to that constitutional reform and thus expressing a political vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u16	Senator Augello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget law under consideration has far-reaching roots and concludes a parable which has opened in this House with a forgetable speech, the first fact in the Senate by the President of the Council, which I think we all remember: from the chair of President of the Council, Matteo Renzi addressed us all with his hands in his pocket, telling us that, besides his hands, he also had a great project in his pocket which consisted essentially in raking the Senate to the ground and in putting in place the reform judged by the Italians. Why do you have to start reading the budget bill from there? That day we all understood that in that circumstance, in which we wanted to give the country a normal government of broad understanding which, as Germany and other European nations did, allowed us to face a very difficult period of conjuncture, lacked an essential element. I am referring to the presence of a leader who is up to the task and capable of grasping the good will of the Italians, who accepted an unelected President, but above all of the various forces that, in good faith and without even asking for a little bit of government (I speak of many parliamentarians like myself), were willing to make a truce to change the situation. They've been fighting other ways. That speech made us realize that it would be very difficult to pursue that prospect. That speech had a collodian taste, as it remembered a little 'those teenage characters described by Collodi: Redimibile pinocchio, irrediminable Lucignolo. It seemed, unfortunately, a speech from Lucignolo and the facts proved this to be right. This maneuver is the daughter of that logic, because having the President-in-Office of the Council throw himself all over this referendum - even with little political foresight - the lever he has set to try to get that consensus, which was not there in the country, is all contained in the financial maneuver under consideration. This is the maneuver in which the spectre of favours is stirred up for De Luca, it is the maneuver that eats at once all our remaining flexibility, and it is the maneuver that we will have to retouch in March, because it has problems of covering. This is the maneuver that allowed daily friends to shake, day by day, tips, bestowals and promises, which also did not grasp the spirit of the country and the tension in it. Our accounts are soon made: we have 15 billion euros of declared debt, which exhaust our flexibility margin and already at the first quarterly we will have the certainty that we have to put our hands back on covers as "bubbly" as unverifiable at this time and unfortunately verifiable from here to three months. Then there is the second grotesque aspect of the maneuver under consideration. Some of these promises, perhaps the least visible ones on the headlines, in the reading of the Chamber of Deputies remain elusive, due to a rather constipated process, in which some confusion is made: the rule on ISTAT's precarious and the solemn promises made at the press conference to the local police for the return of the compensation for the causes of service are lost, the Ilva's money is lost. In short, a whole series of subjects that should have come to the Senate exam are left on the streets. At this point we arrive at the referendum and, as was clear to all, are defeated, perhaps even more striking in this matter than expected, the President of the Council and the messy reform that had been brought to this House. Then, with an impromptuness - which has a kinship with those hands in the pocket of the first speech made to the Senate - on the same night, at midnight, the President of the Council, with the financial maneuver open, forgets - he must then remind him of the Head of State - that a government in office, even if the President of the Council was Grimilde, the witch of Snow White in love with her image in the mirror, should close the financial before resigning. In a normal country it is obvious to anyone, but it is not to the President of the Council, who resigns at midnight with a speech - also very far from the announcements he had previously made, in which he seemed to want to make a choice on the model of the one made by Cameron in Britain instead of what he is doing in these hours - and leaves to the President of the Republic Mattarella the embarrassing task of having to remind him that the financial maneuvers do not leave open. At this point we return to this Chamber and we are told that it would be quite paradoxical that a government that has resigned - which is not, however, until it resigns before the President of the Republic - would discuss and improve its stability manoeuvre, expressing opinions as if it were a normal government; and the great response that would solve this embarrassing situation is that a government that has resigned puts trust: Mr President, a government that has resigned puts trust! That is the logic that leads us to today's morning. It is clear that when you have paradoxical leaders, colleagues of the majority, you have to come to a paradox: it was a paradox to answer amendment by amendment; it is an even greater paradox to ask for confidence to resign. All these paradoxes, however, give us a frankly difficult situation, if not a financial one, if we have to give a technical judgment on the maneuver under consideration. On the other hand, I do not want to say that the markets celebrate the defeat of the yes or the resignation of the President of the Council, because I would be ingenious, but there will be a reason if the stock exchange, having partially taken the idea that the no could win and that there was a crisis of government, has recovered from two to four points in the last two days and if the spread has gone down. This shows that the judgment of the markets on the activity of this Government is not what has been told us for a couple of months before this referendum campaign. The basic point is that not only do we dismiss a bad maneuver, but - paradox in the paradox - when the country decides that the constitutional system remains bicameral and that the Senate has a role in the evaluation of the laws and above all of the main law, which is obviously the one linked to the economic and financial stability of the country, the paradox is that the Senate is prevented from correcting this law, because it must be run to tell the leadership of the Democratic Party that if Armageddon in the markets and in the exchanges there has not been, we will try to obtain it with a car, going to vote in thirty days, if I understand well, we do not know well how and I do not even know with which electoral law. It is a sign of dramatic immaturity of the political class, it is a sign of dramatic infantilism, of provincialism. These are things that the mayors of the small countries do, those who convince themselves that they have become podestà because in a moment of weakness of that municipality they were rewarded by an electoral vote. Our case, from a psychiatric point of view, is more serious because the government has not even been rewarded by the electoral vote. This is the subject with which we are measuring ourselves, this is the figure with which this experience of Government ends. I believe that in the contrary vote that we are about to express in this Chamber there is much more than a technical evaluation: there is the definitive seal, given by this country with an unappealing judgment, on the fact that with this type of immaturity and political and general inculturation you cannot govern a modern country. I shall conclude by making a further comment. It is not so much a matter of losing the opportunity to give a more decent show, instead of making a budget law that recalls those financial manoeuvres that took place in the eighties just before the elections: we missed the opportunity - and I really regret this and should, alas, regret the whole country - to have some flexibility after this manoeuvre, which we now no longer have. That is the point: I believe that no one, until two years ago, would ever have thought of bringing us back into such a state of budgetary rigidity caused by the dispersive and rainy spread of the few resources we had to make more serious maneuvers. I should also like to conclude by saying that after so many discussions and discussions on spending cuts, this draft budget law confirms the inability of the political class that has ruled over the last thousand days to tackle this prospect with a glimmer of concreteness, dear to all of us in the Budget Commission. We have talked many times about these possibilities. All of this is rag paper. The past closes today: they have been a thousand days full of errors, prosopopopea and arrogance. The future, now, as soon as possible but without risking being ridiculous (therefore, with a decent electoral law and obviously waiting for the Council), we entrust it to the voters who have shown us, with this referendum, of greater wisdom of the political class that they normally express. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Azzollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u18	Mr President, I must especially thank my group for making the unforgivable mistake of giving me seven minutes to speak. Instead, to meet the wishes of the Conference of Leaders, I hope to keep myself between the six minutes and forty-six seconds and the six minutes and forty-eight seconds so, at least, I will give a few dozen seconds that could be useful for the work that awaits us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you've already lost 30 seconds. Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). President, that's okay. I'll only use six minutes and eighteen seconds. I say this with slight but not superficial irony, because I felt really irritating the time limit and the modalities of discussion given to the Senate for the examination of the draft budget law, in particular after the expression of the popular vote and, of course, after it was imposed, as always in the second readings, an important and serious amending discussion to bring a serious maneuver to the end. The thirty seconds, Mr President, have allowed me not to repeat what Senator Augello has already said, which has been very precise; the alternative path was simple: the government could resign after the end of the procedure of the draft budget law. If I can, I can also be ironic, and not just irritated, Mr President. Last night, in fact, there was evidence, within the Budget Committee, of a great sense of responsibility. And if the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers had at some time really been informed about the way in which the work is carried out there, he would have known well that, fixed by the Budget Committee and the Senate Assembly, which she presided over, the specific dates by which the work was to be completed, the time limits would have been respected as always. And one could well, quietly, end up like that. I am well aware of the debate by the President of the Commission and all the senators and the Government, in the House of the Budget Commission, which again comforts me, first of all, on the goodness of the popular choice and then on the institutional vulnus which, once again, has been accomplished. However, by paraphrasing the President-in-Office's first sentence, after having completed the first vulnus on the first day he appeared in this Chamber, fortunately for him this is the last vulnus he inflicted on the Senate institution, at the will of the people. Mr President, this is a very serious matter. There are all the resources within this institution, throughout Parliament, from the President of the Senate to the Presidents of the Commissions, to all the senators, so that it is always respected and rid itself of the blanket of lies - lying instead, public - about the ways and terms of work in Parliament's classrooms, and the Senate in particular. I hope that, starting from the first law of the new government, we will return to an orderly, serious and thoughtful way of making the rules, which I really believe is necessary. I shall finish with one joke and then with one comment on the subject, Mr President. If you wanted to prove that the Senate is efficient in doing everything in a matter of hours, let's prove that, too. To say that even Usain Bolt, in relation to the times that were assigned to us, would have had some doubt about the possibility of respecting them. The Senate of the Republic will respect them, because here remains firm the sense of the institutions and the need to lead the nation always in an orderly way towards the proposed objectives. Mr President, I would like to pay tribute to you, who is our President, to the fact that this is a matter for the whole of this House and is of great importance and importance. Of course, Mr President, I (which I do not know about certain matters) was told to worry about the markets. I did not understand, however, what such markets were and I said to myself: if they are financial ones, it has already been demonstrated twice in recent time as the forecasts of columnist - I don't know what they are - and analysts have been resoundingly denied. So, if I were to deny it a first time, I couldn't even think that they would endure again. And then they were denied the second time and I didn't think they would last the third time. I then turned to local markets or to others. But in the morning of Monday everything worked regularly and, even, they tell me that the markets work well. Mr President, this way of trying to influence Parliament's work is not only unacceptable from an institutional point of view, but above all it has no response. Let me leave Parliament to work and then the other components of society, including the financial markets, will assess, from their point of view, what the consequences of our work are. But this is worth ex post and never can be worth ex ante, as form of conditioning. It must never again be a conditioning of any kind. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that, even if we cannot go into the draft budget law in question, the legacy left by the government in it is summed up by some data, which will certainly have to be read, and we will have to follow the action of the next government. When this Government established itself, in its first 2014 Document of Economy and Finance for 2017, it had foreseen a deficit, i.e. net debt, of less than 0.2. For 2018, then, this nation would not have had a debt but would even have turned out to be a plus 0.2; therefore, this Government aimed to heal the country - I would say radically - from the point of view of the public accounts. In the document of economy and finance, which we recently approved, instead, for 2017 debt is less 2,3, which - you know - then became less 2,4, that is worse than two points, and for 2018 less 1,2. Since historically the programmatic data is better than the final ones, you can understand with what kind of public finance this government leaves us, beyond all the chatter made in the talk shows on TV. We have a difficult situation and above all, Mr President, the public debt, which is the real problem that then directs the whole extra-parliamentary context, goes in 2017 to 132.6 percent of GDP, in spite of what the Government said when it presented itself in 2014, namely that in 2017 it would be 125.1 percent of GDP. And, therefore, not only does it get worse in percentage but, if we translate it into absolute value, we are over 100 billion more debt. I would like to remind ourselves that debt is a cash size and, therefore, results in the issuance of government bonds and, therefore, in fears. We, all together, are a great nation and we believe that this data can be dealt with by less convulsive, less screaming, less yelling, more serene, more serious, more thoughtful policies. In this way we can make a serious contribution, with regard to our part, to the resumption of our Italy, to a new relationship with the European institutions and the great problems that we have at the moment, first of all that of credit institutions, which must be approached in a serene and serious way by the Government, for the part of its competence, but which has immediate and important repercussions on all other operators in the financial context. Mr President, I leave only these reflections, since it was impossible for us to enter into the substance of the draft budget law, and with the few institutional considerations and the large aggregates of the maneuver, on which the Senate will vote today, we can only vote against it. [[Applause from Senator Di Maggio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u19	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u20	Mr President, representatives of the Government, we find it paradoxical to have to debate and give confidence to a government that has already been declared in due course, without being able to touch at all on a text that would really need many changes. The draft budget law under consideration was written merely on the basis of the electoral campaign (it is full of gifts), but you have not been able to deceive anyone anymore. Our citizens have shown that they are wiser than their ruling and political class. And, in fact, they rejected your reform that - according to the government - would heal all the evils of the country. You have been told that there is absolutely no need to speed up the legislative process but, if anything, to raise the quality level of the world of making laws and what we have ahead is the typical example: we very often legislate in this House to correct errors contained in laws made quickly in the other branch. Basically, we do not need new laws, but good laws. This is definitely not a good law. Its electoral purpose is all too obvious and, incidentally, we tell you that it is not a gift to have lowered the RAI fee from 100 to 90 euros, but it is simply a remedy to a scam that you did last year when you brought it from 117 to 100 euros and put it into the bill, then making all Italians pay even 22% of VAT. Now you're just returning a portion of what was taken away earlier. You know very well that by law interventions of a sectoral or localistic nature cannot be included in the budget bill and, on the other hand, the text is full of tips and tips. It is a beautiful maneuver of electoral clientelism. If you didn't understand or if Renzi didn't understand it, the Italians told him that he can't buy their electoral consent forever. An old adage, which Renzi probably doesn't know, says that you can cheat a lot of people for a short time or you can cheat a few people for a long time, but you can't cheat a lot of people for a long time. And here - alas - Renzi failed. If he'd read some of the old popular stunts, he wouldn't have made that mistake. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I come to other mistakes. Some of the government's proponents of yes even wanted to say that the no-side won because it went to vote for the less educated part of the country. Well, that less educated part gave you a lectio magistralis, dear professors: in fact, he told you that he does not want such a filthy and arrogant political leadership and that he must go home. Keep your feet on the ground. You have left us with a disastrous economic situation and, among other things, the impossibility of going to the elections because of a wrong electoral law that you wanted. In addition, the famous less educated have told you that they can no more than a government of spoiled little girls and little girls. And I remind you that this part of the population gets up every day to go to work. It is that part of the country that will pay at least two thirds of the costs of this manoeuvre made in deficit. They are the poorest Italians who can no longer pay for health care, who often go to eat at Caritas and cannot afford the house and kindergartens. On the facts of Rome there was no political speculation. We read in the newspapers of citizens of the same neighborhood and the same palace who defended an Italian who lost his job, who was kicked out of his own house with a dependent son to make room for immigrants. Perhaps also in this case Renzi has understood little of the dynamics that a large population lives. He keeps telling us that GDP is growing, but we see that one in four Italians is slipping into poverty. Renzi continues to put money in reception policies, to the point of asking for more flexibility in Europe. Too bad integration policies have miserably failed. Merkel herself, who has just been re-elected to her party's congress these days, has had to say that it cannot be passed on to local culture. In Germany there is German law and not Sharia and the reception policies must respect without rules, the German laws. Merkel figured it out, too. The government and its president haven't figured it out. Today a struggle has taken place between the poor for survival and the facts of Rome tell you. Renzi should have wondered why Italians continue not to have children, despite continuing to say that he gives bonuses to mothers and babies, they continue to be more precarious, poorer than the previous generation and, even, to abandon affections and grandchildren to live abroad, because with hunger pensions in Italy they can no longer make it. The Premier probably didn't ask these questions: he continues to wave the excellence of his laws and doesn't realize that implicitly, having made great reforms and many beautiful things with ordinary legislation, one doesn't understand what it was for to reform the Constitution. We believe that democracy really saved this country from a government that for more than two years has not seen and has not wanted to see beyond its nose. Therefore, to the part of the citizens who voted, we would like to thank you very much, because today we can say no to this ugly draft budget law and we can only say no to the umpteenth trust placed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u21	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, they make us believe that it is we who choose, but in reality every line of this act is nothing more than the result of the enslavement of the State to the European budgetary constraints, which have totally deprived us of our sovereignty in favour of the markets. On the other hand, it is our own government that, in its report to the constitutional bill, confesses that in recent years undefined forces have imposed the transformation of our own form of state and therefore everything else must now be marked by this unlawful transformation. To quote the whole sentence: There is a need to adapt the internal system to the recent evolution of European economic governance and its strict budgetary rules. You think it's the same government that calls them tight. And who would benefit from these strict rules? Certainly not to the Italian people, considering that in the bill of budget for the fight against poverty have been allocated only 500 million and that from 2019 they will fall to 300; Whereas one in three minors is at risk of poverty and social exclusion; Whereas in our country the percentage of young people who abandon their studies stopping at the average license exceeds the European average. Even public investment for the next three years is at the lowest level ever (2.2% of GDP) and it is clear that it is precisely this type of investment that is acting as a multiplier of economic growth. You can't even entrench behind the slogan that taxes have decreased, because ISTAT itself said that tax pressure has increased as well in 2017, and there will be a likely increase in VAT over 26 percent in 2019. It is a government that boasts so much that it wants to give a strong weight to the local autonomy and then it turns out that, to see, the Regions will have 600 million less to provide for their health sector. Only a few crumbs of begging is found here and there, while a voice of spending never disappears and it is state funding to private schools. On the contrary, one-off bonuses are provided, the classic rain finance, without having a broad overview and investing, instead, in a system of socio-educational services that can really make a difference. It is a maneuver worth EUR 27 billion of which more than EUR 10 billion are in deficit. So, if the people get out of it suffering, poor, burdened by cuts in school and health care, and if public investment fails to take off with so much harmful consequences on the economy, who exactly would benefit the "close policies"? Hence I have the doubt that the main players are only the big financial markets, because European neoliberal policies must always have the upper hand; policies that have impoverished our society, depressed the economy and have not solved at all the problem of public debt, which has even increased. Not only are we deprived of the power of maneuvering, but we will not even be able to actually discuss this maneuver because of a fantastic technical confidence, with the only result that there will be no room for change and the senators will not be able to make spokesperson of the demands of the people, which is what our mandate is based on. Parliament is being expropriated from its functions with confidence, for the sake of change. Everything that had remained unsolved in the Chamber will remain and all the beautiful promises made by the Premier that should have merged into the aforementioned act will remain what they have always been from the beginning: propaganda, a propaganda that has always been based on data of unrealistic growth, made even more damaging by the cancellation of safeguard clauses. There is no mention of the heavy deindustrialisation that has produced a large number of unemployed in recent years, causing the strategic manufacturing sector to plummet more and more towards the abyss. On the contrary, the prevailing crisis has served as an alibi to dismantle workers' rights, while what the people really demand is that there may be a profit, of resources, of public investment in support of workers' needs. Let us think, for example, of the conversion of industrial areas in disuse, of underpaid work and of precarious work. In Italy there is an area of industrial crisis that counts a nice piece of local production that is scientifically abandoned in the silence of the institutions. There are only crumbs for the South, except for a few tips here and there, no expansive politics. On the contrary, there is a further push for the precariousness of the market and labour, but no growth and no reform of the pension system. And then, finally, I can only talk about what is the ESM; it is certain that if we had not contributed with a disbursement of EUR 125 billion for the share that Italy must pay for the establishment of the ESM, maintaining our sovereign power of self-management, many deficiencies could have been cured. And it is not just that 125 billion that weighs, but the fact that, without the necessary liquidity, we will certainly go into debt more and more. I would therefore say that more than a "state-saving fund" is a "state-sinking fund." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Langella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget law we are dealing with today has begun its process in the House, where it has been approved by the Government with the imposition of confidence, with the clear conviction that here in the Senate it would have been possible to give proper completion to a text which, in all evidence, appears to be incomplete and certainly not up to the point of being able to define a good budget law. The outcome of the referendum on 4 December has now generated such a disproportionate fibrillation that even in the Senate the government is going to put its trust, frustrating any attempt to improve the text. Now, while we are responsibly aware of the need for the moment (which is to prevent the possibility of provisional exercise) and also in the light of the announced resignation of the President-in-Office of the Council, we cannot fail to say that the best thing would have been to avoid technical confidence and it would have been better to give this House a few more days to make the necessary changes that would have made the text more acceptable and able to meet the needs and expectations of citizens. It seems to us that the use of technical trust is not a good method of working, especially when it constitutes an epilogue at all calculated. That was not what Members of the House expected when they decided to vote for the confidence in the first step. In fact, they knew, believed and trusted that the text would be improved in the Senate. So, Mr President, as has already been said several times in this House yesterday, we are here with a defective text, with an unjustified haste, with the risk of enacting a budget law that could potentially contain errors is certainly not what we wanted. There is no doubt that the informal constitutional changes, which are produced in order to stem the phenomena of obstructionism, mean that the requirement of sharing, which - in our view - is a value and not an annoyance, is lacking. Well, with the imposition of technical confidence, it seems to me that we want not only to speed up Parliament's work unnecessaryly, but also to expressly avoid, once again, sharing the content of this draft budget law. However, let us consider how the vote of 4 December has shown the disapproval that the people have towards the compression of parliamentary representation. The Senate elected by the people was considered a value. The reform was presented as an operation to reduce the costs of politics: instead, it was read by the people as a reduction of the spaces of democracy. Now, if Parliament continues to subtract its legislative function by shifting the centrality of the formation of laws from Parliament to the Government (in this case, with the Commission's maxi-amendment), we do not go in the direction indicated by the citizens, whose will we must be respectful of. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are faced with an anomalous condition which, progressively, has invaded parliamentary life, with the complicity of all those who have exasperated the concept of 'governability', to the detriment of the role of Parliament and democracy. Certainly the radical change in Italian politics over the last twenty years can only reverberate on parliamentary democracy. However, to accompany this change on the part of Parliament without consolidating new functions that balance those forced to a compression, as in the case of the functions of direction and control, means to condemn the parliamentary function, directly connected with the feeling and quality of democracy of a nation, to a decline without return. That is why we would have liked this budget law to have been treated differently. That is why we would have liked Parliament's prerogatives not to have been compressed once more. But what do you think? Is it thought that this Senate is so short of responsibility that we risk our country's provisional exercise? I'm sure it wouldn't have happened. With a few more days and working hard, I believe that the Budget Commission could have dismissed a better and more shared text but, above all, a text with which to respond to emergencies, the solution of which had already been promised in Montecitorio. This is the case - for example - of the Sicilian precarious who, from 1 January, in the absence of an extension, will go home, putting in serious difficulty also the operation of many public bodies. Yet it was promised that, with the passage of the budget law into the Senate, the problem would be solved. How do you plan to deal with the drama of 22,000 families now? Unfortunately, we will have to be content with the lame fruit of technical trust. Too bad! It is also a wasted opportunity to give an adequate response to the eloquent signal that the people transmitted to us on Sunday. People want democracy, they want to participate and they want to exercise it through their representatives, for whom they ask for space, flexibility, freedom of movement and the possibility of transferring their requests to Parliament: all things that, unfortunately - I must say bitterly - will be foreclosed today. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u24	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u25	Mr President, the Northern League Group has never voted for this Government and of course it will not do so on this occasion either. It is paradoxical to address today a discussion on trust in support of a government resigned, which has been distrusted and rejected by the Italians. I would like to make it clear that the responsibility for the current situation of uncertainty lies with one person: the current President of the Council who resigned Matteo Renzi. It was he who, in 2014, wanted to change the President of the Council, taking his place. It was he who wanted to launch a constitutional reform in a single sense, imposing through the Government to Parliament a law that divided the country. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]] It was he who created a chaos at the level of electoral laws, effectively preventing a clear situation, in view of the forthcoming elections. It was he who decided to hold the referendum in full budgetary session. Let it be clear, therefore, to all Italians who, if we are in this emergency situation, is not because the people rejected Renzi, but because Renzi proved himself to be an irresponsible President of the Council. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The responsibility lies entirely with President Renzi and the Democratic Party, who has always indulged him in his delusions of omnipotence and in his delusions of greatness. And how did Renzi rule? He ruled, thinking he could buy consent, buy it with bonuses, tips, De Luca's exchange vote, arrogance. But the citizens have rejected this method of government. And, in view of his proposal to simplify democracy with his commitment to reduce the so-called costs of politics and in return to obtain a full mandate from the citizens without allowing them to elect their own representatives, the people replied no. He does not want to be bought by Renzi, because his voting right is not for sale and he expressed it in the referendaria consultation. What leaves Renzi at the end of this long experience of a thousand days? Renzi leaves us 106 billion more public debt, because the attempt to buy the consent of the Italians represented a cost for all of us and for future generations. The President of the Council leaves a country on its knees, beyond the propaganda with which he tried to obscure the reality in the thousand days: a migratory situation out of control - and I do not think anyone can deny it - a banking system collapsed, with very serious immediate risks; unemployment skyrocketing; so much, too much suffering in Italian families. This is what leaves Matthew Renzi in the country: angry young people without confidence in the future, pensioners who are afraid of losing their savings and their own certainties. This is the legacy of the Renzi Government: an Italian society on its knees. Mr President, the experience of a government which has not been elected by its citizens, but which has been distrusted by its citizens, therefore ends. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is a truly paradoxical situation: he did not have a mandate to govern, but on December 4 he had a sound rejection. I think it's a unique case in republican history. The country said clearly: enough Renzi! And finally we say for the last time: enough Renzi! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In conclusion, Mr President, we ask that this five-year chapter in which governments have moved on through palace games be closed; the word now passes to the people as soon as possible; the citizens return to being the protagonists of our democracy with the only democratic and legitimate way, which can make the next government really represent them, i.e. through the vote. No more Renzi! Now to the vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u26	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u27	Mr President, the concept of technical trust is a bit strange and gives the idea of trying to put something in some way that is not in the rules, because it is outside the world that a government that has resigned asks for confidence in Parliament. In recent years the Renzi government has ruled the country by driving a bus as if it were a wasp. And, therefore, it was normal for him to go banging, because he did not want to take into account the many voices that in recent years demanded a different management of the problems: voices within his own party and voices spread in the country. I am going back to saying that this epilogue is a bit grotesque: a government that resigns and asks for confidence to overcome the unscathed evidence of the House gives a sense of how it has acted so far. If the government has confidence, we will now be able to avoid the provisional exercise and, perhaps, we will appear to international investors as a reliable country. We leave, however, a country absolutely to the ground. And I think of the precarious public administration in Sicily, which at the end of the year will not have the opportunity to understand what future they are heading towards, and there are many. Between one category and another, we talk about more than 30,000 people. And, as far as school is concerned, that's a mess, too. I believe, therefore, that the facts of recent times must suggest to all of us one more modesty, a greater humility in dealing with huge problems that certainly have not all been born recently, but that everyone needs care and listening to the country, that listening that in recent years has been denied. Looking at how you are moving these days, I cannot hide some concern, and not - attention - for accounts or banks (which are also important), but for people who have been forgotten, they have been ignored. I am referring to people whom I have met, who have been left in the hands of organised crime by a state that invited them to denounce; I am referring to people who are 40 years old not only without a job, but without a credible prospect of finding one. I am referring to sick people who are denied treatment; I am referring to sick people who are denied diagnosis; I am referring to pregnant women who are denied the opportunity to give birth near home, transferring costs from public finance to private finance. SUSTA (PD). But he's the President of the Region! Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). The President of the Sicilian Region - as some colleagues are reminding me - is of the same party of the Government at national level and has been supported by the same, also because, if he had not supported it, the president Crocetta would not have resisted more than a couple of days in the conditions in which it is found, since it is suspended at a thread. Beyond that, the problem is not only Sicilian. I have had contacts with my fellow countrymen from different regions and I assure you that this majority is not well seen on the territory, of course where it was necessary to stress it, given the results of the referendum, which was political. Attention: many Italians have rejected the attempt to concentrate too much power on the Government and therefore have expressed a conscious vote from the technical point of view. But many Italians understandably said no to a government that - as I mentioned at the beginning - drove the country as if it were a motorcycle, with the same lightness and the same level of responsibility. Now the President of the Council Renzi, who resigned - or almost, we do not understand - has not changed his attitude. And we find confirmation of this in a series of positions that tell us understandably concerned about their future. But to those Italians I was talking about before, those without work, those without care, those who think to retire after forty-four years of work, to the constructions, who will retire when they are no longer able to hold the tools of the trade, who thinks about it? Not Renzi and, I fear, not a good part of the Democratic Party (freely, I think some will think about it). The government did not have to ask for trust; we had to go responsibly to the examination of this bill, facing what the law provides, even the provisional exercise, why not? It is expected: not a technical government, a provisional exercise. It is provided for by the order. This way of silence Parliament, even as the last act of the Government, this way of silence the Senate, of preventing it from carrying out a careful and due analysis of the proposed accounts and solutions is something intrinsically undemocratic and anti-system. This is an intrinsically unpopular choice and I believe this government will pay for it. I would like you to pay today, not gaining confidence, because you do not deserve it from any point of view, but you will certainly pay for it at the next election. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u28	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u29	Mr President, I will spend a few words on the subjects of school, university, research and culture. I am starting from the subject of the school, because in this draft budget law we find yet another piece to try to repair the damage caused by good school: funds allocated for the strengthening of the staff of autonomy, but without it being possible to understand exactly how they will be used. Above all, the Government forgets, once again, the teachers of the rankings when the school of childhood is exhausted, who have already been penalized with the decree-law of May 2016 on the program beautiful schools: I know that the Government had been promised to commit to healing their situation, but this category of teachers will have to wait, as the entire category of teachers in the sector of high artistic and musical formation will have to wait. In fact, despite the fact that the majority forces have shown the will to heal the precarious state of this teaching body, we see nothing in the draft budget law. As for the fields of university and research, the tendency to launch and protect only a few universities is accentuated, from Rome up and control is still in the hands of an evaluator body which, by chance, in this draft budget law is enlarged with respective allocation of funds, while the research remains the change. It is clear, in fact, that the intention of this Government was to introduce in Italy the American model with the power in the hands of the Presidency of the Council and a clear example is that of Human Technopole, a project that has been carried out without a call for competition and without a transparent evaluation: everything is in the hands of a future foundation, we do not know how the researchers will be recruited and we do not know if the project will remain of public utility or if, gradually, it will end up in the hands and between the jaws of the multinationals of the drug. Nothing is known about how genetic data - so-called genomic data - will be managed, which is a big affair, as well as a big data to be managed. Finally, I would like to focus on the cultural sector. Attention: in the draft budget law the Government, with a skilful move, snaps the revenues deriving from the ticketing of the areas of the Colosseum and Pompeii. We speak, together, of 80 million euros, that the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism (MIBACT) snaps, arrogant to itself the right to use the revenues of the ticketing and subtracting these resources, precious for the protection and enhancement not only of the Colosseum and the area of Pompeii but also of the central archaeological area of Rome, Palatine and all the surrounding areas. This means in fact canceling, with an amendment, the Special Superintendences, seriously endangering the autonomy of these sites, to which it was rightly recognized in order to manage autonomously and with own resources the protection and valorization of these archaeological areas and these very important cultural sites. It's a nice and good snitch from the Ministry. Finally, I remember that Ales - Arte Lavoro e Servizi SpA, a participant of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, with an ad hoc regulation will be excluded from the constraints of limiting spending, unlike what happens to other companies included in the list of ISTAT. It is therefore legitimate to think that this ad hoc rule, which will remove Ales from the constraints of containment of expenditure, will only give life to a procedure that sees Ales as a parking lot and a place to satisfy clientele appetites, rather than satisfy its mission, that is the mission to protect and enhance our artistic heritage. This is the budget law that leaves us inherited by the Renzi Government, made not only of "marchettes" but also of "snaps" to the detriment of the school, the university and our beloved culture. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u30	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u31	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the end of the Renzi Government is an opportunity to draw the sums, not only of this draft budget law, but of the economic policy of these thousand days of its Executive. The evaluations on the previous three-year period can be made serenely, because we have the data settled, while the evaluations on the three-year forecast 2017-2019 are subject to the untrustworthy to which we have accustomed the previous estimates of this Government. Moreover, the budgetary manoeuvre in our examination continues exactly in the wake of the previous ones: a total disregard for the holding of public accounts and, on the other hand, extemporaneous and electoral measures. The constitutional referendum could have been voted in October, away from the enactment of spending laws or decrees. Instead, the vote slipped until the beginning of December and this is further proof of how, once again, economic measures were to be used to create easy consensus. It wasn't like that. The country has shown that it does not need tips, bonuses or other one-off measures. On the contrary, it needs conditions that create certainty and confidence, in those who save, in those who invest and in those who consume: all the indicators of these behaviors are at the very least historical. Italy has been lucky enough to benefit from the expansionary monetary policies of the ECB and a quantitative easing able to give, in three years, to our budget more than 24 billion euros of lower burdens on the public debt. Thanks to the action of the Central Bank of Frankfurt, there have also been positive effects on both GDP and primary surplus. In the absence of such interventions, the debt-to-GDP ratio would now be 145%. This indicator, in any case, has settled to the considerable figure of 133 percent, with a stock that, after having reached the historical record of 2,255 billion euros in July, because of the liquid availability of the Treasury has folded to 2,212 billion, in September of 2016: 100 billion euros more than February 2014, 305 more than the Government Berlusconi. We wanted to reiterate these figures because, as has already been pointed out on other occasions, this authentic gift from the Central Bank is about to end. The rising inflation figures in the rest of Europe will not allow Governor Draghi further expansionary policies beyond the middle of next year. Whatever government is set up next year, it will therefore have to deal with a correction of public finances, probably as early as next spring. Just as the decline in confidence in our country is evidenced by the data on the balance of payments of the last year provided by the Bank of Italy: between September 2015 and September 2016 there was a flight of Italian capital abroad for 82.4 billion; at the same time there was a decrease in foreign investment in Italy for 86.6 billion. The result is that 169 billion have fled Italy. Therefore, the markets have shown that they have no confidence in the economic choices of the Renzi Government, choices made of one-off, incoming deficits and outgoing bonuses. Once again, with almost 6.5 billion tax allowances and about 2 billion in advance - twelve years - of the rights of use of telecommunications frequencies, with a deficit of 12 billion, to make more money for the reception of migrants, which was the only real reason for contending with the European Commission and with a vast list of small localistic or micro-sectoral interventions that I avoid to mention so much is long. Retracing the Renzian economic policies, the original sin was precisely the bonus of 80 euros, a completely unfair bestowal from the fiscal and social point of view, made to secure a precise band of voters close to the vote of the European elections. Almost 10 million taxpayers have been content, forgetting the other 30 million, but an act of injustice has been committed, because, first, something must be given to those who have less, then, possibly, give to those who already have an income. I would like to remind you that the minimum pension is fixed at EUR 501 per month, that is to say the old million lire to which President Berlusconi had brought it. Italy needs a tax shock, an important tax reduction, which at the same time widens the tax base, accompanied by an energetic reduction in the cost of the State. In fact, in these three years, the decrease in public expenditure has been borne mainly by the local authorities and the services rendered on the territory. The central state has not substantially diminished its weight, just as the weight of the structure and constraints of public administration, the main brake on the country's growth, has not diminished. The balance of these three years sees, as a result of Renzi's manoeuvres, an increase in expenditure of 42 billion euros and an increase in taxes of 5 billion euros. In particular, current expenditure has increased, which in 2017 is worth 93% of total expenditure, net of interest expenditure. Next year, as a result of the manoeuvre, we reach the record figure of 861 billion, that is 40 billion more than the figure laid down in the 2016 budget, certainly, result of the total weight of the burden of the public debt, but also consequence of the increase of expenditure. Final expenditure increased by 9.4 billion compared to the budget under current legislation. Beyond the proclamations, therefore, there was no reduction in taxes. The data that were presented to us each time concerned a failure to increase taxes, fortunately from time to time averted. In the forecasts of the budget under consideration, revenues increase by 2 billion compared to the forecast budget under current legislation and by almost 6 billion compared to the one laid down in 2016 and this despite the decommissioning of the safeguard clause on VAT that is worth little more than 15 billion. There is still an increase in VAT rates to 25 and 13 per cent from 2018 and even a further increase to 25.9 from 2019. The path followed in 2015 is retraced when safeguard clauses were sterilized for 16.8 billion, averting the increase in VAT and excise duties. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that we can therefore talk at the most about a failure to increase taxes, which the Government itself is planning to increase. These are numbers, written in black and white, worrying. The Italians can now distinguish the lies from the truth, the Renzia's story of an idyllic Italy and the awakening in the difficult everyday reality. The legacy that leaves this government to the country is heavy, because it has failed to secure the public accounts, exploiting the favorable monetary political quotas, because it has not invested on a country that asked to grow and become more modern. Whoever goes to the government will therefore have a difficult task, more difficult than it was in 2014, when the disastrous adventure of an unelected Executive began, of which the Italians will not miss. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u32	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u35	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, thank God we have never seen such a debate on the state's budget law. From the empty benches of the majority we witness a deafening silence. And to say that the majority have the responsibility to have provided this financial programming tool for the country. No one has found the strength, courage, will to be able to express the opinion and explain to this Assembly to the whole country why the dynamics of such a budget law. Budgetary law, beyond propaganda and what is proclaimed and proclaimed through the media, is the real charter of the state in which the country is placed and what is intended to do to overcome the critical points: GDP at 0.8% instead of 1.1 as it had been programmed, the effects it has produced and how it is intended to respond to the needs that, during the past year, have been appaled, as it is intended to get the country out of the bag of crisis, recession and large unemployment. This is the full exemplification of what has beenrenzism in Italy in recent years: so much propaganda, so many proclamations, no substance. What happened last Sunday in the polls, with a very large popular participation in a referendum that was constitutional in nature and that still lingers to read simply as the answer to a constitutional question, is instead the true, strong and determined sign of the failure of the economic policy and employment of this Government. How can we fail to read last Sunday's data as the cry of pain of the weakest sections of our population? How do you not understand? I still hear analysts say that there is a part of the country that has not understood progress, that the forces of conservation have clashed against the forces of progressiveism and looking forward. Do you think that 68 percent of Italians, who went to vote, are all constitutionalist enthusiasts or public law enthusiasts? No. More simply, finally, the Italians, obtained the instrument of the vote, used it to say that they can no more than a government activity that looks at strong financial interests, a government that speaks of good school and realizes the worst school ever in Italy, that speaks of attention to young people and thinks of conquering them with tips instead of planning their future with a plan of occupation and awakening. Can you not see that, starting from Trentino until you reach Portopalo, the percentages of your "yes" were shrinking as the failures of your policies were appaled? Until he arrived at that Agrigento of the Minister of the Interior, who, despite the yes was supported by Ministers, by Presidents of Parliamentary Commissions and the mayors of the cities, gave him an ostentatious 20%, almost to say: but who cares about your constitutional architectures that must serve to increase the power of Renzi, of the Premier, or to reorganize your internal structures of power! There's a country languishing. There's a country in pain. Almost 60% are close to the poverty line. These are the problems. And this budget law, once again, in the wake of the continuity of your policies over the last three years, does not address any of these issues. There is one thing I am pleased about, Mr President, and I believe that you too, because of your belongings and your feelings in the south, will be happy: from last Sunday, no political force will be able to pretend that it does not understand the malaise and the need for a strong resumption of policies in support of the development of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. All political forces in this House are aware of this: regardless of the real political need of the territories, they are lost (and you have resoundingly lost), but in the future they will lose all those who will pretend not to see the suffering of the Italian people, who will pretend not to see an Italy that still walks at double speed, who will pretend not to see or think they can solve the problem by embossing the people, doing the electoral rallies, saying that they will bridge the straits or predicting a rosy future based only on good intentions. No, it will no longer be paved with good intentions the road that will lead to electoral success and therefore to the conquest of the government of this country: the time of seriousness has arrived, the time of the assumption of full responsibility. It is not possible, once again, these days, to watch this double track. I greet the institutional seriousness, the strong attitude that protects us, also in terms of finance (just see the progress of the stock exchanges), the assumption of responsibility of our President of the Republic. Yet, in the face of a responsible and serious attitude, which allows us to go through this very delicate moment with the European institutions, with the world institutions, with the financial operators, in the tranquility of knowing that Italy, in any case, has an authoritative and serious leadership, we are still witnessing the ballets of a Minister of the interior who, by rubbing even the legal studies that belong to it, sends messages without content, such as: "Let's go to the vote!," without electoral law. To chase what? Easy consent. No, gentlemen, no, my friends, no, ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer time for easy consensus and low-cost populism: it is time for accountability. Our country, our Italy today needs each of us to play our own small, great role in overcoming these moments of great difficulty and in ensuring that our presence in the international context, but above all in reference to the needs of our country, can give a responsible, strong and serious response. Returning to our colleges and our homes, how can we not give the sign of understanding? How can we not tell our citizens, our Italians, that the country, the institutions have learned a concrete lesson from the vote? You see, today it seems that there is someone who has won and who has lost, who celebrates and who is in a state of contrition, while the lesson has arrived for everyone. The Italians came back to vote, so it is not true that there was a disaffection for the vote. There was disaffection with regard to a policy that was too much chat, too much talk, that could not produce solutions for problems. As soon as the Italians were able to understand that their yes or no had an immediate effect, that of safeguarding a democratic system and their popular sovereignty, they went in mass to vote to determine what they thought was best for their democratic future. In the same way, the way in which policies are set up and problems faced must be concrete and determined from the point of view of reality. You see, he can't take it anymore. In the everyday life of the relationship is strangled by a banking system that prevents access to credit and, if unfortunately the relationship with the credit generates litigation, leads to exasperation and even to gestures of self-injury because one cannot dialogue with the banking system and with an institutional system always far away. The reforms proclaimed have not led to closeness between the citizens and the institutions. That is why, Mr President, we are strongly opposed to this bill, in which we have not been able to incorporate the elements we believe to be fundamental and we postpone our commitment to future times, which we hope may be, in order to give these answers because we have a great desire to be important and to develop. Mr President, those who kill hope, those who fail to give the concrete sign of the construction of the future are against not only our young people but also against our country. That is why we shall vote no to trust this Government. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u38	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, ours is a no on the substance and method you have used to bring the draft budget law to this House. We all know the method and we talked about it yesterday. You have totally wrong for the umpteenth time: you have mistaken the method and the way you approach the Senate of the Republic. A resigning government, which declared that it was going home after a major electoral blow, should have recognized, at least once, that it was wrong and, on returning to the Chamber with the head covered with ash, should have tried to start a relationship between institutions of the Italian Republic. The problem is that, once again, you wanted to use the arrogance, the confidence, which is no longer there: there may be in this House, in relation to this Government, but you no longer have the confidence. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Outside, the Italians told you: "Go home." Outside, the Italians, when it was said that if he was lost he would return home, they told you: The reform you have done is totally wrong, go home. It's a message that you haven't received and that, alas, you still don't understand. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a virtually empty Chamber listening to the confidence you will give this Government. We could do what we had said: this week we could work to change, improve this bill of budget totally wrong and next week we could come to the Chamber and work seriously not for the good of the Senate, not for Renzi who resigned (and who cares about his resignation), but for the good of the Italians, for the good of all those people who expected and expect something from this bill of budget for all the promises you made in the election campaign. In fact, in the election campaign, to bring home the millions of votes you have obtained (lost), you made promises: one of them is the bridge over the Strait of Messina. Many promises are contained in the bill and we know very well that much of those promises, unfortunately, had to pass from the Senate. The amendments had to go through this House. And so, by putting your trust, you have disregarded the expectations of Italians, of 28 million Italians at risk of poverty, of entire categories of precarious people who are currently waiting and listening to us. Some, even tonight, told us: "Change something". We can't change anything, dear friends, because they put their trust. We cannot change anything, dear Italians, because they have put their trust and do not want to change anything! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators De Pin and Rizzotti]] This President-in-Office of the Council and this Government did as children did when they lost the game, who took the ball and left, leaving others to play with maybe a rag ball. We have to tell the Italians that. Let's tell the precarious teachers, the insecure firefighters, the Forces of Order, the employees of the public administration. Let's tell all those people who are listening to us right now and waiting for something. Let's tell the farmers, let's also tell the Coldiretti, that it had sided while the farmers voted no. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Let's say to the industrialists, whose category had lined up, while the real industrialists, those who work, those who have calluses on their hands, instead said no. Not friends of the palace, friends of friends of friends. Friends of friends of friends said no. The Italians said no and so we say no to this umpteenth confidence. Let's say no to the marchettes to Mr. De Luca and his friends contained in this bill. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We had made a proposal, among the various proposals, and it was presented by Senator Comaroli: we remove the marchettes and allocate the same funds for the earthquake areas. With your confidence you said no to the earthquake areas as well. If the Italians remember, those who go to vote, when we return to the vote, as soon as possible. Renzi wants to go to the vote? We challenge him. They will remember, the friends of Taranto, the 50 million you fucked him just because the President of the Region took sides for the no. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] If all the Italians remember this and it is not enough, ladies and gentlemen of the majority (tell President Renzi, who did not even have the courage to come to this Chamber at least for the last confidence), to put a government, by everyone will be constituted, and then find us the President of the Council who returns a virginity, because the mistakes made in a thousand days of nothing the Italians will remember them and we will be the megaphone that will remind them of these thousand days of absolute nothing. You promised a reform a month and you couldn't keep your promise. Renzi had promised that he would be the last President of the Council to ask for confidence in this House, but that will not be the case, on the contrary, he goes home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] He had mocked us, the lord of Florence, saying, if you remember him (in 2014, when we started to treat constitutional reforms), that we were the capons: he did not say so about the minority, but about the senators; the capon instead is him and we pulled his neck before Christmas. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We remind him that that cobblestone, as he called us, threw his neck in the capon. Home, gentlemen! Home! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u41	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, on the announcement of President Renzi's resignation, the dollar re-evaluated against the euro by 1.6%. I still have in front of me what the "Sun 24 Hours" wrote: According to some technical analysts, the descent of the single European currency at 1.05 could lead to a fall of up to 1,025 and hence to parity with the green ticket. Never was a prediction so untimely. That movement lasted the space of a few hours. Already the next day, the euro had resumed its original value, starting a upward race that has not yet ended, until it has re-evaluated by 2.5%. Identical the spread movement on Italian titles: remained substantially stable, completely in line with what happened in the other countries of the Eurozone. The same differential with Spanish bonos - considered to be the most indicative benchmark - remained more or less fixed: around 50 basis points. The cassandres of the disaster announced have been served. No re-edition, therefore, of the crisis of 2011. No Diktat by Trichet's ECB. An abyss that could be reopened if we were wrong, feeding irresponsible behaviors, and exchanging the normal democratic dialectic, which was mentioned in a referendum, for a kind of divine judgment (like who we heard, just preceded me). I'm going from here to highlight a profound contradiction. From the international markets no alarmism: business as usual, as the British say, namely: "Nothing new on the western front", the beautiful book of Erich Maria Remarque, before the Nazi militias sent him to the stake. In Italy there is a gloomy atmosphere, the dramatization of a undoubtedly complex situation, but that is certainly not the prelude to an imminent catastrophe. Such a clear contrast must lead to reflection, in order to prevent errors from being added to other mistakes, resulting in a spiral - this time yes - without control. It is therefore necessary not to give in to the crises of nerves, but to look with coldness at the situation that has arisen, going beyond the narrow perimeter of our work, in order to deal with the problems of a country that has demonstrated, if ever needed, a great democratic maturity. Such high participation was neither expected nor taken for granted. As was not the referendum on the escalator, even that time wanted - the history that is repeated - by the Communist Party. A referendum that once again gave voice to the deepest country, bringing out the anxieties, the discomfort, the uncertainties of our people, but also the desire for a new protagonism, its trust in the instruments of democracy, a capital that we cannot disperse in the rites of a policy that seems to aim only and exclusively at the reckoning of a political class that simply wants to set up a new table. It would be an extreme mistake, which would pave the way for any adventure that no one - I repeat: no one - would be able to control. That's why I say, let's stop for a moment. Let's try to understand the deepest moods in the country to build an answer that gives those certainties that have so far been lacking. We cannot be like those surgeons who abandon the sick in the moment of need, just because retirement time has taken place. If we behaved in this way, we would not only fail the oath of Hippocrates, but we would be, for this reason, rightly condemned, throwing the entire country into the blackest chaos. In the more specific case, then, of the budget law, we would be in a state of total incompleteness. A law that not only does not solve the problems for which it has been conceived and rightly placed in an institutional context that has always had a constitutional nature, but also risks interrupting in half a maneuver that the House of Deputies had only sketched out, leaving to the other branch of Parliament (us), the task of a more precise definition of it. These simple considerations lead us to reject the logic proposed, that of taking or leaving, of the giver gave and who had had. All the more so since, as I tried before to prove, there is no Hannibal at the gates and therefore we have the necessary time to avoid the behavior of the hasty cat, which, as the proverb recalls, blinds its children. Of course, this doesn't mean that you want to stretch the stock, it just means you have the time to complete the process, whose unjustified interruption risks doing more harm than good. And that the interruption is unjustified is demonstrated by the state of affairs: President Renzi has not yet formalized his resignation and let me just recall President Mattarella's statement: There are commitments and deadlines before us that the institutions will have to ensure respect in any case, ensuring answers to the problems of the moment. Commitments and deadlines. The two terms of the question are not opposed, but form a logical continuum in which the qualitative aspect (i.e. commitments) is further reinforced by the further emphasis:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Is this indication respected, closing quickly and furiously the dossier of the maneuver, and then fleeing is not known where, even if it is full of its inadequacy and provisionality? It would be the greatest gift to anti-politics theorists. Smooth their hair: these are the senators who run away in the face of their responsibilities. To have guaranteed by the referendum the existence of the Senate of the Republic, elected on a universal basis, was it then an error? We must avoid giving this gift to those who do not deserve it and we must demonstrate, on the contrary, that the Senators of the Republic fully assume their responsibilities, even if all this can feed, in the immediate future, some misunderstanding or give the right to some instrumental controversy, aware that, in the end, these small waste will be swept away, all the more if our work will help to improve a law that is far too lacking in extremely qualifying points. Acting contrary not only doesn't help, but it's counterproductive. Together with millions of Italians we have seen live the farewell of President Renzi. He must be recognized the honor of weapons. He fought - and we were at his side - a difficult battle to give Italy a constitutional structure different from the past and more in line with the speed that requires the present time. We have done so with passion and dedication, even if the efforts made have proved insufficient. It was not a useless job and we will see it in the coming months, when the dust of the polemics and pretexts has settled. With the same frankness, however, we cannot fail to see the crisis of the relative majority party. Its internal conflicts are due to the outcome of this legislature and to the lack of foresight of those who have handled delicate instruments such as primary instruments outside the institutional context (the choice of the leader in the vicinity of political elections) in which this mechanism can and must be used. Since then, in fact, the contrast has been permanent. We believe that the time has come for the Democratic Party to resolve its contradictions, but do so without overwhelming the institutions, which must remain the highest garrison of the will and freedoms of the people. We trust in this in the wisdom and determination of the President of the Republic, whose human and political qualities we have always appreciated. It is up to his high magisterium to solve a complex situation for the good of the country. Today we had to solve the problem of the 22,000 Sicilian precarious bodies and administrations; we had to do so during the passage to the Senate, because the House did not have the time. We hope the next government will do it. To him, that is to say to the President of the Republic, we forgive ourselves for future decisions. It will not be a simple task: there are international deadlines to be respected and a European dispute suspended, but not resolved, precisely with regard to the budget law and the related financial maneuver. Then there is the thorny theme of the economic and financial situation: banks to be saved and capitalised. Finally, there is the most immediate and delicate issue, that of an electoral law that cannot be affected by strabism: House and Senate, although with the necessary differences, must respond to an identical conceptual scheme and solve simultaneously the problem of governance and representation. Fortunately, as I said at the beginning, international markets have shown greater wisdom than many commentators, whose authority has been questioned. It would therefore be paradoxical that the fibrillations of a political class totally immersed in the cultivation of its own vegetable garden can transform that relative calm into a tropical storm. For our part, we take on all these contradictions. We do not like this budget law and its incompleteness is clear: the delicate issues left unfinished will not be able to find the necessary solutions. But we will not miss our vote, which, however - it is quite clear - we will only give in the light of the complex situation that has been emerging, in the hope that this attitude of ours will somehow help President Mattarella in the difficult tasks that await him, which are constitutional tasks that come to us from popular sovereignty, as the citizens told us last Sunday. This budget law, as I have already said, does not really convince us, because it had to be improved. After the approval by the House, even with the favorable vote of our deputies (I told the Senate that our Group changed its name: to AL-A is added Civic Choice for the Liberal and Popular Constitution), we trusted in the possibility of improving the text to the Senate. Of course, the current crisis of government unfortunately does not allow further parliamentary passages and in taking note of it, with the same sense of responsibility that in these hours leads the work of our institutions, starting from the Head of State and the President of the Council that has frozen its resignation, I announce the favorable vote of the ALA-Civic Chosen Group for the Liberal and Popular Constitutional, also for consistency with what our colleagues did in Montecitorio. Let it be clear, however, that we will vote for confidence only in the light of the complex situation that has arisen, in the hope that this attitude of ours will help President Mattarella to apply the task that the Constitution assigns him and that it has been strongly reconfirmed by the sovereign people. On the basis of what the people have said in their sovereignty, we hope that this second House will no longer act as a letterhead compared to what our fellow Members send us, and we hope that the next Government will be able to make corrections, even with the thousandprorogations, to what we had to correct and which we could not do for the crisis of government. Mr President, I therefore welcome the Group's vote on the so-called technical trust issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u42	Colleagues, we greet the students, the students and the teachers of the Liceo delle scienze umani (Liceo delle scienze umani) Emanuele Gianturco di Potenza, who attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u45	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we have arrived at the end of the affair (three years) of a Government which - I would like to remind you here - was born of a conspiracy of the Palace. Fortunately, the sovereign people, to whom Article 1 of our Constitution requires everything to be brought back, have expressed a negative opinion not only on its constitutional reform, but on the work of these three years of government. This end today is, once again, in line with these three years, Mr President. Today, in fact, we are in a paradoxical situation in which a government that has resigned comes here to ask for confidence to avoid, once again, addressing the real issues of the country. We were told that we had to rush, that nothing could be changed at all, because immediately after Renzi had to resign, that we had to avoid the provisional exercise. Today we discover that his resignation is probably postponed to Friday, once again demonstrating a method: I wonder how we can define it, if not a continuous method of fraud, in line with the way Renzi came to become President of the Council? Perhaps you are afraid of another conspiracy of the Palace that may replace it with another perhaps unpleasing? Of course, there are many questions. One thing is certain, Mr President. We have defined the draft budget bill as an instrument of electoral propaganda, which has been broken by bonuses and prebends, once again in line with a purely floating objective with regard to the economy and also in line with all previous financial maneuvers. But the serious thing, President, is that in those 19 million people there was also the cry of pain of this country, the suffering of those who live is in the outskirts of our cities, the suffering that of the South and the suffering of young people. The President of the Smart Council, who receives more than 80% of the young people: this should be the certification not only of the failure of his attempt to break up our Constitution, but also of the failure of all his economic policy and policies that he has put in place in these three years, which have delivered a country - just see the ISTAT data of these hours - in which poverty and inequality unfortunately continue to grow. Renzi has allowed an additional condition to occur, which is added to the great difficulties that the country already lives because of the economic crisis. The jobs act also allowed the humiliation of the work; not only therefore the further precariousization, not only the shame of the 100 million vouchers, but allowed the people to be humiliated. The other day I was struck by the story of a girl who has been working for many years at a restaurant in the McDonald's chain, where, in the last two years, just after the approval of the jobs act, not only works with very low salaries (and maybe she feels lucky, because at least she has a rag of work), but, according to the method that is now being used, she is humiliated in front of everyone. The method is to tell them, in front of customers and everyone, that they are morons and that they understand nothing. This is the humiliation of work, the humiliation of people, the humiliation of young people with a high education rate, who have graduated or attended masters. And what did we give them? Vouchers? Did we tell them to go abroad? [[Comments of Senator Albano]] This is the budget for the last three years. Citizens have done so and have been much wiser than newspapers, television and all opinion makers. They understood that they had to give a strong signal and rejected not only that reform, but these choices. Teachers: also humiliated with that good school. And no one wanted to be heard, and this Parliament has also been humiliated. We have never wanted to make serious reasoning, to accept proposals or to discuss them. Even today, in the House, commitments are made. I want to quote here the story of the 50 million children of Ilva. The "fu" President of the Council even raised controversy, saying that they would do the demonstration on Saturday, because they wanted to exploit it for the referendum. They had pledged to allocate the 50 million after he had chosen to give the resources, 600 million, to De Luca, because he had to bring him the votes, and he had decided that the 50 million should not be there. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]] Then, always to remedy and try to gather some other consensus, they had solemnly committed themselves to making the changes here, a few hours before the referendum, after having said everything about the unions. Remember the phrase about Article 18: "Is it like putting a token in the iPhone"? Three years in which all the intermediate bodies and consultation had to be destroyed. Then suddenly, a few hours before the referendum, he rediscovers that consultation is important. He realized that for seven years the public employment has not had the renewed contract and therefore signs a pre-agreement. Here, too, he committed himself and this also had to face the maneuver of the Senate. No, you don't. We would have had every opportunity to do so if it had been a President who, after the blow he received, had for once acted responsibly towards the country and its problems. But what provisional exercise? We had plenty of time to make the changes. The oppositions had committed themselves to focusing on a few points in order at least to resettle this manoeuvre and to fulfil their commitments. But no: not once again. We are told that we have to run away and in a few hours the maneuver, because today the government would have to resign and formalize the resignation. And that's another joke, too. This means that the elections and what the citizens said last Sunday obviously did nothing. The embosser of Rignano is now deceiving himself that 40% of the votes will correspond to the percentage of votes he can obtain in the general elections, but those of hope who live, hopeless will end some time, because within that 40% of votes there are different and articulated positions. For example, there are all those who voted out of fear, because the terror of the failure of the banks was generated. Renzi had nothing to do with what is happening in the Italian banking system. It had to do with those who wanted to defend the Constitution. They went to tell the elderly that they would lose what little savings they have. Renzi thought that, relying on fear and propaganda, Italian citizens would sink the Constitution. The Italian citizens told him instead that they care about their Constitution. Do you know why, Mr President? Because they want the Constitution finally to be applied, starting with Articles 1 and 3, which are the true root of our Constitution and which entrust the Republic with the task of removing all obstacles to substantial equality. That is what the Italian citizens have told us and what we would have wanted to do and to work on in these hours as well. He should have listened and at least tried to remedy a whole budget maneuver that had been designed with tricks. Let us think of all the events of the accounts and the balances, all the tricks and tricks and the electoral propaganda for which it was packaged. The Italian citizens, especially the young people, have said no to him, because - I repeat - they not only wanted to say yes proudly to their own Constitution, but they also wrote a political programme. That's what we're going to tell President Mattarella. The citizens have written a program of government and want them to be removed - this is our next battle - all the absurd and unfair laws that in the last three years have given problems to the country and its stability and - even more so - have created a furrow between those who have and who have not, between the elite and those who feel on the margins. Mr President, this is the message that comes from the outcome of last Sunday's referendum, and that is what we should perhaps have thought about today, doing our duty and trying to remedy, at least in part, all the propaganda that has also been put in place by the last act of budgetary manoeuvre. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u48	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies shares and supports the Government's decision to place this somewhat atypical, also technical, confidence in the adoption of the draft budget law. This is a choice of responsibility, in view of the serious political and government crisis imposed by the unfortunately negative outcome of the constitutional referendum. We too, Senators of the For the Autonomies Group, would have preferred the examination of the draft budget bill by the Senate, but one cannot fail to take into account and recognize the political and institutional priorities that require an urgent conclusion of the parliamentary process of budgetary maneuvering for 2017, also in order to safeguard the balances of public finances. We are not facing an ordinary government crisis. The victory of the no in the referendum on the reform of the Constitution has and will have consequences that are already before everyone's eyes and even more will affect the political and institutional system of our country in the future. We strongly supported constitutional reform and yes to the referendum. I would remind you that all the political forces of majority and opposition have called for a referendum to express themselves to the citizens. In our territory the reform has been appreciated: in the province of Bolzano almost two thirds of the voters have spoken in favour of the yes, but unfortunately it has gone differently at national level and so now will open a season, in my opinion, very difficult for the country. The President of the Council Renzi has demonstrated coherence and political and intellectual honesty, as he has done in the course of his brief experience as a government: we appreciate it and we share both the reasons for it and the ultimate choice to resign. In our opinion the Renzi Government has worked well, has launched important reforms such as jobs act, tax reduction and the reduction of the tax burden on companies. I think it should have gone on, but unfortunately it didn't. As representatives of the Special Autonomies we deeply appreciated the sensitivity that the Renzi Government has constantly had towards us. There has been a path of great collaboration and gradual progress, but constant, that the Renzi Government has made with us, have allowed us to overcome problems that for ten years had remained unsolved generating a great litigation and immobilism. The budget, therefore, is not only positive for us, but also provides the basis for a renewed phase of development of our Autonomous States, which constitutional reform would have strengthened, also in relation to the necessary reform of the autonomous Statutes. I remember the new financial agreement between Autonomy and Government, but also a long series of implementing rules on Stelvio Park, administrative justice, hunting and retail trade and, last but not least, the solution of the topic relating to management surpluses, for which I am particularly grateful to Deputy Minister Morando who has worked long and successfully there. The Renzi Government has therefore been a friend of the Autonomous States, as few Governments previously. Now there are certainly difficult assessments and considerations about the political and government situation resulting from the referendum outcome. As an Autonomous Group we are ready to support a Government of institutional responsibility and that is able to guarantee a homogeneous voting system, for the Chamber of Deputies and for the Senate, also on the basis of the decisions that the Constitutional Court will take on Italicum. We are strongly opposed to a leap into the dark, because we think that Italians need everything, but certainly not to go to the vote without a clear and organic electoral law and we are therefore opposed to messy solutions. In this sense, we hope that President Mattarella's choices will go in this direction. We agree that, in the current situation, the necessary choices of responsibility call into question all political forces, not only those that have been governed at present or previously. I hope that at this difficult time all political forces will assume their responsibilities by putting aside small shop calculations for a moment in order to strengthen their position in view of the electoral challenge that will certainly take place, perhaps even shortly. I think, however, that we should all put before these considerations the good of the country. For once I think that at least we can stop for a moment on the rules and write them together so that after the citizens can at least go and vote with some calmness. Then win those who must win, but at least on the rules, as in any other normal European country, I hope that Parliament will be able to achieve convergence. For this reason I announce the Group's vote in favour of the Autonomouss to the bill at our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u51	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I first entered this Parliament in March 2013, I imagined that economics and work were the priorities of government action. I had to believe it and today I am frankly disappointed that nothing seems to have happened. In fact, none of the tragedies that should have occurred as a result of the victory of no to the written constitutional reform proposed by the Renzi Government occurred, happened or came true. It has happened, however, that the Italian people have clearly slapped this Government, blocking its unbelievable operation. What happened in the substance? The Renzian belief in narration has been disassembled, Mr. President. The Italians have been in charge of telling Renzi what, unfortunately unheard, we have been repeating for a long time and that is that the reality in which the country lives is something else compared to the narration of renziana. For a moment it seemed that the blow had gone out, when the President of the Council had announced his resignation to the President of the Republic. But as always in the strategies and logics of Matteo Renzi there is always an anode behind thought. Good for nothing but capable of everything, Leo Longanesi would have said, and in fact it is all in his diabolical logic the process that this bill of budget is going through. In other words, it happens that a government that has resigned comes to the Senate Chamber, an Assembly that is even stronger today in its authority following the recent vote of the Italians, and comes to demand trust. In essence, Renzi and his Government insult, once again, the institutions of our country, the will of the Italians and - allow me, allow me - our intelligence. We are here to discuss the most important law that we have to lay off every year in this scenario, Mr President, which is bleak: a half-desired Chamber and, what is worse, such, especially in the majority benches because the majority parliamentarians are committed to understanding what, following the resignation of this Government, their future staff will be. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] They confirm, that the fate of the country is of little or no importance to them, as the Minister of the Interior admirably represented when, forgetting his role and function, he also announced the vote in February, forgetting that there is also a President of the Republic, but perhaps someone has not yet informed him that the constitutional reform has not passed. They basically care about the leadership of the Democratic Party, in which to arrive with the loot represented by the budget law. We are asked to vote in the dark on this draft budget law, with the times more than quoted. A draft budget law which, as we have already said in the recent past, is full - I do not know if I can use the term because I have been repeatedly reprimanded - of electoral marches. There she is unmasked the narration of the Venetian. This measure is the sum of all its lies, and I hope it will be the last. For three years, we have been voting - excuse me, they have voted - totally in debt, totally irresponsiblely, without any shouting at the scandal, until we get to the last bill of budget full of expenses without cover, which spends other flexibility: the one of which, rightly, the European Union complains. And why is the European Union complaining? Because none of this government's predictions in these three years have come true. The economic situation has deteriorated from year to year and the result, that no press and communication agency dares to communicate, is that the Renzi Government has increased the public debt by one hundred and fifty billion and has reset the primary surplus of our country. This is what this government leaves to our children in his narration. We will have to work hard to prevent the release of the safeguard clauses and, at the same time, we will have to collect the institutional rubble, we will have to heal the rubbles of the parliamentary regulations, we will, in essence, have to recover reason to the arrogant and uncrite abuse to which our institutions have been subjected. In order to do this, Mr President, our Group will begin by denying confidence in the latter (we hope it will be the last) parliamentary farce. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u54	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, of all the trusts this Government has put in (and has put so many), today's is really the most indecent that you could imagine. It is the most indecent in substance, because it does not allow the discussion of an important measure, which is precisely the draft budget law, which, as we know, sums up all the policy of a government, directs expenditure, allocates resources and, therefore, also intervenes on the areas to be encouraged. It is therefore an extremely important bill. Therefore, we are not allowed to discuss the substance of the measure, especially since the House had already emerged the presence of numerous critical issues, by some of its colleagues, who were supposed to settle in this very branch of Parliament. The timing, among other things, would have allowed this very clearly, as today is not December 30, and certainly would not start a provisional exercise. Therefore, even this haste, which we consider important from a certain point of view in order to demonstrate a change of pace, was not so important precisely because of the limitedness of the changes. In a couple of days, therefore, you could meet the interests of Italians. But the thing that really saddens me most is the fact that very few days have passed since a referendum that came into this very issue. A truly unworthy "schiform" has been rejected and Italian citizens, in an important percentage of voters, have given role and importance to the Senate thus recognizing our work and the fact that we are important in the face of behavior, on your part, aimed at mortifying the Italians. I dare say that the Italians have been offended by this behavior, also because they have not taken into account their needs and their demands. As we said before, the rush was important. We, as an opposition group, had prepared, despite the referendum campaign and knowing that the time was short, a thousand amendments. Then we presented less than sixty of them, which dealt with the crucial points and the issues to be settled. This proves that we really want to help make things right. But this was not allowed to us either. It is also regrettable to see that this Government, instead of pursuing the interests of its citizens, has pursued the interests of financial corporations and international structures. The writings of the JP Morgan of 2013 are evidence of this, and many things have been said to the citizens, also here. I really hope this narration is over - as was said - because in these weeks we have really felt all the colors: from the fact that with this "cracker" we would fix the health care, to the fact that we would treat cancer. We have all heard the problem of banks and markets: a lot of bullshit. And instead we, in our small, have returned to the Italians in these three years 80 million euros. We've heard of miraculous savings. These are really sad things and we hope it will be the end of this narrative and behavior. President Renzi has told a lot about it. Perhaps because I have two young children, one of whom has just returned from abroad, I see that more than 100,000 boys a year leave this country to go abroad. This, I think, is the most important fact. The history and management of these three years, and not only, of this country, is summed up in a single figure. Therefore, this fact, which I believe to be fundamental, must be stressed and I will do so in all fora. I would like to conclude by taking up the last things I said yesterday, when I confirmed what had been said at the Conference of the Leaders. I really would have liked to see a minimum of humility, and instead I noticed the arrogance of these people: the example of Minister Boschi who comes here to ask for confidence, just her who was the creator of a "cracker" that the Italians have rejected in such a heavy way. I would also have expected a step back from someone else like the real architect of this situation, President Napolitano. I would have expected his statement, at least a mea culpa: I hope he takes note of it and at least has the dignity not to appear in this Senate strongly legitimized by Italian citizens. I conclude my speech by confirming a no - as many Italians have already confirmed last Sunday - to this sad confidence, precisely because you did not want to understand that the Italians need, that the Italians are asking us for help, that they are in difficulty. The numbers have already been said here and I do not repeat them, but do not fully understand this, for a health professional, for someone who cares about the needs of people, really hurts me, not only as a politician, not only as a professional, but above all as a citizen. It is really indecent for you to accept this kind of situation, for a President-in-Office of the Council he has screwed us for three years and he really does not deserve it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u55	I would like to remind you that all the members of this House are also fully entitled to take part in the sittings.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u58	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I hope that this is the last Government to ask the Senate for confidence: these are the words in which Matteo Renzi presented his Government to this House on 24 February 2014. Today, after 61 votes of confidence in the two Assemblies, we arrived, thanks to the will of the Italians, to the final chapter: final for the Renzi Government, certainly not for the Senate. I would like to focus briefly on this draft budget law on which you have put the question of technical trust, since some of your colleagues have not even made the explanation of vote, although you have been distrusted by the country and yours is a government I presume to resign. Then the resignation is not known if they will be given today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow: according to the news of the last hours, it seems that they will be given Friday. We would like to know in the meantime what should happen. Despite this, you have once again decided not to calmly address the judgment of the Budget Commission before and then of the House. The reason is quite clear: you have composed a bill of budget almost exclusively electoral, committed to try to grab the most disparate consensus in view of the referendum rather than to do the good of Italy. In addition to the discounted elimination of the VAT safeguard clause of 15 billion, no strategy, no priority, no reasoning on the country system can be seen. Others before me have already disassembled this lousy budget bill and I want to add just one thing. The same majority know very well that we needed to lose our hands: only yesterday, in the Budget Committee, Vice-Minister Morando mentioned the rules on ecobonus and restructuring, the problems related to ILVA, the reductions for earthquake victims, the distribution of the Single Fund for local authorities as arguments that would have needed a solution in this transition to the Senate and that instead will resolve with yet another vote of confidence. Our judgment on this budget law can therefore only be of clear dissent, for the method and even more so for the content. But I would also like to make a few comments on the end of this Government's experience. In the next few hours, hopefully, the Prime Minister will hand over his resignation to President Mattarella (we consider it irrevocable). It will do so because the judgement that Italians have given on the more than a thousand days of its Government is clear and unappellable: more than 59 percent of our fellow citizens, with a participation of 70 percent, said a strong no to a reform messed up, which has gradually lost in the street the reasons for sharing and discussion common; a revision project that had to be shared and that managed only to split the country. A reform imposed by the Government, when a Government should refrain even from participating, as Piero Calamandrei recalled: In the field of constituent power, the Government cannot have any initiative, even preparatory action, and yet: When the Assembly publicly discusses the new Constitution, the benches of the Government will have to be empty. The Italian people also said no to the attempt, implemented with the combined of Italicum, to eliminate the Provinces (a fake elimination, which eliminated the popular vote and created a flood of new skills problems), the governmental appointment of the RAI leadership and the overall system of reform, with which we tried to impose a strong and dangerous decrease in the spaces of democracy in our country. But I believe that the Italian people have said "no" to a government rich in slides and poor in ideas, that has not been able to restart our country and has not been able to give hope for the future of our fellow citizens. A government that failed in each of the great reforms it wanted to face. For example, the jobs act, whose initial good intentions were immediately canceled by internal resistances to the Democratic Party, making it a weak and contradictory measure, which brought questionable results in terms of new employment, however below the European average and drugged by temporary incentives. Then the good school, which has very little good, and which resolved in a mass assumption, without any project and without being able to change the quality of the Italian school. Again, the reform of public administration, miserably stranded on the errors highlighted by the Council, and the reform of justice, which we are still waiting for. A government that has had neither the courage nor the ability to face the problem of Italian public debt, hiding behind the reduction of the cost of the service of the debt, that has been generated, certainly not thanks to the Government, from the decrease of the rates. A government that has demonstrated very little capacity in foreign policy, undecided about everything, unable to address at the root the problem of immigration and trafficking in human beings, which has not been able to affect the areas of crisis, not even those that are recognized Italian competence as Libya. A government that has passively followed the European suicidal policy of opposition with Russia, which finally gave an inappropriate and blatant support to candidate Clinton, risking questioning our consolidated relations with the most important of the allies. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] A government that has had a weak and losing relationship with the European Union, hidden behind the muscles of verbal violence. Finally, a government that has nailed the entire country on an endless referendum campaign, against which all the real problems have been put in the background: immigration, security, taxes, and even earthquake. The photograph that the latest CENSIS report gives of this Italy is merciless: a country locked up on itself, with 15 million poor people or on the threshold of poverty, sunken, broken down and desperate. Look at the results of this referendum, whose alarmist campaign was focused on the dangers of wreckage, markets, the tragedy that would follow the victory of no. In the whole of the South the percentages of the no have exceeded 65 percent, with peaks of beyond 71 percent in Sicily and of beyond 72 percent in Sardinia. There could be no other response to a policy that for the South has done nothing but spot and emergency interventions. Where did the great strategic plan for the south of Italy that Renzi had repeatedly promised? And really the issue of young people, fundamental for the future of our country, could only be dealt with with with a card of 500 euros to spend to go to cinema or theatre? The tragedy of youth unemployment, especially in the South, the social lifts that no longer function, entire generations living in precariousness, who know that their future will be worse than that of their fathers. These are the reasons why 68% of young people between the ages of eighteen and thirty-four said no: to send home a government that has not been able to give them even a credible answer. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] With the latter vote of technical confidence and the resignation of the President of the Council, a new political page opens up. This government has operated from the beginning in a divisive way, rejecting any mediation with the social bodies and any possibility of confrontation, alienating the sympathies of entire categories (teachers, young people, unions, pensioners); it has not been able to give answers to poverty and social despair, it has not been able to face the knot of banks and accountants who have lost all or almost all their savings, it has forgotten the South and the small enterprises, backbone of the production system of our country. This government has remained isolated, with only a few strong powers, or supposedly such, that perhaps so strong are no longer: the great newspapers, the Confindustria, Coldiretti, the big banks and little more. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Look at the reaction of the markets to the news of his resignation and you will understand how little he is in tune with the rest of the country. And today the majority would demand that someone come to his rescue, sharing responsibilities that are only his; I want to say it clearly: this is not possible. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Everyone must take responsibility for his own choices, his own mistakes, his own responsibilities. After all, for us the route is clear and mandatory. It is necessary to give Italy as soon as possible a reasonable electoral law, which can guarantee the governability but also a real representation of the country. Soon after, we can finally give the word back to the Italians, after three governments that have not had an electoral investiture. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We are ready for elections, because we know that only a serious and responsible political proposal such as that of Forza Italia and of the whole centre-right - I repeat: of the whole centre-right - based on the real needs of citizens and productive forces, on the ability to unite and not to divide, is able to relaunch the country and is the only credible response to the global crisis and to the weakness of political representation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u61	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party will vote for the government's confidence so that we can approve the draft budget law that defines the economic framework for 2017 and then also for the following years. It is an act of responsibility and protection for the country because it must be remembered that, without the approval of the budget law, from January 2017 would enter into force the provisional exercise and especially from 1 January, would trigger taxes for more than 15 billion on VAT and excise duty that would have burdened the already difficult life of our fellow citizens. It is an act of responsibility towards the country that wants to contribute to make less difficult the solution of the political crisis that opened with the resignation of the Government and that from tomorrow can be faced by the Head of State and the various political forces without the heavy mortgage that would have been represented by the uncertainty of the economic framework. In this sense, the adoption of the draft budget also provides a framework for relations with the European Union, which would otherwise be left to a single decision by the EU authorities. From this point of view, without going into the merits of the individual issues and trying not to fall back into the easy exercise - which we have heard this morning - of the controversy involved, there are in this budget law a seal of a legislative reform of structural measures that go in the right direction to strengthen the difficult path for the recovery of the economy, of the work and policies of contrast to poverty, that have marked the choices of the government in recent years in this legislature and have been necessary because - perhaps now it is no longer remembered - this legislature has begun with a very serious recession, with unemployment at very high levels, with public finance in great difficulty. I talked about structural interventions. We continue with this budget law in the path of reducing the tax burden on the various realities of the productive world (small enterprises, individual enterprises, companies, start-ups, VAT matches, the agricultural world) to reduce, after the interventions made in recent years, the taxation on labour and on families. The support for private investment, a real point still unresolved in our country, is strengthened in a structural way, with the repositioning of the super depreciation (with an extension also to digital investments), with the tax credit for the South and for research, with the extension of the guarantee fund for credits. The reduction of contributory labour costs is continuing, especially for young people and the South, pending structural intervention throughout the labour sector in 2018. Public investments are characterized by the preparation of multi-annual funds dedicated both to infrastructure and to seismic and hydrogeological safety as well as to emergency management, so that these public investments are subject to an increasing impact path with the different needs of safety, innovation, strengthening of all the fundamental infrastructures of our country. The ecobonus promotes energy saving and the renovation of the housing heritage of families, even with strong innovations, as regards the theme of the condominiums. There is therefore an intervention which, I repeat, completes a path of reforms that certainly did not have the catastrophic outcome set out here, but important results and above all has made it possible to achieve a positive sign for our economy, a positive sign with regard to work. There is also a positive sign with regard to the social policy chapter, where we can record interventions that help, on the one hand, the lowest pensions and, on the other hand, with the necessary caution, open up an exiting pension flexibility, ensuring full support for the most disadvantaged groups, the unemployed, people with disabilities, heavy jobs and lower incomes. It defines itself in certain times - no one said it, why not say it? - the overcoming of the Stability Pact for local authorities and regions, which will now be able to have, with this budget law as well, a dedicated fund to be shared between provinces, local authorities and regions, in order to avoid negative repercussions in the transitional phase. They are also outlined in this draft budget law, as has already been done for some years, interventions on the family, on the promotion of births, on the fight against poverty, which have been launched and which now need to be continued in the coming years. This draft budget law completes an economic path that started from a country in severe recession, which started instead from 2013, continuing in 2014, 2015 and 2016, to resume to walk and give important and positive signals, which must be consolidated. Now the country needs to get out of the political crisis. It must do so by finding first of all an institutional cooperation capacity, to quickly define certain rules, to quickly start a new phase in which political forces, on the basis of an electoral consensus of the citizens, can resume the witness of political leadership, to continue, complete and improve what has been done in these four years. We have the full conviction to hand over to the country, with the budget law, a framework of measures necessary and useful to continue this path and to do so in the interest of all our citizens, to bring the country towards even better results, which we must rightly all contribute to building. For these reasons, the Democratic Party Group strongly votes for the government's confidence. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u62	We greet the students, students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo (Silvio Pellico) of Lettere, in the province of Naples, who have followed our works. Thanks, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u63	We have concluded the explanations of vote. The call was set by the Conference of Leaders at 1.30 p.m. I therefore suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.36 p.m. and resumed at 13.35 a.m.) We shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u64	I refer to the vote on Article 1 of Law No 2611, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on which the Government raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Latorre is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Latorre. SCOMA, secretary, makes the appeal. (Senator Secretary calls Senator Puglia.) PUGLIA (M5S). Nooooooo! [[Comments of Cardinal Senators and Cirinna.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, you could have avoided. SCOMA, secretary, continues the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Astorre, Auricchio Barani, Battista, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bianconi, Bondi, Borioli, Boglia, Bubbico Naleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casino, Cattaneo, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippin, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Stefano, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Filippin, Fincori, D'Onghia Esposito Stefano, Favero There are no senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Aracri, Arrigoni, Augello, Azzollini Barozzino, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bignami, Blundo, Bocca, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinio, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagna, Council, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, De Siano, Di Maggio, Divina Endrizzi Fattori, Ferrara Mario, Floris, Gaetti, Galimberti, Gasparri, Ghedini, Giovandi, Giovanardini, Giovanardi, Girotto, Girotto Lezzi, Girotto, Lezzi, De Siano, Lizzo, Leno, Lizzo, Lizzo, Lizzo, Lizzo, Liano, Liano, Liano, Liano, Liano, Marinio, Livio, Livio, Marinio, Livio, Livio, Livino, Livio, Livio, Marinio, Livino, Marino, Marino, Marino, Marino, Marino, Livino, Marino, Marino, Marino, Mandi, Mandi, Marini, Marini, Marini, Mandi, Marini, Mandi, Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u65	We greet the Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to Italy Bogdan Benko, who is following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u66	I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of Article 1 of Law No. 2611, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on which the Government raised the question of trust: [[Senators present 282 Senators voting 281 Majority 141 Favorable 173 Contrars 108]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B). All the amendments and agendas presented in Article 1 of the draft law are therefore not included.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u67	We shall now proceed to the examination of the following articles. In accordance with Rule 138 (6) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares that amendments 1.0.1 to 1.0.10 are inadmissible, since they contain provisions which conflict with the rules of coverage laid down by the legislation in force. These amendments are in any case foreclosed as a result of the approval of Article 1. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the amendments before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2 with the table attached. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Colleagues, I see that there are cards inserted in the voting arrangements that do not correspond to the senator's presence. I ask you to cooperate. Please remove them, pending the arrival of the senators who will then insert them. We are waiting for them to return to the Chamber. I ask the Senators Secretary to check if there are any vacancies with cards inserted in the voting system. I entrust myself to the collaboration of those who have next to them a card inserted in an empty place to remove it. I could see that digital voting lasts much longer in the House. We are much faster, but we must wait for everyone to be in their place. I would ask Parliamentary assistants to withdraw all the cards entered in the vacant posts. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 2, with the table annexed to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, with the annexed table, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I am against all the amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 3.70 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.71. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.71, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Tosato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.Tab.2.1.5, tabled by Senator Tarquinio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.Tab.2.2.5 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.Tab.2.3.5, tabled by Senators De Pietro and Uras. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u70	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to stress the fact that there is a card on the government's desks which is included in the electronic voting system. I'm just saying that to be exact.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u71	Senator Santangelo, the card was there, and now it's gone. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 3, with the attached table. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4, with the table attached. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u74	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out to you that there is a further form of a smart card on the electronic voting machine at the Commission desk. Probably at any workplace the senator who inserted the card would be sent out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u75	Senator Ferrara, please pull the file. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 4, with the table annexed to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5, with the table attached. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Article 5, with the table annexed to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6, with the table attached. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Article 6, with the table annexed to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7, with the table attached. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Article 7, with the table annexed to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8, with the table attached. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Article 8, with the table annexed to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9, with the table attached. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Article 9, with the table attached to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10, with the table attached. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 10, with the table annexed to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11, with the table attached. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11, with the table annexed to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12, with the table attached. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Article 12, with the table attached to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13, with the table attached. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13, with the attached table. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14 with the table attached. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote of Rule 14, with the table attached. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15, with the table attached. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15, with the table annexed to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 16. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 17. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 18. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 19. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-732.ana.u76	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. The Senate will be summoned at home. The sitting was closed at 14.38 p.m.
