ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,33 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u4	Colleagues, I would like to inform you that, as you have already informed Parliament's groups on the short lines, tomorrow's Question Time sitting at 4 p.m., the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, will answer questions on the following subjects: developments in the crisis in Libya, developments in the peace negotiations in Syria.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on document LVII, No 4. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteur gave the oral report and the debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I will briefly comment on the debate that emerged in the debate. Many of the speakers have called into question the credibility of the economic and financial document's forecasts, criticising it, in a certain sense, all the arguments, namely that estimates are wrong because they have been lowered - it has changed, therefore, opinion - and that they are still too high in relation to the reality of the facts. With respect to these criticisms, I believe that, beyond any other assessment that can be made, in laying down the DEF, the Government has essentially followed a criterion of great attention and adherence to the real facts and, above all, to the objective forecasts made sure necessary by the change in the international economy in the last phase of 2015 and in the first months of 2016. A little 'all institutions have revised downwards the forecasts of growth in the world, in Europe and, therefore, also in our country. To the other objection that our forecasts are still too high because they are placed at the limits of the checks and positions of consensus - as they say - I think I can answer by saying that the government has rightly kept them at the highest possible level on the basis of objective data. And he did so precisely in order not to give up the goal of growth, that is, to keep high - as they say - the bar of the challenge towards economic policy and the programmes of the DEF and, then, the budget law, so that that objective is essentially still at the heart of the initiative of our Document. I believe that this is a shared goal. Then there is the issue of credibility. We have repeatedly insisted, in particular last year, but also in this, that, if the safeguard clauses had been acted upon, they would have become a noose around the economy, forcing the government to keep the forecasts year after year in order to disable them. I believe that this is an important element of credibility. I'll take a second look. In many speeches, the relationship with Europe has been called into question - in this case too, criticising from all sides - and there are those who have said that we are subordinates to it and those who have said that we are outside the European rules. I think the substance is much clearer and more objective. The objective pursued by the Government with the DEF is to address seriously the issue of European stability policy and also growth in Europe, which, as we know, has unfortunately proved difficult to implement with a strict interpretation of European standards and rules. Therefore, I think it is important that last year, but even more so this year, the issue of using all the flexibility margins of European rules in order to steer national policies towards growth has been strongly raised. Moreover, we also see some important results of this policy if it is true, as it is true, that the calculation of potential growth is being questioned (the so-called output gap, which is a key element in understanding the development of budgetary forecasts) and we are even talking about changing the parameter of naked and raw debt to have more reliable elements in the policy of stability and growth. This is also a result of Italian politics. Finally, as a third and final consideration, many speakers have called into question the fact that there are or are not between the aims of the DEF, an expansionary policy and that control of expenditure which - as we all know - is absolutely necessary. I believe that even in this case, without stretching too much, they talk about the facts and data contained in the DEF. We know first of all that an expansionary policy is already contained in many reforms put in place, voted and approved by Parliament and that they must now be implemented in practice. I am referring, for example, to the reform of public administration. Some have asked if the participants will be reformed: the answer lies precisely in implementing the reform of the public administration. As far as investment is concerned, we know that the Stability Act provides for both maximum depreciation and tax credit in the Mezzogiorno in order to give the necessary answers to support investment. Continuing on this topic, the DEF explicitly talks about activating the Italian part of the Juncker plan, which provides for a leverage of 12 billion investments to be made during 2016. And with regard to the Mezzogiorno mentioned several times, there is the whole theme of the masterplan, the European funds and the tax credit on investments, which are part of the policies partially implemented and partly to be completed, on the basis of the government's programmes, and which fall also among the activities of the DEF. Therefore, to the questions raised, which have been accompanied by many doubts in the course of the interventions, we can answer objectively that the reforms put in place, those already approved and to be implemented and the DEF's policy objectives contain this very serious approach, both as regards the control of expenditure - as is also shown by the indices and the planning forecasts - and active support for investment policies, which are accompanied by labour policies and the reduction of taxation at various levels to complement the growth development framework. It seems to me that these comments can respond to the main objections raised during the debate. In this sense, we confirm that the DEF of which we are asking for approval contains the capacity to be within a European policy, however, trying to force it in the direction of development and growth. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u7	I call the Vice-Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Morando, to whom I would ask you to give an opinion on the motion for a resolution submitted to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012 and to indicate which motion for a resolution relating to the Economic and Financial Document you intend to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u8	Mr President, in order to facilitate the work of the Senate, I will begin my reply precisely from the wording of the opinions. The Government welcomes the motion for a resolution No 100 on the report to Parliament by which the Government has requested permission to amend the return plan. I shall take this matter up again later, but I will now give the favourable opinion on the motion for a resolution No 100. The opinion is opposed to motion for a resolution No 1. On motion for a resolution No 2, I should like to make a quick...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u9	Excuse me, Mr Vice-Minister, you should kindly inform me immediately of the motion for a resolution you intend to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u10	Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. The Government intends to accept motion for a resolution No 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u11	Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for resolution No 5, signed by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, the one-hour deadline for tabling any amendments referred to it starts at 16.44 p.m. Please, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u12	I complete the wording of the opinions on the motions for resolutions. On the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Uras and Stefano, I should like to make some further comments. The Government is oriented towards making the political commitments provided for in this resolution, pointing out in particular that it has already made precise choices in the requested direction over the last two years. I remember the automatic tax credit for investments in the Mezzogiorno referred to in the Law of Stability for 2016, the taxing of contributory charges for newly hired permanent workers in the Mezzogiorno also for 2017, environmental rehabilitation interventions as in the case of the so-called land of fires. But the Government, while recalling the sense of these choices, recognizes the urgency to place these same choices and others that it is about to make, and above all the pacts for the development realized and to be realized with the Regions of the South, in a broader strategic plan that uses fully the potential of the Mezzogiorno in terms of human, territorial, cultural and environmental resources. Technical reasons related to the specific function of the resolutions on the Economic and Financial Document, which - as is well known - must set the financial boundaries and objectives of the budgetary session, prevent the Government from turning political consensus into a favourable opinion on this resolution. I therefore call on you to withdraw to avoid a negative opinion which would contradict - as I said - the government's political intentions on this crucial issue. I am against the motion for a resolution. As I have already said, we are in favour of Amendment No 3, 4, 6 and 7, and we are in favour of the motion for a resolution No 5. With regard to motion for a resolution No 8, the Government considers to a large extent acceptable - as I say to the senators who have proposed it - the proposals for commitments set out in this resolution, particularly where it clearly indicates the link between constitutional political reform and structural reforms for the recovery of the economy from the Mezzogiorno. However, these commitments are largely included in motion for a resolution No 5, which the Government has just accepted. For the technical reasons already mentioned, with regard to the specific function of the parliamentary resolutions on the Economic and Financial Document, the Government, which must accept a single resolution on the DEF, in order to make it amendable, once approved and, therefore, technically liable to be based on the definition of budgetary documents, asks the proposers of motion for resolution No 8 to consider the possibility of converging in the vote on motion for resolution No 5, with respect to which the motion for a resolution No 8 presents significant elements of convergence. Mr President, following the wording of the opinions on the resolutions tabled, I will be able to make some quick comments on the more general political debate on this Economic and Financial Document. The most recurrent issue in our debate was certainly that of the unreliable expectations of over-optimism - we would say - by the Government. Senator Zanoni and rapporteur Santini have already pointed out that the government's forecasts are in fact often at the extreme limit - at the extreme limit, not beyond that limit - of the forecasts accepted by the Parliamentary Bureau of the budget. In this, which is a fact and not an opinion, there is the result, for this reason, of an important reform of the procedures of the budgetary decision that we have all decided together to make a few years ago. I am referring, in other words, to the inclusion in the aforementioned procedures of the role of the Parliamentary Budget Office, with the capacity for analysis, the authority reinforced by the appointments made by Parliament, the Presidents of the Chamber and the Senate, on the direction of that Office and the independence necessary to make reliable assessments of the forecasts. From this, Mr President, Mr Senators - for those interested in the matter - a continuous process of rapprochement between forecasts and facts of reality. On gross domestic product - for example - we have moved from the average error of 2% between forecasts and real developments (i.e. performance carried out by the last Berlusconi Government) to 1.3% of the Monti Government. (always in terms of deviation between predictions and reality data), to 0.7% of the Led Government, to reach 0.2 percent deviation of the Renzi Government. As a member of this Executive, I would like to consider that there is a little virtue and political determination in the positive result that we have achieved. But the constant rapprochement between predictions and reality data perhaps speaks to us of something more interesting and that should be recognized by everyone. I mean that the structural reform that we introduced with the presence of the Parliamentary Bureau of the budget in the same budgetary procedures is producing important results, because the budgetary decision is based on more reliable forecasts and not because the quality of the government is better. I also think that it is so - you will allow me this vanity as part of the Government - but I believe that there is a structural and institutional fact behind it that perhaps, being the fruit of everyone's work, could be claimed by everyone. A second point I would like to make in relation to the fundamental choice of the DEF, on which the motion for a resolution No 100 has been tabled, to which I have just given a favourable opinion. The emphasis must be placed on the choice for which the Government has asked Parliament for explicit permission, pursuant to paragraph 5 of Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012, so-called reinforced, implementing the new Article 81 of the Constitution. I am referring to the decision to amend the return plan previously defined for a number of factors that motivate this government proposal and I hope that Parliament will accept the request for authorisation. For those who want to see them analytically, I say that - according to the Government - the reasons that motivate such a choice are 9 and are punctually indicated on page 67 of the Document of economy and finance. However, I would like to point out two of those nine reasons in particular, which I consider to be particularly important factors. The first concerns a subject which nobody, although absolutely crucial, talks about and concerns the future of Europe and Italy. We believe that our choice derives directly and is motivated by insufficient coordination of fiscal and economic policies in the euro area, where excessively restrictive fiscal policies could aggravate the already strong deflationary tendencies and, therefore, strong tendencies towards economic stagnation. In particular, on this point I would like to add that the policy of expanding consumption and investment in countries in excessive surplus is far below the requirements, and I stress not in commercial surplus but in excessive commercial surplus, according to European rules and not according to the opinion of Enrico Morando. It is then incomplete - it is the second point - the architecture of the Banking Union, because there is no European deposit guarantee. This is the first important factor on which I would like to draw attention: unless there is a turning point in the coordination of fiscal policies, particularly in relation to the expansionary policies, consumption and investments of countries in excessive surplus of trade balance, we will not be able to achieve an action of rebalancing the European dimension, also because - it is the second limit in the coordination of economic policies - the countries in resounding deficit and trade deficit struggle to achieve the necessary structural reforms (I think of Greece) that make them more competitive. It is within this imbalance that there is already the dramatic crisis in the euro area in its ability to have a fiscal policy that is effective in dealing with asymmetric shocks which, in the presence of this distance, of course, have particularly negative effects. The second important factor is the non-full assumption, in the rules for the coordination of fiscal policy, of the conclusions reached in the economic literature about the size of the multiplier of fiscal policies during and after a deep recession. Even official analyses, carried out - for example - by the International Monetary Fund, are now clear: when a country knows or has experienced a deep recession (this is the case of Italy), the multiplier of fiscal policies, i.e. the effect of restrictive budgetary policies on the product, is much greater than in a situation of economic equilibrium. If we continue to act to improve coordination rules and budgetary surveillance without considering this fundamental element, which is not a technical subject, but is a fundamental subject of economic and fiscal policy orientation, we will not achieve the objectives we set ourselves. From this point of view, therefore, we are in a context in which the coordination of fiscal policies with the European dimension is too far from the requirements precisely on the point of determining the rules functional to the ability to deal with and resolve excessive imbalances that occur within the euro area. For this reason too - and I am addressing in particular the opposition forces, which legitimately oppose the Economic and Financial Document - I expect that, on the request for permission to change the pace and character of the return plan, precisely these forces, which constantly urge us to act in Europe for a different direction of economic and fiscal policy, will give a positive assessment when voting on motion for resolution No 100, which authorises the Italian Government to change the pace of the return plan; the opposite would be completely contradictory with respect to the positions they themselves have taken and which they have recalled in the debate. Very quickly - and then I come to the conclusion, referring for the rest to the reply I made in the Committee on Budgets, which, of course, as is possible here, has been more analytical - another subject which is very much mentioned in the speeches is the level of tax pressure, particularly on producers, i.e. workers and businesses. When this government started operating two years ago, the specific level of corporate tax pressure was at the top of the European ranking. If you don't want to live up to what I say, go and consult the Court of Auditors' 2014 report on public finance coordination, then referred to in its conclusions in the 2015 report itself, and you will see this confirmed. Two years ago we had the highest tax burden on work and business - I am not talking about the total - among all European countries. Two years later, today - not even on purpose - there has been the publication by ISTAT of data relating to the tax on companies in the biennium 2015-2016. For lovers of technically correct expressions, the tax pressure meter on companies is called total tax rate and is a specific business pressure index, i.e. the level of tax and contribution pressure in relation to commercial profit. Well, for 2016 - I quote today's ISTAT press release - the overall effect of the measures taken is an 11% reduction in corporate taxes of 3.5 billion. It is an impressive result that should be claimed as a result of the entire national community, because the reduction of the tax burden on the company, i.e. the total tax rate, is an objective that even in the past governments have set themselves without being able to achieve it. Does this mean that we have reached where we want to go? No. We have taken a step in the right direction, but we want to reach 2018 at a level of tax pressure on companies and labour in Italy similar to that in force in Germany. Why am I talking about Germany? I quote you because it is Europe's first manufacture and we are the second. If every day Italian workers and companies start competition with the main German competitors burdened by a level of tax pressure on the work and the highest enterprise, we run a daily race with unbearable handicap to our workers and our companies. We want to get there. Why is it important to stress the result that is now certified? That result shows that we can do it. If in two years we have reduced the level of tax burden on companies by an average of 11%, it means that the reduction of ten more points, which would allow us to reach the level of total tax rate in Germany, is in our ability. It is enough to want it with determination - and the Government wants it with determination - and to be consistent, especially on the choices to revise public expenditure that are essential to make credible goals of reducing the tax burden as those we propose. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fravezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u13	We greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Scientifico (scientific high school) Maria Luigia in Parma, who are assisting from the forums to our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u14	I would ask Senators Uras and Stefano if they will accept the Vice Minister's invitation to withdraw motion for resolution No 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u15	Mr President, in view of the fact that the Government has declared a substantial orientation in the political plan to take on the commitments that we expect in our resolution, we accept the call for the withdrawal of motion for a resolution No 2, since we consider the attention to areas in distress to be politically important. The Mezzogiorno and the islands certainly are. The Deputy Minister also referred to some of the measures that the Government has taken over the years, which we clearly consider insufficient to achieve the objectives set out in our resolution, but we look forward to this openness and, therefore, to taking on a political commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u16	Do you too, Senator Ruvolo, accept the proposal of Deputy Minister Morando?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u17	Yes, Mr President, we welcome the Vice-Minister's invitation and we are in favour of converging on Resolution 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u20	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Deputy Minister Morando for his reply, which has not damaged us with interesting observations and - I would add - countervertible. As has already been pointed out during the debate and appreciated by the rapporteur, Mr Santini, whom I always thank for his work, there are countless critical elements that describe once again a dangerous discrepancy between assumptions and realities to the detriment of citizens, families and businesses, starting from data on growth and inflation. Deputy Minister Morando, the historical sequence that you mentioned on the divergent data between forecasts and reality does not console us enough. In fact, it is only with a significant increase in nominal output that it is possible to remain in the European deficit parameters, and above all - I say - of debt, whose reduction, already planned emphatically for this year, is for the Government a strategic objective, but meanwhile postponed. In this regard, I recall that last year, the debt stock increased by 35 billion, which is worth more than two points of GDP; that the estimate of the 2016 ratio was revised at worse than a percentage point (one percentage point and not 0.2), that is about 17 billion, compared to the recent one of September, contained in the Note of variation to the DEF 2015, fruit in large part - as you know, Deputy Minister - of the worsening of the needs of the public administrations; that the forecast for 2016 pays for the positive contribution of privatizations for about 8 billion: a figure to be verified, as the privatizations in our country have set in motion, especially together with the modalities of realization. In short, if the risk that the programmatic estimates are less good than expected is very well founded, how substantial is the sustainability of a debt that, in absolute value, continues to grow significantly year after year? The increase in debt is a worrying fact - we have always pointed out, Deputy Minister Morando, and not from today - the result of the systematic recourse by the Government to the deficit as an instrument to preserve so-called expansionary fiscal policies, instead of implementing a real reduction in public expenditure, that is truly expansive. But criticism of DEF 2016 could continue on many other aspects. We are faced with an economic document, by its own admission, which forces us once again to disclaim by "0" but which will not change anything in the everyday life of families. The government believes that growth is achieved only by acting on the demand side - and this is a debate in which we have been participating for some time - but by extending it with the use of deficit and specific stimulus measures that often, however, prove fragmentary, sometimes also called tips or gifts, with almost useless effects for the purpose. This is the demonstration of how the 80 euros, that could become 100, that they have had and will have the least value to please someone - against a very heavy burden for the community - will certainly not bear the fruit hoped for by the government. This results in attention to the great numbers, to the complex dynamics of mathematical models rather than to the actual reality, as well as the breaking of the canon of sound management, known by any accountant, which prevents to cope with long-term jobs with resources denominated and defined shortly, pain the non-sustainability of those jobs and the failure of the company (but the company is our country and to fail we risk being all of us). So, to tell on all occasions that the growth - what we do not see - of our product is due to consumption, to the effects of measures such as the infamous 80 euros (and the consequent deficits achieved for their implementation) has as a result a beautiful title in the newspapers and no change in the daily lives of people and families, as well as to keep a situation of continuous emergency. I mean, it sounds like nice words, but then the numbers are really bad. Of course, demand plays a role in development, but today more than ever, for robust and lasting growth, it is necessary to act on supply, with instruments that do not necessarily operate in the short term and that increase productivity, another critical factor of our economy, which sees us at the bottom of the European rankings. In our opinion - and we have always been convinced of this - we would need to reduce public spending, a courageous plan of real investments in the country's tangible and intangible infrastructures, which have beneficial repercussions for the whole community, especially by using the tax lever that we never want to use. Wouldn't it be time, for example, to bring high speed to the South? Wouldn't it be necessary to create energy networks and infrastructures that in the North of the country, as in the South, make it possible to seize the opportunities deriving, for example, from the important discoveries of natural gas deposits in the Mediterranean basin, allowing, at the same time, the gradual decrease of the cost of energy, for the benefit of companies and consumers, with significant contribution to the reduction of polluting emissions? From this point of view, in addition to the emphatic proclamation of a restart of the investments from next year, the Document refers only to the plan Juncker, that I appreciate very much, but that it struggles to take off, showing limits and operating ambiguities. Now more than ever, there would be a need for real labour market interventions, not the paradigms of the jobs act, which has brought shredding benefits in the face of huge public costs. Rather, those aiming at effective liberalisation of the market, business contracts rather than the moloch of the national collective labour agreement, which still contains very strict measures within the labour market; measures that help employment. All of us - the government, the majority and the opposition - are obviously very attentive to the unemployment rate, but we often forget that of employment, which has been steadily declining over the last decade. The measures implemented by the Government in recent years do not seem to go in the desired direction: I am thinking of the disappointing results of the so-called "young guarantee" or those of the contributory reductions. We need to work more and many more must work if we are to make our pension system sustainable, which also shows that it is increasingly fragile and in need of profound renewal. It would take a courageous change of pace to identify forms of partial decontribution of the compulsory contribution rate, towards supplementary social security schemes, in particular for the younger generations, but not only. It is necessary to build a basic treatment for the new recruits, informed of the amount of the social allowance and financed by general taxation, as many proposals evoke, which encourages the construction of complementary treatments, defined by Legislative Decree No 201 of 2011, which we still do not see achieved. Minister Padoan reiterates his intention to pursue a rigorous and, at the same time, expansive fiscal policy. But there is no point in reviewing rates or facilities if this means greater deficits. So we'll just keep changing the addenda, but not the sum. It is now essential to completely review taxation on people and businesses, in the wake of a significant reduction in rates and, with regard to personal taxation, support for the family, including through the introduction of mechanisms such as income splitting, which reduce the progressiveness and the overall tax burden, financed by a thorough review of those tax expenditures that the Court of Auditors has recently estimated in more than 300 billion and growing in recent years. I am pleased, Minister Morando, for his quote of the total tax rate: that is the way to go and I hope that we can get there as quickly as possible. A revision, that of tax expenditure, that should take into account the choices of innovation, restructuring and aggregation adopted by the enterprises, from the micro to the small and medium ones, that we must support in particular in the access to credit. Credit and the banking system cannot be exposed, also because of the weak action of this Government, as those who preceded it, to the confrontation with the wrong vision, all European, indeed, better to say all German, that we have been suffering for too many years. The recapitalisation procedures, the internal ones provided for in the Community directive, including the notorious bail in, must be reviewed, in order not to discourage citizens to use their savings in banking companies, avoiding concrete risks to the financial stability of the country. Personally, I consider the operation under the name of the Atlas Fund to be a small good start and the role played by the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti fuori dalle perimeter dei debiti pubblici e dei sogni di Stato. An operation that protects us from very urgent risks, done by the system for the system. This does not mean that this DEF not only disappoints us, but will also disappoint the Italians, once again. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u23	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, let me start by complaining about the timing of the debate on the DEF. This is a very important measure, because it contains economic planning for the whole year 2016 and unfortunately the time we devote to it is such that, for example, the Group of the North League had twelve minutes at its disposal, in which it also had to explain the resolution presented and highlight the problems. In view of this, we see that sometimes in this House we are wasting time on measures that - for God's sake - someone may also consider important, such as the one that instituted the Gift Day, dedicating hours to it. That's what we're sorry about, because there's a lot to say about the DEF. I will not be talking here about deviations, because these aspects have already been highlighted in the various speeches that preceded me. I'd rather say you could see a positive note. The positive note would be that the safeguard clauses will be removed and that VAT will not increase. You might think it's a good news; but then let's see what this will involve: it will mean that the Government will have to raise 55 billion in order to avoid it: 15 in 2016, 20 in 2017 and 20 in 2018. The doubt is: but how will he do it? Unless they're rude! One might think that the solution is contained in the DEF. And the DEF doesn't say anything. That is, the words of the DEF are many (just to see what malloppone it is), but nowhere does it enter into the merit of the individual measures that the Government will take to find these sums. So much so that the Parliamentary Budget Office also says that it is a generic DEF that does not go into the details of the measures. And what does that involve? That we're all here to experience uncertainty. The municipalities and the regions will live the uncertainty, because they do not know what their future will be and they themselves will not be able to make a programming, because it is enough that the government, as we have seen recently, apply cuts and a municipality that has perhaps made a prediction then find themselves unable to execute it. We expected, since the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, that the DEF would establish it, and instead it does not. Another aspect to be considered concerns the return plan, which is also very particular. The majority will authorize the Government to postpone the debt recovery plan by a further year. Debt doesn't seem to be important, but, in our view, it is very important. You can't think of moving on with all these billions of debt, even considering that the spread is slowly increasing. This means that the interest on the debt that we are going to pay will increase and thus increase the state's spending. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The government is asking for a postponement and the European Union will have to tell us whether we can do it or not. The European Union only allows this if it is in serious depression, but it is the Government itself that says that we are recovering (little, but we are recovering) and therefore we are not in recession. In addition, the European Union allows this in the presence of an exceptional event, such as an earthquake. Have you seen anything that tragic? I don't, and I hope I never see him in our country. I therefore have serious doubts. Once again, the Parliamentary Budget Office says that in 2015 the rules were respected, that in 2016 it is not known and that certainly in 2017 and 2018 they will not be. The DEF should deal with growth and employment. In his report, the rapporteur, Senator Santini, wrote that employment is significantly increasing and that the unemployment rate is significantly reduced. I talk to people and people who are looking for work without finding it. On the famous jobs act (the reform that was supposed to solve all the employment problems) a state survey was carried out (so Silvana Comaroli is not speaking). The statistical survey Labour market reforms in Italy, developed by three famous economists, cross-referenced the data of ISTAT with those of EUROSTAT and INPS. The result is that the reform did not lead to job growth, as in most cases there has been a transformation of contracts for reasons related to contributions. There has therefore been a transformation in this sense, but no new work has been created, nor are there any more people who work and manage to reach the end of the month. I recognize the President-in-Office of the Council that I am good at this. Matteo Renzi is good, but he's good at talking, selling smoke, making things look like they're not. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bulgarelli]] I'm sorry to be related to an old story, but the 80 euro bonus didn't produce the hoped-for evolution that should have restarted household consumption. If we go to see the range within which the forecasts must stand, we observe that in 2016 there are no. The government has a prediction beyond the range. Now the government is talking about outgoing pension flexibility, but how will it implement it? He's talking about a possible revision, but he says he'll do it. But then he quotes: what does the government want to do? Rationalise welfare and social security benefits by introducing the principle of selective universalism. Poletti said it was a mistake, but there is. On the other hand, 55 billion somewhere must be recovered, even if the government says it will not. Then there is the whole revision of tax relief. Last week, here in this House, motions were approved on ecobonus allowances, furniture purchases, etc. But then one thing is said and another done; I am not understanding anything. I am probably not an expert, I recognize this; there are those who know much more than I do. But I'm talking to people, and I don't see this whole thing. I am also thinking of the 500 euros given to adults: but is this policy? A serious and forward-looking policy is done by serious investments, not by current spending. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But Renzi says he's done the reforms and cut the provinces. No, he simply cut the provincial councils, yes, but then the Provinces are still there, the costs are still there, the employees are still there and instead the jobs that the Provinces did are not there, because our roads continue to have no one to follow them; but the staff is there. As far as school reform is concerned, only confusion has been made (talk to the teachers). And as for the reduction of expenditure, even here it is easy to say. But at the expense of who? Certainly not the Ministries and the Central Government, but at the expense of the Municipalities and the Regions; there are all the tables that prove it. There is the problem of the turnover of the municipalities; because of the cuts, you cannot hire staff. Although the only kindergarten teacher retires, at least five people cannot be replaced until they retire. Not to mention the fact that the revolution of the banking system is not in favour of the citizens, but perhaps only in favour of the great bankers. A final reflection concerns the issue of security, which is a very important and fundamental issue. A citizen must feel safe at home and not be afraid of people who come in and steal, even to the point of losing their lives. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So no more empty prisons, indults, and everything else. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u26	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, there are days - and this is one of those - when propaganda and everything that is being buzzed by teleimbos or whatever, everything that is being said in various places (all more or less convivial circumstances) and is being flaunted as great successes, great expectations or great programmes of change are reckoning with data, numbers and reality. To criticize the DEF that is being put to our attention I will not use the arguments or numerical references of this or that other political side, but I will use the same instruments, the same words and the same reports that just two years ago he carried out and presented to Parliament the Renzi Government. This is the third DEF that is presented by this Government; so there is nothing easier and more incontrovertible than going to verify what it was and what this Government wrote in the year 2014, than what the Government writes today, in the year 2016, in its report. The Government notes that it has not achieved any of the objectives it proposed just two years ago. It notes that growth, debt reduction, the achievement of employment levels, all macroeconomic data and references, but also those relating to the real economy, are all not centered on the forecasts that it itself had just two years ago. Therefore, I do not want to dwell further on the numerical data, because in this document there is the admission of an inability to achieve the objectives set. But I find it scandalous that an important and fundamental document, which on the one hand must photograph the situation of the country and on the other hand must lay the fundamental foundations of the future law of stability for the year 2017, is so sterile from the point of view of the design capacity and the ability to indicate the way out of the crisis. Because crisis situations are photographed from the point of view of economic growth, debt and employment, but no recipes, no indications, no paths to overcome this moment of crisis are presented. This is more than embarrassing, and even from the moral point of view the government should pose the problem of having to photograph the country as it is currently, since this is also the mission of the DEF. How does a Government, which presumes to represent Italy as a whole, not to photograph a double-speed Italy, not to photograph an Italy with very serious difficulties? Because the fact that you hide the difficulties under the carpet means that you do not lay the real problems as the basis of the future law of stability. And how can we fail to worry today about a government that underestimates more than 50% of Italy's territory, that is, the Mezzogiorno of Italy, and which underestimates the needs of most Italian citizens living below Rome? With what hope and confidence can citizens live if we ourselves are deprived of trust in you? I use this adjective because I need it to introduce a concept, Deputy Minister Morando. The SVIMEZ, which is not exactly the study centre of Forza Italia, but a body that studies phenomena, the economy and the interconnection between the instruments of government and the needs of the territories, uses two fundamental terms: the first is that of deprivation. Deputy Minister Morando, deprivation is the index with which the poverty of families is identified, and is indicated at 13%. In the pre-crisis period and worst times, this percentage was 8 percent. Today she is performing her replica in the Senate of the Republic and supports this DEF by not mentioning at all one of the greatest inconveniences that Italians are experiencing today: hunger, living below the poverty line. You must talk about this index, because a government cannot help but worry about how it is, how a citizen lives, what its level of well-being and hope is with regard to the future perspective. There is another term that is used, and from the social point of view it is an aspect that your Government cannot in any way ignore and certainly cannot do so by its parliamentary majority. What then to say from the other adjectivation, the desertification of the Mezzogiorno of Italy? An organism that studies the economy, which has at its disposal all the vocabulary it wants in the field of the economy, uses a term that is more geophysical and meteorological, to identify a backwardness without hope of reversibility. The SVIMEZ tells us that the Mezzogiorno is deserting itself, that it no longer finds in itself that sap, that water that can resurrect, reflower that territory. These are the issues that you in the majority do not talk about, which you do not mention in any way in your report. I am really shocked that once again the usual chorus has been repeated: there is still talk of intervention in the Mezzogiorno through the de-taxation of labour. Do you understand that there is no work in the Mezzogiorno? If there is someone who cares to define that territory as deserted, the problem is precisely to create production, the development processes that then generate work, and only then can be considered welcome the reductions on new recruitments. However, as long as there are no conditions for hiring, I wonder what you're talking about. I should now like to turn to the friends of SEL and the AL-A Group who have withdrawn their motions for resolutions in favour of proposal No 5. [[Senators Barozzino and De Petris are complaining of dissent.]] In particular, I would like to point out to Senator Ruvolo that the only part devoted to the Mezzogiorno of Italy in motion for resolution No 5 refers only to the possibility of spending the funds of the Community programming 2014-2020. Is this the tranquillity and trust that inspires a text towards a problem that has such profound characteristics that creates conditions so heartbreaking from the social and economic point of view? Mr. Deputy Minister, this is not the DEF we would like and we will vote for. We will not support the majority motion for a resolution. The Group's colleagues believe that there are parts that can be supported in the various motions for resolutions; however, both from the debate in the Budget Committee and from the debate in this House, I do not think I can give any consideration, confidence and appreciation to this DEF. At the same time, I would like to address Deputy Minister Morando with my heart, not only as a member of the community of the Mezzogiorno of Italy that really needs attention and intervention, but first of all as an Italian: Italy will not reach those levels of GDP that will allow it to pay its previous debt if it does not face and recover the capacity for growth of GDP and the overall economy in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. Many economists have supported it by now; I therefore wonder why this Government still insists that it does not want to put at the base of its attention this revival that would help the whole national territory. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u29	Mr Ruvolo (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, I would like to reassure Mr Giovanni Mauro that the proposal made by the Government, in the person of Deputy Minister Morando, to converge on motion for a resolution No 5 has a particular connotation. Of course there are many other points, but on the issue of the Mezzogiorno we have inserted the words: "include in the DEF 2016 the adoption of an extraordinary plan for the Mezzogiorno that has an overview and duration". I believe that it is enough for the Government, for the Assembly in general and for Senator Mauro Giovanni, that precisely on this point we will place a politically correct but very incisive condition. I had of course taken a few notes, but the idea that the Government gave me is very interesting, where the Government could converge on our proposals - or at least I hope it will - on a general matter. We have agreed and agree that there are priorities - I am talking about budgetary policy - and among the priorities there is the reduction of the tax burden and the recovery of investment. It is from there that we want to develop our reasoning to help the country as a whole, also to declare - I say very strongly - that the reforms undertaken, both that of the public administration and the reform at work, go in the right direction. Mr Vice-Minister, we certainly need to do more in this direction and above all, as far as public administration and the public sector are concerned, we must avoid (simple needs that can be understood by everyone) the overlapping of decisions that are taken only on the one hand. The overlapping of overlaps only paralyses the administrative system as well as the market. The whole country needs quick decisions. Speaking of overlapping, I also intend to refer to what happens on the territory, from the municipalities, to the Regions, to the former Provinces (we still do not understand in some regions where it ends), where there is never a real decision, or in any case a real decision. This, from my point of view and from my Group's point of view, strongly fuels corruption. That's where you have to hack. Why so many decision-making levels? I would also like to focus on the subject that is particularly close to my heart, but which is shared by the whole Group, which is the drama of the Mezzogiorno: it is from here that the country must start or start again. Mr President, Mr Deputy Minister, although aware of the difficulties that the country has and of which we are certainly aware, international experience shows that it is possible to overcome this challenge. Why aren't we and in other parts of the world? Let us ask ourselves this question, because the country needs to be integrated, interconnected. It is no longer acceptable - I say this because the Government is aware of it certainly before me - that to go from Bari to Reggio Calabria it takes eight hours and maybe to go from Bari to Milan it takes three or five. From Reggio Calabria to Bari, or vice versa, it takes hours and hours. I am not talking about Sicily: from Trapani to Messina it takes seven hours, which is even more scandalous and shameful, because there are no ports, no airports, no roads, no railways. That is the tragedy of the Mezzogiorno. I do not want to mention those who have preceded us over the centuries, over the last fifty years, who have tried to put their hands on the Mezzogiorno. But today there are all the main conditions for a country that wants to engage in development. Those of the Mezzogiorno are not mysteries; they are neglected; they are things for which, at times, common sense is sufficient. So, permanently interconnecting the country remains a top priority. As for the bridge over the Strait, as a Sicilian I say I wish I had it. It is beautiful; it would be a great work, but if I don't have the roads, the railways and the ports, how Sicilian that I make of the bridge on the Strait? It will always take seven hours to get from Trapani to Messina. Then maybe I'll pick up half an hour on the bridge. I am in favour of the bridge as a Sicilian, but after completing priorities such as primary infrastructure, roads and highways. There are about 20 kilometers to close the circumscribed ring. I'm talking about Sicily for now. There are also feasibility studies carried out by ANAS with public money, but there is still no answer. Mr. Deputy Minister, I'm talking about things that are at least fifteen years old and still remain in the drawer. We do not need extraordinary things, but simple things for the whole of the Mezzogiorno. I very much appreciate the fact that the President-in-Office of the Council is going around the Mezzogiorno, but it is very little from my point of view because he is proceeding in sectors without having an organic plan for the South; there is no platform to determine what needs to be done and what the priorities are. When it is not possible to interrogate with the Regions, the National Government itself takes the decisions to unlock the situation. It is called unlocking Italy the measure that we amended last year with stability. In order to be able to unlock the Mezzogiorno it is necessary to set up a directing booth for all the works that concern him, otherwise each Region will want to do its part, which will be completely disconnected from the country system. That is what we have said and we reiterate it above all for unfinished works, Mr. Deputy Minister. The unfinished works are there throughout the country, but, by chance, the prevalence of the same is concentrated in the Mezzogiorno, according to the few data I have available. If this is true, there too must be a concrete impact. Unfinished works cannot be the shame of the country and the Mezzogiorno. We must do something more and use all the necessary funds and European funds for the strategic and important works that the country needs. Just make sausage festivals with European funds. Let's take responsibility. The sausage festival if the mayors and the municipalities make it. We do important things that the country needs. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, hold the country. Soldering the country means making a big bet. I repeat again: today there are all the conditions. A euro spent on the fight against terrorism, a euro spent on a cultural battle. I blink and congratulate the President-in-Office of the Council, but then use this equation also for the Mezzogiorno: one euro spent on the Mezzogiorno, one euro spent on culture. The common denominator remains this: the cultural fact in order to be able to engage a concrete possibility of recovery, which we have indicated in our motion for a resolution. I hope the government will accept this part. The next laws of stability, for 2017 and 2018, can be important for the Mezzogiorno and for the country. We strongly believe in it and we will give our full support if the Government has the sensitivity to put at the top of its agenda the tragedy of the Mezzogiorno, in order to resolve the southern issue. [[Applause from the AL-A Group (MpA).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u30	I inform you that the deadline for tabling amendments has expired at 5.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u31	We greet professors and students of the Institute of Higher Education Riccardo Lotti-Umberto I of Andria, in the province of Barletta-Andria-Trani, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u34	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's efforts over the years could certainly be better, wider and more incisive in order to produce more significant results. It is true that in the last two years there has been minimal economic growth and an increase - even this minimum - in employment. The government, however, will still have a lot to do: it must pay more attention to investments, both public and private, depending on the forecast of an increase in gross domestic product (the forecast of increase of 1% is for 2016 while for 2017 you reach 1.1 percent). Unfortunately, these numbers are small, but thanks to this increase we can have an improvement in the debt-to-domestic ratio, thanks also to a reduction in debt that seems to predict a 0.3%; as Senator Fornaro also recalled, however, it is enough that we can not increase GDP which, as a result, the ratio does not return. However, the most difficult task remains to create jobs. Unemployment is expected to be 11.4% this year; for 2017 it is expected to be 10.9%: this is also half-way down, but compared to the millions of unemployed who face the challenge it becomes difficult and important. Active labour policies are struggling to get off the ground; not enough is done to make the most of our human capital and, above all, our young people, and has not yet responded in a concrete way to the problem of outgoing flexibility towards work and those who want to retire. There is a long way to go to try to find even the so much submerged money that runs in our country. Therefore, greater control, greater legality; to stem evasion and corruption, to recover VAT, as Senator Guerra also recalled. We must, therefore, become a more credible and reliable country in the eyes of Europe, but above all for our country, to increase our well-being and make sure that the last of the line lives dignifiedly; the road is therefore uphill. However, we of Italy of the Values believe that the Government has undertaken a correct way of responding to this requirement; consequently, as we have already done for the law of stability, we will give our vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u37	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the Italian growth recorded over the last year is endangered by negative factors determined by an international context that presents a set of problems that also inexorably affect our country, and not only its economic growth but also its security. This led to a downward revision of growth estimates compared to last autumn's Update Note and a more gradual return plan towards the medium-term objective. Added to these factors - as we have had the opportunity and opportunity to discuss, together with the Deputy Minister, in the Commission - are also the critical issues arising in relation to the methodology adopted by the European Commission for the calculation of potential growth and output gap at the basis of the estimate of the structural balance of public finances. This methodology - it should be reiterated in this House - as repeatedly supported by the Government and as reported in the DEF itself, provides understated results, which deviate from other calculation methodologies such as those followed by the OECD, with the result that with this latter methodology, unlike the other, we would have reached the medium-term objective already in 2015. The objectives proposed by the Document are therefore strongly influenced by these factors and by what happens outside our borders, requiring a broader reflection. Phenomenas like those of migratory pressure are creating enormous problems and are putting European cohesion into crisis and the recent vote in Austria is proof of this. The news that today comes from Brenner is quite alarming: we are talking about networks that will be put in place and the fact that Austria would even want to allocate the army and this is something that must concern not only the North of the country, but the whole of Italy and Europe as a whole. These factors also affect the economy. Our country, because of its geographical position, is in fact one of the countries most exposed to this migratory flow, but it is also the one that has a stronger culture of reception. Europe has demonstrated itself and is proving unprepared and is in danger of breaking down because of the political initiatives being taken by the individual Member States of the Union, which show a strong concern for the migratory flow that drives them to take counter-actions against the spirit of unity and solidarity that should instead animate the European Union. Difficulties which are aggravated by general economic difficulties, such as the risk of a future exit - in the near future - by Britain itself from the Union or the Greek question that has re-exploded these days. The limits of this institution are therefore becoming increasingly evident, which cannot overcome the nationalist pressures which are regularly reflected in times of difficulty. An institution that does not actually have the necessary powers to combat crisis situations when they arise, also because of a diversity of government cultures, while today it would be highly desirable to have a common European policy in strategic areas such as the EU's foreign policy, economic and fiscal policy. The efforts that our Government is making in this regard are extremely useful and fundamental and must be supported. In particular, with regard to economic and financial aspects, a single Ministry or, in any case, a coordination of fiscal policies - as the Deputy Minister himself said earlier here - the absence of which represents a serious handicap for the eurozone. From the document to our examination there is thus some caution with respect to the Update Note of September; a concern due not only to the factors just mentioned, but also to what is happening in the major emerging countries, where their prospects of economic growth are slowing down, negatively influencing the entire world economy, forced everywhere to revise downwards the estimates of development and general growth. The decline in exports and the consequent decline in production in our country is also linked to the slowdown of large emerging economies. Although we are not faced with the acute phase of the crisis that started back in 2008, these difficulties weigh on Europe, which has slowed down its growth process just begun and which in recent months had made us hope well, in part frustrating the efforts made by the ECB through the monetary lever. A country like Italy that has a high public debt (even if after eight years it has a decrease of 0.3 percentage points and that during the reference period of the DEF is even expected to fall by almost 9 percentage points and we have to say this forcefully) is a country that obviously suffers more from the adverse shocks of the economy. We must therefore recognise that the Government and Parliament are playing their part in all these uncertain situations. In particular, there is the Government's commitment to sterilize the safeguard clauses in the next budgetary manoeuvre through the use of the required flexibility spaces. A number of measures have been adopted in relation to the past. The reform process, which is going on so stubbornly and whose effects will be seen over time, is a process that has costs, not only of course in economic terms but also in social terms. In this regard, we believe that, in order to make an effective contribution to what is being done also in recent months in order to ensure a better future for our country, effective cultural action is necessary. We are recovering, but expectations are still many, perhaps too many, yet no government in a globalized economy can be said to be immune, let alone ours that does not possess the magic wand and that obviously cannot cancel the negative external influences. Hence the need to boost economic recovery with stimulus policies and the DEF 2016 fits perfectly into the multi-annual economic planning strategy undertaken, which has as its main objectives the revival of growth and employment. After two years of government it is possible to make a first budget. At the heart of this policy are institutional reforms, which aim to allow for greater political stability, a prerequisite for taking measures that will have their effect in the medium and long term. In this respect, Parliament and the Government have already adopted a number of measures aimed, inter alia, at simplifying the structure of public administration. This is a reform that we believe to be crucial, especially as regards revisiting expenditure. An important lever is the commitment to unlock public works, also through the revision of the procedures for awarding contracts, which require greater transparency and above all controls, in order to avoid corruptive phenomena that unfortunately still afflict our country. Shared is therefore the conservative estimate adopted by the Government on growth for 2016, entrusting the prospect of improvement to the next three years in view of the planned interventions. Important will be the stimulus to the investments that the Government will be able to realize even in the presence of an uncertain international economic context. Much has been done in recent years and, last but not least, with the law of stability for 2016 and much will have to be done, especially to promote foreign investment. The interventions approved in recent years are offering the first results. Of course, not like those expected in terms of falling unemployment, but this also shows that there is renewed confidence and a partial recovery in public and private investment. The index of tax pressure marks a decrease which gives hope for the future and for the policy of reducing the tax burden itself, which the Government intends to implement both towards citizens and businesses. We hope, given the results achieved in terms of growth, that the reduction of the tax wedge will become a permanent measure and that special attention will be paid to the weakest groups in the review of tax redistribution. To this end, a contribution can come from an energetic policy of combating tax evasion and avoidance. A particularly sensitive issue, both for reasons of fairness and for the effects on public opinion, and we are particularly pleased to know that in the reformative action of the Government will be planned the annual presentation, together with the Update Note to the DEF, of the Report on the results achieved in terms of combating evasion and the new strategies planned. An important contribution can also come from the announced e-invoicing between private individuals. This will allow greater control over indirect tax revenue. There will also be important measures to simplify civil justice, which is also aimed at speeding up the disposal of non-performing loans by banks, which is a very important factor in restarting a credit policy. The same privatisations that have been planned for the coming years, although there is caution in the general context, are clearly part of a policy of debt reduction that we share. Finally, the greater margins of flexibility that today interest us Italians, in the future could also be demanded by those countries with a lower public debt. I make this statement because according to an authoritative German foundation, Stiftung Marktwirtschaft - and I say this above all in the light of what was said yesterday by the President of the Bundesbank right here in Italy - total Italian public debt is the only one in the European Union to be, in the long term, the most sustainable (under the 60% of GDP threshold). Total public debt means not only the explicit one, that is, the one we inherited from the past, but also the implicit one, which is given by pension commitments, future health costs and social costs linked to the ageing population. From this point of view, the reforms made in recent years in Italy, even by previous governments, give us the opportunity to have a much more sustainable debt than the German one. What is meant is that probably this flexibility risks being demanded today by Italy and, in perspective, also by those who today think they have their backs covered. In conclusion, the Parliamentary Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE trusts in the economic and financial policy outlined by the DEF and will therefore vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by the majority group leaders. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u40	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, fellow Senators, representatives of the Government, the Senators of the Italian Left - SEL component will vote against the DEF and the motion for a resolution tabled by the majority and of course in favour of motion for resolution No 1 that we have tabled, first of all because the DEF 2016 proposes the same policies pursued by this Government over the last two years. I am thinking, in short, of reducing public expenditure (the good and not the waste cuts), of relaunching an idea of privatisations, of increasing the tax burden on the middle class and the popular classes, of the indiscriminate and not distinctive cut of taxes on companies, of supporting private investment through tax reductions and the precariousness of the labour market. It is now clear that these policies are absolutely ineffective and cannot promote growth, create stable and lasting work, reduce the enormous public debt and curb the growth of poverty and social hardship. However, this time the presence of a very careful communication strategy by the Government and Renzi to capture the consensus and the announcements on the end of austerity and growth are no longer able to have the effects of before, because of the increasing absence of economic policies that really aim at overcoming the crisis and austerity and aimed at a development that offers well-being and social progress. There are no serious employment policies and there is no real industrial policy on television. The DEF under consideration is, even more than in the past, a container of approximate, uneven and contradictory indications from which four basically emerge, beginning with the constant revision of macroeconomic forecasts, always revised downwards (the growth of 1.2% was expected to be 1.6% in the Update Note). Minister Padoan himself said that some forecasts were optimistic. There is also a general and hypocritical criticism of the criteria by which the European Stability Pact is calculated and the consequent quantification of how much more room for policy-making public finance is to be sought from the European Union. Finally, there are a long list of overestimated effects of the reforms undertaken by the Government and, finally, a great deal of greed on every detail concerning the measures to implement the objectives contained in the DEF, which were usually learned only at the last moment with the presentation, in autumn, of the Update Note and of the law of stability. 18.08 (Followed by Mr De PETRIS). As for the economic outlook, I said before the DEF 2016 revises the estimates of downward GDP growth compared to those foreseen in the Update Note, also rewriting those on the deficit in a global framework of uncomfortable uncertainty and general untrustworthyness, corroborated by the successive assessments provided by the International Monetary Fund, the OECD, the Bank of Italy, the ISTAT and other authoritative economic observers. The figures are deteriorating, unrealistic and excessively optimistic, such as those on unemployment. The resources will mainly come from new spending cuts and planned cuts in tax breaks. Despite the much praised end of austerity, new sacrifices are expected and further expansion of the measures regarding spending review as if, with the previous maneuvers, we had not already cut 25 billion euros, implementing a maneuver that is based on a mix of interventions to review public expenditure and cuts in tax relief. On this very subject, I would like to add the non-specified other instruments to combat evasion and avoidance, which should ensure that net debt is reached of 1.8% of GDP. Let us remember, however, that the planned revision of the facilities, therefore of the tax expenditures, will in fact result in another increase in the tax burden for the middle class and for the less well-off classes, since they are cuts to all the tax benefits on the home and the family, such as the expenses for mortgages, for health care and more. The reduction of the IRES rate under the last Stability Act is also unfair to us. In a country still tight from the grip of the crisis and with an unemployment rate of more than 11%, a general reduction in profit tax compared to the measures on IRAP and decontribution, which at least intervened on costs, albeit in a non-selective way, appears to be an unjustified gift. The DEF also describes the stages of tax delegation, without identifying in the fight against tax evasion (which produces a lack of revenue estimated at between 90 and 180 billion euros per year, despite the Government does not hesitate from boasting the positive trend of recovery, equal in 2015, according to the Government, to 14,9 billion, failing moreover to say that more than half of these sums derive from taxes declared and not paid or from simple material errors) and in an organic strategy for the structural reduction of the same the real keystone to counter the public debt and get out of the ford. In this situation, the objective of reducing the tax on the incomes of workers and pensioners and of taking support for the family as a factor of greater distribution equity must be pursued by changing the composition of the levy, compensating for the lower revenue by revising the taxes which affect rents and consumption. A complementary path leading to a revision of the way in which property and assets are taxed. The government should stop being obnoxious and should face up to this situation. Continuing on the other supporting axis of this deliberately smoky DEF, overestimated assessments are made of the effects of the reforms that have been put in place. I would like to mention only those relating to employment. In 2015, employment growth could be defined as doped or drugged, which had some shy results only in the face of substantial tax reductions for businesses, which thus had a placebo effect on employment. Already today, in 2016, there is a decline in contracts, just coinciding with the decrease in tax reductions. Public administration boasts spending rewiew, but in reality this has been supported by workers and workers in the public service. Not surprisingly, between 2009 and 2015, public employee income expenditure decreased by 10 billion euros and the number of civil servants decreased by 110,000 units. Not to mention the blockage of turnover in the public administration, which has not resulted in effective rationalisation and improved services and performance. The data is very clear, as far as we're concerned. The jobs act did not work for workers in the age groups of 15 to 49 years and - as I said before - employment data were drugged by decontribution. Moreover, in this DEF - many have mentioned it - there is no trace of policies for the Mezzogiorno. The chapter on research, school and university not only does not give any particular surprise, but does not mention the current state of school, university and public research. Italy proceeds in the largest and most systematic operation of destruction of the education, university and research system, investing less than 1% of its GDP in research and development. Not to mention social policies. I find the policies that are being put in place to combat poverty ridiculous (we have talked about this many times). In the face of an increase of about one third of citizens with income below the poverty line, the government proposes to give a little relief to about 280,000 families, compared to the one and a half million families in poverty. As for health expenditure, the data are fresh and for the first time tell us that there is a decrease in life expectancy. Perhaps we will have to give a serious thought to what our health expenditure is in relation to GDP, which is decreasing more and more. There is no mention of this, as there is no mention in the DEF in the environmental field. The few positive measures have been approved, but they are not eligible for government action, and we could talk about this for a long time. There is nothing about the changes and very little about commuters, therefore a failure of these policies that are reproduced in the DEF. For us as the Italian Left, we should really change step and change the horizon of economic policies, abandoning austerity policies and putting a system of expansionary policies at the centre of our choices. We need an extraordinary green work plan, as described in our resolution; we need to tackle the issue of the Mezzogiorno at the heart of the matter. We propose that the so-called Ciampi clause be re-introduced: a destination constraint of 45% of the total resources for investment in the Mezzogiorno. We also need serious policies on school, university, research. In the environmental field, we voted on a motion for the stabilisation of ecobonus. The direction is that: a new extraordinary energy plan and the general transport plan. In short, we really need a radical change of pace because we have had so much propaganda and exaltation of reforms that have not produced results from the point of view of the country's growth. It is absolutely necessary to change the general structure of economic policies and to focus, as on the extraordinary level of green work, on those works and on those investments that, as we have already seen, are the only ones able to give answers and make employment grow seriously. For all these reasons, we shall vote against the DEF and in favour of our resolution. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u43	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this year's Economic and Financial Document is the first real reversal of our country's trend since the economic crisis in recent years. In 2015, gross domestic product increased, unemployment and taxes decreased, and structural reforms for the country are being approved and implemented. In other words, Italy is back in motion and has finally returned to growth. What has been done so far has been a fundamental reversal of the trend, but at the same time it can only be the first in a series of positive points for a full and consolidated recovery. We are satisfied with the reforms that have been implemented so far, with measures to boost employment and investment. But all this can only be a stimulus for Parliament and the Government to continue along the reform path. Far from making us feel satisfied, the past year must form the basis for a more solid and structured development, involving all sectors of the country. The majority and the government are well aware that the obstacles to be overcome in order to achieve a full recovery are still multiple and rooted for too long in our country system. The hearings of institutional and industrial actors held by the parliamentary committees have shown this: the government's macroeconomic estimates, if they appear realistic and acceptable, must take into account the risks of potential less favourable developments, especially because of an international, geopolitical and economic, unstable framework. The euro area, despite encouraging and positive signs, has not shown a tendency to prevent a prolonged phase of stagnation and deflation. Taking into account all these variables, the DEF 2016 has traced a future path that combines a new approach to finding resources with spending modes that multiply growth capacities. The safeguard clauses for 2017 will have to be defused and no new ones will be placed to guarantee the public accounts. It is important to act, as set out in the DEF, with a targeted and structural spending review and to adopt an expansive approach to Europe's strict budgetary discipline. The resources thus obtained will be used to finance a new reduction in the tax burden and to gradually ensure the return to the macroeconomic parameters agreed with Europe, first and foremost the progressive reduction of public debt. In fact, the reduction of the debt ratio has become a strategic objective of economic policy over the last two years. If in 2015 it has continued to grow, albeit slightly, 2016 will have to be the year in which the debt will begin its descent, especially in view of the fact that the low interest rates that Italy has been able to benefit from in recent months cannot last much longer. It has been rightly pointed out, however, how this reduction will have to proceed more quickly and decisively so that our country maintains, and indeed attracts, new credit from the markets and further removes the risks of exposure to a crisis of mistrust and possible speculative attacks. The new climate of confidence in our economic and political institutions is fuelled by the recovery of employment and the improvement of the purchasing power of families. The latter are the cores to be supported in the reconstruction of the social fabric: important measures have already been taken in the sector, such as the baby bonus and the family card. These tools, which have been successfully tested, need to be improved and enhanced, e.g. by changing the parameters for accessing the baby bonus to extend the audience of potential beneficiaries. Given the demographic data on the birth rate and the ageing of the Italian population, it seems appropriate to develop new fiscal incentive policies, for example by introducing the ISEE family quotient in the calculation and excluding the value of the first home for the weakest households from it. On the other hand, in the delicate balance between the necessary restructuring of public finances and the stimulus to growth, we cannot overlook the propulsive part of this DEF. The increase in investments is part of a positive trend that sees our country reactivate: Italy is first in Europe to use the funds of the Juncker plan, exploiting a financing of 1.7 billion euros for 29 initiatives and infrastructure projects. In view of the so-called leverage effect, it is estimated that some 12 billion can be invested and some 3,200 new jobs created. Moreover, the masterplan for the Mezzogiorno, which testifies the attention for the South, proceeds in a positive direction with the recent signature in Campania of the first pact - of the fifteen totals necessary - to revive the South, combining both national and European resources. The cross-cutting issue of infrastructure should also be mentioned. This is a chapter that must necessarily include the construction of the bridge over the Strait of Messina, which will represent the culmination of a long process aimed at realizing the commitment made by the Government regarding the complete overcoming of the infrastructural gap that separates the South from the rest of our country. Finally, the emphasis on the full use of EU funds from past programming 2007-2013 is positive, which has enabled Italy to take full advantage of the development possibilities offered by the Union and too many times lost because of our shortcomings. The country is also demonstrating to the most intransigent parts of the European Union how the Italian reformer commitment is based on solid projects and is bringing the first results: labour reform, measures to restructure the banking system to protect citizens, school reform are just some of the first points put to the mark. Public administration, as well as the justice sector, has been the subject of a process of profound innovation over the past few months, which is necessary to optimise resources and services for citizens. In conclusion, 2016 must represent the stimulus to continue with more conviction on the way of development now undertaken. I would like to thank the Government and, if I may, also the majority, because at this time of great difficulty it took courage to draft this DEF and I am also referring to the possibility of early retirement in the private sector. It took courage and prudence, determination and awareness, innovation and thoughtfulness. We can therefore only vote firmly in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u46	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, Deputy Minister Morando, the propaganda on ISTAT data has already done so on TG1, because Director Renzi has already given the order, from 13.30 to 17, to give the other lie of the day, that is that taxes on companies have decreased by 11% (now seem numerous). We speak in terms of rates: from 2014 to 2016 the combined IRAP-IRES has decreased by 0.3 points, from 33.1 to 32.8 percent. I want to specify this fact, because when Renzi came here because he had to talk about the European Council I made this exception to him and I told him about this fictitious decrease, saying that he was all in favour of large companies. In fact, in the mechanism of deductions and deductions, 22% of the many small enterprises are just incompetent and these companies are almost all in the South. By the way, IRAP's shares were not already paid. So I asked him: is this decrease really only for his friend Marchionne? Thus, in the press release of ISTAT, it is specified that, in reality, as the size of the enterprise increases, the relief increases, and therefore the small ones, as always, remain outside. I received an idiotic reply from Prime Minister Renzi, because that idiot of the Premier - allow me - told me that the 80 euros to Marchionne did not give them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I tell myself then: not only does he have visions, because he sees owls everywhere, but instead - look, I'm not the one to talk like this - he's the one who wears an iella. We've even lived less since he's been here. In the DEF there is certainly something written in black and white: from this year, terrible cuts to health: more than EUR 1.5 billion this year, EUR 3.5 billion next year and then EUR 5 billion under the regime. And you also have the arrogance to say on television that it is not true, yet you have written it. The percentage of health spending on GDP is the lowest in Europe and still decreases, because in your amazing forecasts GDP is expected to increase by 2.8% and health spending by only 1.5%. Instead of showing all this arrogance with the Italian people, with those who finally ask for a little'respect and care, because it is always falling behind, then why not maybe use it with the president of the Bundesbank, who treated you as shammers (with all respect for shammers), because he told you: "you can't make fiscal policies, I don't want to do anything with you"? But who appointed him, who elected him here in Italy to come and tell us what we have to do? But why don't you think about Deutsche Bank, the 75,000 billion derivatives, of which 34 are already garbage? Why don't you think about your house? Because we have a government of clowns, we have a government that talks about comics, that talks about owls and that doesn't talk about serious things. It tells us that employment is increasing. But I say, the ISTAT data, the February data, which says that the employees have decreased by 33% we ate them? The TG1 why didn't you remember them? The editor of TG1, or the "PD1," doesn't say that. And then we read that in the resolutions of the Democratic Party there is the masterplan for the South. Who are you kidding? You're plundering the South! With the decontribution you have created a hole in the INPS accounts, because by favoring the transformations you have made sure that the big companies, the young Marchionne, those that run fast so much there is the Government that gives, they have transformed the contracts, so much then in three years they send you home, having abolished Article 18 with the contract to increasing protections. But you have made sure that those who paid before the contributions now do not pay them. For the same worker we no longer have the contributions, and companies, to which you now claim to have more confidence because they should pay less taxes, actually have gone from 8,000 euros of reductions to 3,250 per employee hired. But against this you have eliminated Law 407 of 1990 that favored new hirings, especially for artisan enterprises throughout the national territory, not only for the South. You lie when you say that and it cost less than a billion. This favours Marchionne instead costs 12 to the general taxation and to the pockets of the Italians. The Court of Auditors has said that, if you switch the VAT rate from 10% to 22%, we could recover about 5 billion, which you have to use to defuse the safeguard clauses to block yourself because you put them, your governments, including Renzi's, for the electoral march of 80 euros for Europeans. So, what did you say? If he comes from Parliament then we will think about it. We are saying that VAT should be increased from 10% to 22% on meat, eggs, rice and cereals. We have twice as many poor people as Germany, and you tell me about the manufacture. Do you know why the 5 Star Movement, in full coherence, will also say no to the relationship for the deviation? We don't pay for the Democratic Party propaganda. We do not pay a government that says to remove the IRES first, then the IRAP and then give 80 euros to pensioners. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We don't pay the Democratic Party electoral marches. We don't pay a minister contacted by phone through the compañero from Total to mind his own business. We don't owe this; we don't pay the President of the Democratic Party of Campania who gave contracts to the Casalesi. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We don't want the debt for that. We will really do the productive debt and the real deviation to increase consumption. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Consumption increases by helping those who are behind and those who do not now consume with the income of citizenship, which exists throughout Europe [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and lowering taxes on those who maintain this country. Always talk about tax evasion and avoidance; go to the banks, insurance companies, to the father of Boschi and Renzi who did business with the father of Boschi. That's what you need to talk about. Should we give the detour and then make the funds to help the banks and then not give back the malt to those who were conned by the Minister's father? Are you kidding me? It is clear that we will say no in full transparency and quietly. Let's talk about tax expenditure now. The New Right Center says it wants to help the family; however, it is necessary to say well to the families of Italians that you want to help those of two children onward. For the others, however, with the deduction of dependent spouse, how will it end? In the delegation of the jobs act you have put it that you will go to revise that deduction. You wrote it; you approved the jobs act, not us. Contrary to what you have done so far with the spending review, deductions and tax expenditure you are not making the linear cut for a simple reason: so one point would cost only 200 million, but you need to recover as much as 15 billion. So where's the fat? In the deduction to employee labour, in the deduction for pensioners and in the deduction for dependent family members. Tell that to the Italians. Go on television and speak clearly. When you go on television to always give crazy to the 5 Star Movement, which you accuse because it always says no, you also say why. We - I repeat - are now offended by the way this Government communicates, by its way of vexing journalism without allowing reply but only to hear propaganda and then the citizen feels almost guilty of being still poor. We had tabled a resolution which we were sure would not be accepted and approved. We have entrusted this speech with a prayer to the President of the Senate and to the entire Government here deployed: that we can at least discuss our draft law at the first signature of Senator Michela Montevecchi, who finally provides for the overcoming of the Stability Pact with regard to social expenditure. Shall we discuss this? I want to hear you say yes or no. You have to do it in the face of the Italians. With this explanation of vote we are voting against this DEF and the report on the deviation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u49	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Forza Italia will vote decisively against the forecasts contained in this document of economy and finance. We are now at the third document produced by this Government, and I must say that music does not change. In 2014 an optimistic approach could be justified, almost of hope on the performance of the country's accounts and on the dynamics of the international macro-economy. When, however, we realize that while the dynamics of the international macro-economy have helped - and not a little - the accounts of Italy, and Italy has failed to monetize this aid, to improve its budgetary parameters or to produce a document that today can be considered exhaustive of a positive result obtained, we cannot then endorse a document that is the photocopy of the precedents. Like the previous ones, in fact, this DEF nourishes only of hope; of current data that is forced to bring back in a dramatic way - we will see - and of forecast data that instead live, precisely, of optimism and hope. All the national and international economic bodies have rejected, in no uncertain terms, the excessive optimism of these forecasts; they have said that there are risks inherent both in the dynamics of the national economy and in that of the international economy; a serious government cannot fail to take these risks into account and that therefore some forecasts, beyond the same commercials that the Premier proposes to us daily - and that we do not even find much reported in the content of this document - should not take place to avoid not only creating expectations but also to prevent that, in the wake of expectations, some interventions really take place that would greatly worsen our accounts. Unfortunately for the Government, the data of this first quarter of 2016 certify the absolute inadequacy of the forecasts and above all of the policies put in place by this Government. Just think about employment, investment, credit and export data: we have had a fall in exports. All the data tell us that this collapse is mainly due to the closure of the Russian market, which is the subject of incredible sanctions by the European Union, and we continue to go to Europe to demand the enlargement of our flexibility, that is to say to do more debt than to claim to be able to freely resume economic relations with a country where the closure of the markets has led to a collapse of 5% of our world exports. We continue to feed public spending which does not diminish. I regret to have to go against the excellent rapporteur and Deputy Minister Morando, whom I thank for the cooperation they have given to the 5th Commission, as well as I take the opportunity to thank the Senators Mandelli, Ceroni, Zuffada and Gibiino who have spoken this morning, explaining a large part of the reasons that lead us to consider this document absolutely useless and I would like to say dangerous. In one thing I agree with Senator Gualdani: it takes courage, Senator Gualdani, to present this type of document to Parliament and above all to the nation. Public expenditure does not decrease because we look at the absolute value; we cannot look at the relative value, in view of GDP whose growth is forecast and is not real. The tax burden doesn't decrease. In the correction note that the Government has sent us, it has been understood that, even beyond the good will to give a positive figure, in the end the tax pressure has decreased by 0.1 percent. A 0.1 of tax pressure does not compensate for what Italians pay in an officially different form from tax pressure, but what tax pressure it always is. I am referring to the tariffs on local authorities' services: we have had an average 20% increase on national territory in the rates on waste and water services, which pass through tariffs, but which, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, are in the bills that come to the homes of citizens every day and which lead to an increase in expenditure on the public sector. The citizen does not care whether it is tax, tax or fare: the citizen knows that it increases the burden that the public sector is asking for for for the management of the public thing. The public debt does not diminish and even the balance of the budget is postponed. Perhaps, from this point of view (I am referring to Senator Lezzi's line on scaramanzia) someone will have told the President of the Council that the only time that in the history of the country the balance was reached, in 1876, that government fell miserably under the blows of an opposing election; therefore we postpone: it may be that reason. Unfortunately, however, that is not the reason; the reason is that we cannot reduce the impact of public debt on gross domestic product and that all the parameters - said yesterday the President of the Bundesbank, but we did not need him to say so, because we repeated it in our institutional fora in every way - that mountain of ice that hinders the country's path, nobody wants to consider it. It is as if this government were on the Titanic that goes towards the iceberg, without wanting to consider that this iceberg exists and that unfortunately will involve the sinking all over the country, continuing to always play the same music, as the chronicles tell us: the music of an expansive maneuver made of current expenditure and not investment. I would like to say to Senator Ruvolo: dear friend, your saving image of someone who can solve the problems of the Mezzogiorno - and of our Sicily, in particular - should go ahead with a concrete act, that of the return of four and a half billion investments stolen from the Mezzogiorno with the law of stability for 2015 in favour of the decontribution on new assumptions [[Applause from Senator Alicata]] : from investments, hence from the creation of structural wealth to ephemeral current expenditure, because in three years' time that measure will expire and - as has already been told by someone who preceded me - will create an employment bubble that will see the unemployment of our country recreate irremediably, immediately. So what are we talking about in this document? Of a bad photocopy of the previous and previous, of the same refrain that sounds, of a vision of economic policy that, among other things, is a distorted and ganghered Keynesian model policy; at least Keynes, that we do not share, but that you have always taken as a model, claimed the utility of public investment for growth. In this case, however, you want to support the usefulness of public current spending, which should be conducive to growth. But the data of these days are absolutely incontrovertible. It is a war bulletin that comes out every day: the data of ISTAT, the unplanned expenditure, the debt that does not decrease and the tax pressure that increases; without considering, as I said initially, the risk factors to which all the third institutions have reminded us, including the parliamentary budgetary office, that rightly must note the criticalities and transmit them to Parliament. Everyone tells us that the international economy could deteriorate and therefore there may no longer be savings on the interests of public debt, there could be a higher oil price, there could be a dollar with a different exchange rate ratio with the euro. And we, before all this, do not feel that we have to take any caution! It is truly unconscious this forecast document which, unfortunately, will accompany sad days.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u50	Senator, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u51	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am. We do not know what awaits us in the next law of stability while we would like to know it first. In our motion for a resolution we would have asked, if the Government had ever wanted to draw any ideas, to know in time what measures will be taken under the next Stability Act. I understand, because I live daily, the suffering of the Government, even in the Commission; I understand that the clothes are very tight, but unfortunately these clothes are turning into rags that barely cover the body of Italians. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u54	Mr Guerrieri Paleopti (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in my brief speech, I would like to explain the reasons for the Democratic Group's vote in favour of the Economic and Financial Document and the motions for resolutions tabled by the majority group leaders. This morning, in the debate, Senator Santini and other speeches focused very effectively on specific issues, so I will just look at some general aspects of this document and I would like to start with the international and European context, because it is essential to understand the trends contained in this document. It is important to stress that everything has changed in the space of a few months, at an international level. Until last year, we expected a solid international demand and instead there was the collapse of developments in emerging areas, in particular the strong slowdown of the Chinese economy. We expected positive effects from depreciation in the exchange rate of the euro and instead we had devaluations in emerging areas, which largely offset the strong dollar. We expected expansive financial conditions and actually, at the beginning of this year, there were developments in the financial markets, after the collapse of the stock exchanges, which shook financial activities in the United States and Europe. If we do not take these changes into account, it is difficult to understand the lines of economic policy strategy contained in the DEF. It must also be understood that developments at international level can be explained by the fact that there is a shortage of demand for consumption and investment at global level, against which the economic policy of governments has so far done very little and the entire burden of growth has poured into the monetary policies of the central banks, with the known limits of monetary policy, which can create liquidity and stimulate financial activities, but much less and very little the real economy. Europe has also slowed down in this context, although growth has continued. It is true that tax policies in Europe are now less restrictive and that there has even been a relative increase in domestic spending in Germany, in order to encourage the reception of refugees: this is certainly something, but much less than what would be necessary. Much more can be done, in particular by looking for greater asymmetries in fiscal policies and above all by stimulating an investment policy at European level, going beyond the so-called positive Juncker plan. These are investments that our government has been strongly demanding for a long time in Brussels and that are able to fill the gap between weak demand and an offer in search of recovery. Here, the DEF must be read in this context, because in this context we understand the trend picture contained in the Economic and Finance Document and the programmatic framework that the Government aims to achieve. First of all, the economic policy strategy that is being reaffirmed, since it has had some success, that of putting growth at the centre, as an objective to be pursued and looking at the consolidation of public finance as a constraint: it is an important reversal of trend that has taken place now in the last two years, a strategy that is also following many other European countries after the failure of policies all focused on austerity, which pursued the reduction of debt and then ended up increasing it. 18.45 p.m. (PALEopti Warriors followed). It is true that in this strategy the nominal and real growth rate is of particular importance and the Government has been serious in reviewing the forecasts in the light of the European international context to which I have referred. The nominal and real growth dynamics are somewhat uncertain. The government's forecast is - it is true - on a high level, but it must be added immediately that a cautious line is being reiterated with regard to the government deficit. Indeed, a decrease from 2.6% in 2016 to 2.3%, to 1.8%, represents a trend deficit higher than expected, but is justified by the need to support the path of the economy; hence Parliament's request to postpone structural adjustment by one year. It should be remembered that if we are talking in Italy about a public deficit of around 2%, this year France, Spain and Portugal travel with public deficits of between 4% and 5%. So let's evaluate what we're doing also in the light of these developments. Of course, we are not satisfied with this growth dynamic. We want to do more and we need to do more, first of all by trying to stimulate the external factors that I have referred to and that we need to continue to pursue, but also by trying to do more inside. We know the ancient evils that penalize our capacity for growth: they are called low productivity, production specialisation not adequate for a great change taking place at international and European level and also a structure of enterprise that is still too fragmented. These are ancient evils on which we are intervening: some important things have been done, but other things and other interventions must of course be launched. This means making the best use of all available tax areas, taking into account European constraints, with the measures that have already been announced. These spaces must be used especially with regard to investment and - it has been said and it is right to say so - also the possibility of further reducing taxes on labour and production. All this must, of course, be directed towards strengthening the growth capacity of our economy, which - it should be remembered - must be stimulated as a whole and above all as far as our Mezzogiorno is concerned. With regard to these available tax areas, the DEF contains in-depth criticisms and reasoned proposals regarding the modification of the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact currently in force at European level. As we know, European rules have become too complex to manage and are often incomprehensible and in some way even unclear. It is therefore good news that came from the last informal meeting of the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance (Ecofin) in Amsterdam on a sort of green light for the reform of the Stability Pact. As our Government asks, the intention is to reduce the indicators and focus on those that are able to be better managed. I am thinking, for example, of the evolution of public expenditure which would allow us to overcome the questionable procedures by which we calculate both the potential product and the structural deficit. It is worth remembering that the objective is not to loosen the rules. We really want rules that are practicable because we, like the other countries in the euro area, need them. But we want rules that are easier to respect and, above all, easier to explain to the public. Hence, from this point of view, the review work has just begun; it will take time and we do not even know what results will be produced. Of course a positive outcome is desirable because it would open spaces of maneuver that our country could benefit first for the purposes of the relaunch of investments and growth, of which I have spoken in some way before and which are then objectives reiterated and contained in this document. It is for these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, that I reiterate the support and support of the Democratic Party Group for the DEF and for the motions for resolutions tabled by the majority group leaders. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u55	We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. I would warn you that an absolute majority of the members of the Assembly is required for this resolution. Therefore, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 100, tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to motion for a resolution No 5 to the Economic and Financial Document, accepted by the Government, on which amendments have been tabled, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u56	Mr President, this is the first DEF since the SVIMEZ report on the Mezzogiorno, published on 27 October 2015, which deals with a country that is fundamentally divided. I have already pointed out that there is a southern issue within the southern question, which concerns education and training in the southern regions: right to study, educational poverty, number of university registrations, number of graduates, number of students who have scholarships. Well, what is needed is a real Marshall plan for education and high training in the Mezzogiorno regions. In the incomplete many pages of the masterplan on the Mezzogiorno that we find in the DEF there is no mention of this very serious issue. That is why my amendment 5.3, in general terms, aims to introduce the very foundations of what I have called a true Marshall Plan, by providing targeted actions on the southern regions in support of education and high training, universities, research institutions, students and researchers working in these research institutions of the southern regions. Amendment 5.16, which I would like to take the opportunity to explain, Mr President, provides for much more specific measures, which define in detail what this plan of interventions should be, in particular a recruitment plan for universities and research institutions at national level, which includes reserved quotas, once again, for universities and research organisations in the southern regions. If we are to rebalance the country, it is clear that we must provide for appropriate measures and dedicated quotas for the institutions operating in the regions of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. 18.59 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u57	Madam President, all this document we are discussing basically sets out how to allocate resources and where to recover them. We have heard so many speeches and a great deal of concern that there is always a risk that the safeguard clauses will take place, which for every taxpayer would like to say an economic sledgehammer. I propose to the House something that has no cost and does not touch anyone's rights. We are talking about the new ASPI, that is, unemployment benefit, which has a double meaning, a double function. First of all, it allows those who lose a job or, in any case, those who have a seasonal job (the two sectors most affected are agriculture and tourism, which for obvious reasons have a swinging nature) and who, for a period, do not work, do not receive a salary, to have an allowance for this period when they do not work. Is that just assistance? First of all, it is something due, because the worker's family has to live twelve months a year; it is not only assistance, because that family has to consume, it has to live, eat and spend, so there is an economic return. It is a bit like a flywheel: it gives some help that comes back in the form of consumption. But what happens if this money comes out of the country? We are talking about the foreign workers who work for a period of time, after which, since there are no controls, they return home. At home with this allowance they live like the nababbi, because they come mostly from countries - think of the countries of the East - where the cost of living is at least a quarter of the expense of an Italian family. We do not touch anyone's rights: these allowances can be paid continuously on a condition, that these families live and spend this money in Italy, and that in our country there is this return of economy. There is no need to do anything other than to touch only the criteria of payment; the allowance must not be paid once, after which the citizen returns to his home and who knows if he will return to Italy, but must be paid systematically and cyclically every month. That citizen, that worker must stay in Italy, monthly he must go to collect what is due to him, he will sign and at this point we know that that subsidy serves to make a family living that is not Italian but lives in Italy and that he will spend that money in Italy. Otherwise, this money comes out, escapes, there is no flying effect, lacks that minimum return to our country, which would be a mockery. Let's not be fooled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u58	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u59	I am against all the amendments, in some cases because they express with more and more details already contained in the resolution, and in other cases because they are not acceptable to the resolution's address.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u60	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u61	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.1 tabled by Senator Comaroli. Let's make sure there's no cards a senator doesn't match. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u64	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, Mr Bonfrisco's amendment 5.4 is interesting. It consists of four parts which are disconnected from each other: we would like to vote in favour of two parts, but on the other parts it would be more appropriate to abstain. I would therefore like to ask whether there is a possibility of voting on the amendment separately. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's see what's the difference. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, it is clear that points 1 and 4 have little to do with others, from a technical point of view.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u65	I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Crosio, was not adopted. I therefore call on Senator Bonfrisco and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.4. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.5 tabled by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.6 tabled by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.7 tabled by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.8, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.9, tabled by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u68	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, neither the rapporteur nor the government is considering the scope of the amending proposals. I just want to repeat, so that everyone knows what they are voting for, that we absolutely do not touch workers' rights. We do not want to touch the rights of those who are waiting for an unemployment benefit; we just want the benefits to remain in our country; that is, we want the family of the worker who has acquired this right to withdraw it monthly after signature; this will mean that the family will spend this income in Italy. If we don't want that either, I don't think we're even doing the good of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u69	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.10, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u72	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to point out that I voted in favour by mistake in the previous vote instead of abstaining.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u73	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.11, tabled by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.12, tabled by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.13, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.14 tabled by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.15 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.16.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u76	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, we know - and I would like to point out to everyone - how the devilish organic point mechanism in universities has penalised those in the South, which, while being virtuous for budgetary indicators, have seen a distribution of organic points below average. Well, if rebalancing is to be between North and South of the country, the balance also passes through a recruitment plan in universities and research institutions that has a particular attention to those southern universities that have been unjustly penalized by the diabolical mechanism of organic points. That is why we shall be voting in favour of Amendment 5.16 which provides for exactly that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u77	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.16 tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.17, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.28.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u80	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to draw the House's attention to this amendment, which calls on the Government to make it compulsory to label the origin of the raw material contained in agri-food products, in particular to protect dairy products, in order to ensure maximum transparency, correct and complete information, consumer health and the protection of operators in the dairy sector. What could be easier to say yes? Find a justification to say no. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u81	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.18, tabled by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.19 tabled by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.20, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.21, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.22, tabled by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.23, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall therefore proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12 1, presented by Senator De
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u84	Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I apologise to you for the way in which resolutions were put to the vote just now, for those who vote according to the classic schemes, it was simple; for me it was a little more complicated. I would therefore like to point out that I would have voted in favour of Resolution No 100, in accordance with Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 - this was not said, but it was important, because it has a different nature than the DEF - while I would have abstained on Resolution No 5, on the DEF. I apologise for my confusion, Madam President, but we did not vote in the usual way at the time and it was therefore difficult to understand exactly what the resolutions were in the vote, so that my vote turned out to be different. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u87	[[Brusio]] Please ask the senators to be quiet. URAS (Mixed). Madam President, I wanted to mention in this speech - this is not only my will, but it is of many democrats, of many left-wing men, of many Sardinians - the anniversary of the death of Antonio Gramsci that falls today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u88	Senator, I would like to stress: men and women.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u89	URAS (Mixed). Today is the 79th anniversary of his death, which took place on 27 April 1937. He was a man with a graceful physicist, who, however, had been able to endure the suffering of the prison for many years to defend his own ideas and beliefs and his own thought. The tyrant had said of him that it was necessary to stop that brain from thinking. And, instead, we are faced with a miracle because Antonio Gramsci, in a really absurd condition, without means, with the pencil butts and the few notebooks that the prison authority allowed him to have, has created a huge literary production, today published and recognized worldwide as an intellectual production of the highest level and as an expression of an innovative philosophical culture. We all remember the concept of hegemony with which the powerful today afflict those who are in a condition of discomfort, who suffer discrimination, who have no tools of power, but, at the same time, understand them and can therefore oppose positively to create a society more just, more democratic and more tailored to man's needs. I think we all owe Gramsci this ability to elaborate, this widespread thought. We owe it to a Sardinian - let me tell you - who is born in a country of Marmilla, a depressed part of Sardinia, and who without means studies with effort for a bone tuberculosis that will make him suffer throughout his existence. Antonio Gramsci, born in a country in a poor part of the world, on a periphery, has become one of the most noble brains, recognized and appreciated in the whole world. We must respect everyone and try to create conditions so that the potential that is born all over the world, even in the most suffering areas, is brought to the maximum of their expression. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u90	It has been appreciated by the whole House and also by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u93	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would like to point out to the House that Messina is again without water. The supply of this city depends on an aqueduct of about 70 kilometers. In recent times a study has been carried out and 39 criticalities have been reported. As far as I can tell, the point where he gave in had not been reported among those critical issues. The problem is that all the aqueduct is damaged and that Messina, which is a provincial capital city, is continually subjected to this type of problem. I hope, as well as the technicians who are working on it at the moment, that tomorrow the water will return. However, since the time before the problem lasted weeks - it fixes the aqueduct at one point and breaks in the next, and this is the situation - I want to report the problem to the government. From the facts, restoring the water supply system of the City of Messina would cost 6 million, a figure that should be natural for a civil state to spend on such a subject. So far, in fact, as far as I am aware, in addition to the strong discomfort of the citizens, there have been no health problems, but it is unacceptable that in the 21st century, in the Western world, such a thing should happen. I appeal to the government - if anyone listens to me - to make this warning, which is not a call, a call, a ritual message. They don't listen, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Three members of the government are listening to you. Go on. Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). I still appeal to the Government to find a way, perhaps with a decree-law - in this the Government is really good, being a way that it uses so easily - to solve the problem of the city of Messina, which is not the only one in Sicily, which is constantly faced with the lack of running water necessary for the daily needs of its citizens. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u94	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-616.ana.u95	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 28 April, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.23 p.m.
