ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 21 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u6	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, I rise to bring to the attention of this House serious events in the province of Caserta and precisely in the municipality of Santa Maria Capua Vetere. It is a scandal that again involves the Democratic Party, in which serious crimes such as corruption, exchange of political-mafia votes, external competition in mob association, auction disturbance, false ideology and illicit procurement are assumed. The scandal, among other things, was discovered thanks to a telephone interception, which the Renzi Government strongly wants to limit. [[Brusio]] Who is involved in this scandal, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that I understand well you do not want to listen because it is painful to hear such news? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The PD, involved in this scandal, this time in Campania, has its own suspects, among them Stefano Graziano, regional councillor of the Campania Region, President of the Campania PD and former councilor of the Letta Government and the Renzi Government. Among the arrested there is Biagio Di Muro, former mayor supported by the PD when he ran. These are those who should be the new senators who will compose the Senate of the Republic as desired by the Renzi Government, the Minister Boschi and Senator Verdini, with his AL-A Group who voted for this unconstitutional reform (allow me the term). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is good for Italian citizens to know - and therefore to remain in the act - what is happening, and for this House not to listen as a merchant, as it always does, and to stand before its own responsibilities. Because I remember that this is yet another scandal, after Trivellopolis, which involves, for the umpteenth time, this Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on draft law No 54-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Capacchione, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u9	Senator Palma, if your speech refers to the previous topic, I must point out that Senator Catalfo is a Holding Company and I have some doubts that your speech was about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u10	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, my request is probably out of date. I would just like to know whether the deadline for tabling amendments had been set.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u11	It's scheduled for tomorrow at 13:00. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as is well known in this draft law, which we are referring to for the third time in this House, stems from the need to curb behaviour aimed at racial denigration, together, at times, with the tendentious denial of recognized historical facts. It is therefore intended to amend Article 3, paragraph 1, of Law No. 654 of 1975, with which the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination was ratified, open to signature in New York on 7 March 1966, introducing the crime of negationism, i.e. the prohibition of putting in place activities of apology, denial or minimization of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, or propaganda, superiority or racial hatred or incitement to commit crimes of discrimination on racial, ethnic, national or religious grounds. The draft law under consideration, already approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies, then comes to the third reading before this Assembly. It is therefore necessary to take account of the fact that the parliamentary process of this text has been very complex and, in some respects, complex in both branches of Parliament, demonstrating the difficulty of regulatory intervention in such a sensitive matter that it reaches constitutionally guaranteed rights, such as freedom of expression and opinion. In particular, the preparatory work has highlighted doubts and criticalities regarding what is often referred to as a crime of opinion that could limit the fields of historical research or even the free expression of a thought, both hateful and repulsive. I remind this Assembly that at first reading the Senate, with a broad convergence between majority and opposition, had reached the approval of a text that qualified as public incitement, provided for by letters a) and b) of paragraph 1 of Article 3 of Law No. 654 of 1975, responding to the need to limit the aggravated case of negationism to the conduct that involved the concrete danger of determining acts of discrimination or violent crimes, without incurring the risk of affecting the free manifestation of thought. Moreover, the Senate, amending Article 414 of the penal code, i.e. the incitement to commit crimes, had provided, in paragraph 2 of the single article of the approved text, the reduction of the maximum sentence from five to three years for the crime of incitement to commit a crime. Because of the inopportunity to punish the denial of acts of genocide with the same penalty for apology, it was considered to intervene on Article 414 of the penal code rather than on the so-called Mancino law. Well, the Chamber of Deputies has deleted the letters a) and b) of paragraph 1 of the single article and has also deleted paragraph 2, which amended article 414 of the penal code; moreover, it has added paragraph 3-a, according to which, for the definition of the imposition of the penalty for the facts of denials related to crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, account must be taken of the facts established by a judgment passed in court, pronounced by an international court, or by acts of international and supranational bodies of which Italy is a member. However, in the context of a climate of sharing between all political forces, the Commission considered it appropriate to amend the text approved by the House of Deputies, re-introduced, for one part, the text already approved by the Senate at first reading. The Commission, in fact, has reiterated the choice to classify as public the incitement referred to in letters a) and b) of paragraph 1 of Article 3 of Law No 654 of 1975, in order to be able to limit the crime of negationism to the conducts that involve the concrete danger of acts of discrimination and, therefore, in order to avoid the risk of criminalizing acts that can be an expression of free manifestation of thought. As regards the reference to facts established by a judgment handed down in a judgment handed down by an international court or by acts of international and supranational bodies of which Italy is a member, the debate in the Commission noted the strong ambiguity of this wording, not so much with regard to the applicability of the obligation to facts established in past judgments, but because of the difficulty of anchoring this applicability to the determination of facts by acts of international or supranational bodies of which Italy is a component. From this point of view too, there has been a broad convergence of the parliamentary groups present in the Commission in order to re-establish the text adopted at first reading by the Senate. As for the amendment to Article 414 of the penal code on the reduction of the sentence from five to three years, which had also been foreseen by the Senate at first reading, the Commission finally, after a complex and complex debate, decided by majority, to maintain the abolition voted by the Chamber of Deputies. I recall that the other branch of Parliament had abolished the amendment referred to in the first paragraph of Article 414 of the Criminal Code in order to avoid a systemic dystonia with the penalty provided for in paragraph 4 of Article 414 for terrorist offences. The Commission therefore proposed an amendment (amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators) which recast Article 414 in order to give consistency to the relationship between the general case of public incitement, referred to in the first paragraph of Article 414 of the Criminal Code, and that referred to in the fourth paragraph. I have returned to the Commission on this amendment, and the Government has called on the proposers to withdraw for further consideration for this House. The proposers did not accept this invitation and, with the contrary opinion of the Government, this amendment was rejected. In fact, the Government has found that the reduction of the penalty provided for there did not appear in line with the edittal forecasts of penalty for the special cases referred to in Article 414 bis (incitement to paedophilia) and referred to in Article 415- bis of the penal code, both punished, in the face of a conduct of public incitement, with the imprisonment in the maximum of five years. I hope that the House will be able to reflect on this point and finally adopt a text as widely as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u15	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the report was comprehensive and important, but it is equally correct to remind the House that the deadline for tabling amendments was set for tomorrow at 1 p.m. I wonder how we can proceed to the general debate without knowing the amendments that are being tabled. That is why, Mr President, I would ask you to suspend the examination of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u16	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak on the question of suspension for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u19	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I disagree with my colleague Mr Candiani's proposal and I think it is appropriate for this House to continue the general discussion of the incardinated measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u20	I take it as a dissenting explanation of vote. [[Laughter.]] EXPOSED Stefano (PD). I'm the cat and the fox! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, the suspensive issue is not like the proposal to reverse the agenda or to vote for separate parts: even if there is no one who is against it, we must vote for it anyway. We shall then proceed to the vote on the suspensive issue. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). Mr President, if you have to proceed to a vote, I would ask you to check the quorum in advance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Resumption of the debate on draft law No 54-B PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the suspensive question raised by Senator Candiani. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u21	Mr President, we are on the second stage in this House for this measure, because of the changes made by the other branch of Parliament, changes which the Commission has done well, which I thank for the work it has done, to remove, to a large extent, from the text, returning to a much more specific aspect and not capable of giving rise to interpretations of this rule, when it will be law, in the opposite sense to that desired by the proposers, of whom I honour to be a member. I think it is important to examine the measure, in general and in particular these days, with a reading that we hope will be final. We hope that the other branch of Parliament will accept the introduction of the specific charge for those, as the text says, who deny in whole or in part the Shoah or other crimes of genocide, as recognised by the International Criminal Court, and therefore for a very limited number of cases. Seventy-one years have passed since the epilogue of those facts, of the very few survivors of the extermination camps some are still with us and it is good to put in writing in our law that those things have happened and that, beyond a historical speculation, which is always legitimate even when demential, it is not admissible and therefore it is criminal to use the denial of the extermination of the Jews during the Second World War under the Nazi regime and other regimes that collaborated, among which unfortunately what was in our country, in order to instigate hatred. It is an extremely balanced bill, which even provided for the reduction of the penalty for the crime in general of incitement to hatred. Appropriately, the House had removed it, but the Justice Commission has inserted it again - the requirement that such incitement, in the event of this law, with the inclusion of the denial of the Shoah, should take place publicly. The specification is introduced to avoid grotesque applications of this standard. Why did I say that the examination of the bill is particularly important at this time? Because there is a historical aspect. That generation has now, to a large extent, left us, but memory must last and when it is said to be never more![2], especially on January 27, which is the day of memory that remembers those facts, we must be consequent. And it is particularly important for this examination to take place at this time, when we are undoubtedly seeing a renaissance - though never dead - anti-Judaism or anti-Semitism in Europe. Thousands of episodes of tomb profanation in Jewish cemeteries and there are disconcerting episodes. I will use as few words as possible to quote what happened on a day like yesterday, which should unite the Italians beyond the fact that, as we know well, it recalls the end of a civil war, where some Italians took sides on one side and others on the other. Well, some celebrations whose protagonists are the winners of the war of liberation, namely the members of the Resistance, those who helped them and - although quite forgotten and put aside - those 300,000 fallen countries such as the United States, Great Britain, Australia, India, France and many others, who came to fight in our country, were excluded the Jewish brigade, which fought heroically alongside the allied troops, also suffering heavy losses. That the representatives of this glorious and heroic department, who fought for the freedom of all Italians, have been excluded from the celebrations of April 25, is truly an endless shame that falls upon those who perpetrated such exclusion. It is good, therefore, that a law reiterates it in clear letters: the horror of Auschwitz and of the many other extermination camps, the horror that has occurred also in our country, in our city, that horror has been and cannot be denied, and denying it is an act of violence in itself. That is the moral judgment. The judgment that this law gives from the criminal point of view is that if this denial is then used for incitement to hatred it is also a crime. In this House - of course, it was an extremely different Senate from today's, in every respect - and then in the House's, racial laws were passed, by many rightly defined racist laws (which would be the most proper term), and it is therefore very appropriate that in these very Aules it be established that that horror is unacceptable and that that horror was and denied is unacceptable. We owe it to the historical truth, we owe it to the survivors, we owe it to the memory of the many, the millions who were killed and we owe it to the many who fought for this never to happen again, Italians and not. I believe that we are really taking an important step and I personally hope that the work done in the Commission will, if possible, be improved and confirmed in this House, through the adoption of a balanced text, and that I will ask my colleagues from the other branch of Parliament to confirm the text that will be adopted here, so that in a matter of weeks it will finally be law. I believe that all those who care about this measure must commit themselves to doing so. This is a long path, which began in the last parliamentary term. It is a bill that bears the signatures of the representatives of many Groups and I like to remember that in the last legislature the third signatory was Senator Rita Levi Montalcini, that those facts lived as a direct witness, as a Jew, was excluded from all possible activities in our country, along with many others. Even in memory of our missing colleague, I think we are taking an important step which I hope will bear good fruit and quickly. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u23	Mr President, I would like to explain briefly in what context the assessment and approval of this law is included. The first aspect that I would like to highlight is that the trouble with this bill is that it has been labeled by journalists and newspapers as a measure on "the crime of negationism." This naturally raises a problem: is there a specific crime committed by anyone who denies the Shoah? If that were the case, if this were the content of the bill, I would have a lot of difficulty voting on it because a gentleman, or a scholar, who says that it is not true that there has been the extermination of the Jews, but also of many Roma and many communists, on the part of the Nazis is an idiot, he is a gentleman who tells a clear lie and must be treated with reprobation, even with irony and ridicule, but he does not have to end up in front of a court, in my opinion. The bill on our examination, however, does not say that. It merely seeks to introduce an attack on crimes already in existence in the case of this absolute horror, which was the Shoah. It makes sense for the legislator to approve a measure like this, first of all because it means that the Italian State has a historical view of the fact that it questions all our consciences: there has been, it is true, it is so, the horror has lived and spread in our beautiful Europe, in the land of rights. Secondly, because this aggravating factor can be used to combat specific crimes. This is about incitement to commit crimes against humanity, not about supporting corbellerias. Anyone who supports corbellerie can be criticized but not brought to court, but those who are inciting to commit serious crimes can and must be brought to court. That is the first thing to say. The second point I would like to make is that we must also give a sign because the noise that comes from the corbellerie they hear is deafening. I too, like Senator Malan, was outraged when I saw that there were still groups this April 25 that wanted to keep the Jewish Brigade out of the demonstrations that remembered the Resistance. This is a testament to bestiality: it is a fact that in the Nazi concentration camps there were Jewish Italians, there were communist Italians, there were Roma and Nazism proposed the extermination of the Jews. They are therefore victims and for this reason alone they would have the right to be present in the front row in the demonstrations for April 25. But it is not only this, because some Jews, like some Catholics and some communists, risked their lives for a different future of the Republic, fighting a civil war that was not easy to fight and that cost a personal price and making a final effort, around April 25, so that the Italian cities were freed even just a day before by the Italians and not by the allies. The allies had the title to free them, but the liberation of Milan, Turin or Genoa by Italians had a symbolic value of great importance. This is the second fundamental reason to ask the Jewish Brigade to be part of the demonstrations for April 25, to welcome them as Italians, as brothers and as resistant. Of course, what is the logic of this expulsion attempt? It is a fundamentalist logic, just like the one that wants to punish ideas and not the incitement to criminals that must instead be punished. According to this logic, since today's Jews share or assume that they share Israel's policy, which is criticized by many (also by the UN, for example, that it does not recognize the annexation of the occupied territories while Israel, of course, recognizes it), then we resent the Jews. It is an absolutely inconceivable position: anyone today who thinks that hatred against a people can be organized, against a race is out of God's grace and must be strongly contested. From this point of view too, passing a law is a modest signal, but it is an important signal. Finally - I have finished, Mr President, and I thank you for the time I am given - there is a simple word that has been introduced into the Commission, with an amendment that had been deleted by the House and that I hope it will remain in the law: 'publicly'. So, as I said, it is important not to make opinions a crime, no matter how crazy, but only the incitement to criminals, which is another thing, it is essential that this is committed publicly. I explain it in a very simple way: if an individual tells me a madness, like: "I would like them to break your legs" (I don't think that this can be pursued, while if he says it publicly and someone does, then it is different. This is also a guarantee of seriousness on the part of the Senate of the Republic. Like Senator Malan, I hope that the House will not finally have to add its mark again and that this law will finally come to light. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u24	We greet students and teachers of the Liceo Linguistico e delle scienze umani "Giovanni Pascoli" in Massa, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u25	Senator Amati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u26	Mr President, in the book Sonderkommando Auschwitz, Shlomo Venezia writes: "Everything takes me back to the camp. Whatever I do, whatever I see, my spirit always comes back to the same place... You never really get out of the Crematory. The Sonderkommando was a special team, selected from among the deportees, in charge of running the ruthless and methodical Nazi extermination machine. Shlomo's wife told me that her husband had also kept with her the reserve on the horror immediately, until the re-emergence of those symbols, of those watchwords, of those ideas that had generated the monster of Nazi extermination caused, in 1992, to decide, like other survivors, that his testimony could and should be a strong antidote to every negational madness. I would also like to make a small contribution to this debate by reading a short passage from his book: After the gas had been poured, ten or twelve minutes passed and there was no more noise, more alive soul. (...) I had the task of cutting women's hair. (...) Above all, we needed braids, easy to cut and carry. (...) After the haircut and the extraction of the golden teeth, two people came to pick up the bodies to put them on the elevator that led them to the ground floor of the building, towards the crematoria ovens. (...) The bodies were pulled out and laid in front of the ovens, two by two. In front of every muffle three men were in charge of baking the corpses. The bodies were laid on some kind of stretcher, one for the head and one for the feet. Two men, on the sides of the stretcher, lifted it with the help of a long piece of wood inserted from below. The third man, in front of the oven, held the handles and baked the stretcher. He had to slide the bodies and pick it up quickly before the iron got too hot. The men of the Sonderkommando had made the habit of pouring water on the stretcher before placing the bodies there, to prevent them from sticking to the glowing iron, otherwise the work became even more difficult: the bodies had to be detached with a gallows and pieces of skin remained attached. If they were wasting their time, they would be punished. Certainly we cannot allow anyone to deny or trivialize testimonies such as Shlomo's. Five years have passed since I presented the first bill on negationism, an act that at that time carried - as my colleague Mr Malan mentioned earlier - as the third signature of Rita Levi Montalcini. I remember with regret that when, in the difficulty of understanding the symbolic value of this norm, I pointed out the objective weight of its adhesion, the last act you signed before his death, unfortunately someone commented: Sure, she's Jewish. At that time, even here, there were those who no longer recognized the senator for life, the Nobel Prize winner, and saw the Jewish woman. I have decided today to make this sad circumstance public, because perhaps it contains the truth of the delays of these years; too long to carry out a simple act, which follows, moreover, the commitments made by our country, starting with Law No 211 of 2000 for the establishment of the Day of Memory, until the obligation to which the European Union has referred since 2008, with the framework decision on the contrast to certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia through the use of the instruments of criminal law. This is a binding act, under which Member States are obliged to punish the apology, denial or gross minimization of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, as defined in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, as well as the crimes defined in Article 6 of the Statute of the Nuremberg Court. This obligation has been transposed, precisely in these terms, by the draft law we are debating. Countries such as France, Germany, Poland, Austria, Switzerland, Belgium and the Netherlands already have rules that identify negationism as a crime and we cannot say that these are countries where there is no freedom of opinion. Meanwhile, worrying neo-Nazi organizations, such as the Golden Dawn in Greece, are growing, and the extreme xenophobic right in Hungary is strengthened and - as I think we all know - in Austria. They prolify unacceptable anti-Semitic and xenophobic sites on the Internet, where they even toasted to the death of Shlomo Venezia, a direct witness of the extermination at Auschwitz. Yesterday it was April 25 and in our squares, once again, words from the heart and words of circumstance were heard, remembering who, in sacrifice, allowed the birth of democracy and the Republic. I find it serious that, even today, in those parades there are those who contest the presence of the Jewish brigade, or that this is insulted, as happened in the parade of Milan. The terrible and glorious history of those who in those years fought dictatorship in Italy and Nazism is not discussed. I hope, therefore, that today, at last, we can adopt this rule: a small step of reparation by the Italian Parliament which voted in 1938 on racist laws, an act of concrete contrast to the phenomena of racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism and a necessary adaptation, although very late, to the framework decision of the European Union, so that such events can never happen again. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Serra]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u28	Mr President, we have arrived at the third reading, including that of the House of Members, of a measure which has involved this House in an interesting debate, held on various fronts, and not only on the subject of negationism itself, but also on how to frame the issue of the punishableness of an act considered hateful, while distinguishing, at the same time, the expression of a position, a principle, a conviction and an opinion, albeit horrible and nefarious, from an action that can be considered as a crime, to be punished by criminal sanctions. What we did in this House last year was an interesting debate, precisely because it allowed us to focus on such a difference. In fact, the theme - rightly raised inside and outside the Parliamentary Assemblies - has been addressed of a method of regulatory intervention that takes the utmost account of the autonomy of historical research and therefore the possibility, for those who deal with these facts from the professional point of view, or at least as a historiographer, not to see conditioned and limited their freedom of research or expression of their historiographical opinions by a legislative provision that introduces a criminal sanction. It was a legitimate observation, just and acceptable because it signalled the risk that our action, aimed at punishing negationism as a crime configured starting from its consequences, could instead trespass in the field of freedom of opinion. In my opinion, we have solved this problem well, avoiding defining negationism as a crime in itself. We have considered that the expression of a position, albeit mistaken, anti-historic, anti-scientific and nefanda from the point of view of minimization or denial of ferocious crimes against humanity or entire populations, is not confined to the field of criminality. On the other hand, we have considered that we are taking action, in fact, on the so-called Royal Law of 1975 (later the Mancino Act), which punishes acts of racism and xenophobia, considering the negationist position as an aggravating factor only in the event of the criminal offence provided for in Article 3, i.e. a negational position which has as its consequence the incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence. Therefore, the expression of a negative position of genocide, a war crime or a crime against humanity is not punished in any way; the position is punished only where and as it produces effects such as those provided for by the so-called Mancino law. It seems to me that this is a non-decreasing solution, which, on the contrary, has allowed us to focus the issue better. We have, in fact, the need to respond to an international commitment - I am referring to the Council of Europe Framework Decision of 2008 on the fight against racism and xenophobia - which asked the Member States of the Council of Europe to intervene with the adoption of regulatory measures to punish the apology, denial or gross minimization of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes as defined in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the crimes referred to in Article 6 of the Statute of the International Military Court, adopted by the London Agreement of 8 August 1945 on Nazi-fascist crimes. The text we have adopted has returned from the House of Deputies with some amendments. The first major change eliminates the intervention we had made on the so-called Royal Law through the insertion of the word "publicly" in paragraph 1, letters a) and b) of Article 3, where we talk about incitement to discrimination, violence and racial hatred. The reasoning of the Chamber of Deputies has been aimed at finding a balance between the crime of incitement provided for by the so-called Mancino law and the more general article 414 of the penal code, which provides for the crime of incitement to criminals. We had inserted the term "publicly" as an important element of that context that I tried to describe before. I am referring to the need for the negationist act that we are going to sanction to produce concrete results, i.e. crimes and actual acts in terms of discrimination, hatred and violence. And, therefore, we have identified in the public dimension a guarantee that this will happen. The House felt that this word should be deleted. I hope - we are still in the process of tabling amendments - that the Senate will find the right solution to respect that principle. We must find, once and for all, the way to punish those acts of hatred, violence and discrimination committed against social groups which are particularly stigmatised by society, without trespassing in freedom of expression and guaranteeing that freedom to all, even to those who have to express positions that are absolutely unsatisfying, which appear to us to be despicable and heinous. We must accept the fact that the principle of freedom of opinion also allows those positions to be expressed, until they are intended to produce concrete effects. We must find this way and the term "publicly" helps us in that direction, because it helps us to define the two rays of action well. We cannot risk people being punished simply for the expression of their free opinion in our country, but we must not risk the opposite either, that is to say that speeches that incite hatred, violence or discrimination and are able to produce phenomena of this kind remain unanswered and are understood in their neutral character. The Council of Europe's framework decision, which I mentioned earlier, which even speaks - we have not ventured so far - of sanctioning the minimization of crimes of genocide, war crimes or crimes against humanity, is in line with and in line with Community law and the European Court of Human Rights itself, whose objective is to guarantee the rights of every individual, including the right to the free expression of his own opinions: not all expressions of thought can be considered free opinions and the right boundary between freedom of opinion and the production of social harm must be established, starting also from the simple expression of one's own opinions and words. It's a very difficult task. I believe that the balance found in this House last year was acceptable. I hope that the text that will come out in the next few days in this House will go in the right direction, that is, in the direction of providing, not only with respect to this specific bill, but in general with respect to the public debate in our country, an important contribution. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to deal at second reading with the draft law No 54-C, which, due to the sensitivity of its object and the historical sensibilities it protects, has been characterized by a thoughtful and careful process, as well as by an overall review, during the examination, of the approach to dealing with the phenomenon of negationism. In fact, compared to the first text of the Justice Commission, which introduced in Article 414 of the Criminal Code an autonomous crime of negationism, the new wording, approved at first reading by the Senate on 11 February 2015, had intended to address the critical issues that emerged during the debate on the risk of introducing a mere crime of opinion and, on the other hand, the need to elaborate a text that could meet the needs of international and European sources in the matter of the contrast of negationism with those of the protection of freedom of expression of thought, which is guaranteed by Article 21 of our Constitution. However, as is more and more often the case, in this case too, it has happened that a bill approved by the majority in the Senate has been modified by the same majority in the other branch of Parliament; and moreover, it has been substantially amended, given the elimination of the amendment of Article 414 of the Criminal Code and the amendments to Article 3 of Law No 654, 13 October 1975, on the fight and repression of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. This is probably a litmus test of what we have been saying for a long time about the overall holding of this majority and the quality of its legislative activity. Yet, the choice of the Senate to qualify as public the incitement, provided for by letters a) and b) of paragraph 1 of Article 3 of Law No. 654 of 1975, responded to the need to limit the aggravated case of denialism to the conducts that involved the concrete danger of determining acts of discrimination or violent crimes, without incurring the risk of affecting the free manifestation of thought. Because of the concerns raised by these changes, which emerged during the examination, the members of the Senate Justice Commission and, above all, the rapporteur agreed that the text dismissed at first reading was more correct, which led to the transposition of the amending proposals, including those of the Conservatives and Reformists Group, which almost completely restore the contents of the text dealt with in the Senate. It is clear, therefore, that we will not reach the final adoption of this bill today. Our country should also take a clear position on negationism, just as the other European states have done. The phenomenon of negationism has manifested itself with scope and to varying degrees depending on the European countries and, at present, is expressly punished in Germany, France, Austria, Belgium, Spain, Portugal and Switzerland. Therefore, as in many other situations that have occurred in the course of this Government, it would be appropriate to decide definitively whether to act by entrusting to a rule the discipline of the matter, and in this case to do so as soon as possible, in a compact and decisive manner; or if you do not want to address the problem from another, eminently cultural perspective. As Timothy Garton Ash, essayist and professor at Oxford University wrote: The denial of the Holocaust must be fought in schools, universities, our media, not in police stations and in court. Denialism is a shame and it is a horror to be always countered, making all possible efforts to live and to transmit the memory of the Shoah; it is so much more so today, in the face of the increasingly fearsome and sometimes bloody interweaving among the old and never-suffered germs of anti-Semitism and unprecedented phenomena of global hatred, beginning with radical Islamism. It is emblematic the foolish reaction of a fringe of antagonism yesterday, April 25, in Milan, during the passage of the Jewish brigade. From this point of view, it seems mortifying for the free and democratic consciences that, in order to affirm a truth of absolute evidence, that is, the gruesome, hateful and unique character of the Shoah, it is necessary to resort to a rule of law. Moreover, legislatively establishing a historical state truth risks offering an alibi to the inability that we all have as a social body, constituted by the school, the educational system, the family and civil society, to counter negationism on the only appropriate ground: the terrain of education, information, cultural dissemination. Education, correct information and study of history should, therefore, constitute antibodies to counter that wicked choice of a part of humanity to deny the most heinous crime that the human mind has conceived: the mass destruction of six million Jews. Therefore, having become aware of these two different and possible approaches (legal and educational) in a difficult individual and collective mediation of cultural and political experiences and sensibilities, if the most effective for our country appears to be the one in which the punitive and sanctioning aspect prevails rather than educational, the Group of Conservatives and Reformists will vote in favour of an instrument that is nevertheless the bearer of a historical memory that must always be protected, as an expression of an indispensable civil religion that teaches us so much, so much exhorts us, so much requires us responsibly to remember. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u31	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u32	Mr President, I should like to begin by pointing out a major problem with this text. More than once we have seen differences of opinion between the Senate and the House. But never as on this occasion has there been a firm antithesis between the outcome of the elaboration done to the Senate and that made to the Chamber. As you can see, in fact, the text proposed by the Commission does nothing but take up the original text voted by this House, eliminating almost completely the changes made by the House of Deputies. I think that this is an important step, because in one way it states the difficulty of providing for a rule which is still difficult, but it certainly highlights a major problem of a political nature. At this point, whether or not to foresee this form of crime or aggravate the crime - as you should point out - is becoming a political problem. I wonder if you really want to, because until proven contrary to the House and the Senate there should be the same majority, or at least it should be composed of the same parties. Therefore, it is evident that this rule is probably not so necessary. At the beginning, when two years ago we were talking about it in this House, it seemed as if it was absolutely unanimous, that there was no problem; then, if you remember, there was a broad debate that, in fact, has put all of us in front of issues not least. One account is, in fact, to delimit the crime; another is to provide for a crime consisting of negation of a crime. The problem of negationism - already from the name itself it is clear that the suffixes "ismi" always indicate ideologies - is that we are faced with the fact that denying a historical fact means perhaps calling into question an opinion on that same historical fact. Historical research has never ended and also passes through denials. In this regard, I can recall one of the great phenomena of historical strabism. The text speaks of the Shoah, of the Holocaust, but there have also been other great war crimes: we remember in particular the foibes. We must think about how difficult it is to rebuild history, because doing so means rebuilding ourselves: we are made of history and our future depends on our history. So it is true that, in some ways, denying is a lie, but who says that the lie must necessarily become a crime? Speaking of the great mistakes in which history, or the examination of history, or the historiography or rather the politics applied to history, I recall the words of President Napolitano himself on the Day of remembrance of 2007, which are the following: " (...) assuming the responsibility of having denied or tended to ignore the truth for ideological prejudices and political blindness, which he pronounced referring to the drama of the Julian-dalmatian people, which was a tragedy removed for diplomatic calculations and international conveniences." And that was the theme of the foibe, denied for a political issue. Now we are talking about a hypothesis that, among other things, fits into a law that is already misunderstanding in itself, which has created not a few doubts of constitutionality. In fact, it is true that the Mancino law is a particular law, because I would like to see how difficult it can be to interpret the norm even for a magistrate or for the same person who commits the crime: what does it mean to promote ideas based on discrimination? Already the incitement to violence or to commit violence is more understandable, but what does "propagandare" mean? It is a word that clearly recalls another historical period. And, not for nothing, we always think that the Mancino law should be revised, because the boundaries that separate it (we also see the aggression of negationism) from those that were the crimes of opinion are labile. We thought that the crimes of opinion should no longer exist and, instead, we still find them, because it is not easy to define the boundaries of the regulatory scope of this prediction. Perhaps it is not small to consider how much ideas have changed in the passage between the House and the Senate: the term "publicly" is another very important detail, because it is important that in the Mancino law, when it comes to the crime of propaganda or the incitement to racial hatred, it must have a harmful scope to become a crime, it must be a conduct of itself dangerous. Therefore the word "publicly" is that engraving necessary for the norm to consider the danger of conduct. If I alone, in front of the mirror, make discriminatory claims, I'd like to know who I can harm. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] From this point of view, then, we will continue to insist on that rule. Perhaps the debate is not over and the time is ripe to reason whether it is really necessary to pass through a regulatory forecast what should be nothing more than a cultural intervention. We can't by a standard teach history, explain history, and teach kids what happened. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Albertini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u33	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u34	Mr President, I am a little surprised because this measure was still in the Commission until 4.30 p.m. and I know that the amendments must be tabled tomorrow by 1 p.m. Therefore, I have some difficulty in intervening on a measure which I do not know about the amendments that will be tabled tomorrow by 1 p.m. To an approximation due to these reasons and also to my personal impediment, I would like to publicly emphasise in this House that one of the most extravagant things I have ever seen in twenty and more years of life in Parliament is precisely this measure that others - certainly not myself - will approve. We spoke from the beginning of negationism. Of course, this provision has nothing to do with negationism, not even remotely. We heard historians in the Commission split up: basically 80% denied the need for a law that dealt with the problem of negationism in general; a minority instead said - and I also agreed - that, in the face of tragedies of history such as the Holocaust and genocides programmed like those of the last century, a law that specifically hits that - I hope unrepeatable - black page of the history of humanity could also be made. But we started with that reasoning and we have arrived today at an attack - it is not a crime, but an attack - of the Mancino law: on the basis of Article 3 of Law No 654 of 1975 we expect up to three years of imprisonment - I was not present in the Commission, but I believe that now they have been brought to five, if an amendment has been rejected, but I will see it when I submit my amendments - to those who, in any way, spread ideas based on superiority or racial or ethnic hatred. I believe that there is the term "propaganda" in the text, which means spreading and supporting. What things are we talking about? Article 6 of the Convention speaks of crimes of genocide; Article 7 of crimes against humanity and Article 8 of war crimes. In seven pages there are about 120 cases that indicate what the crime of genocide, the crime against humanity and the war crime are. What has been done? The House has attached these cases to any pronunciation of any international body that establishes that any event occurred falls within those categories. Then, on the other hand, it was said to limit it only to the judgments of the international courts and, if I am not mistaken, the international courts have also disappeared in the text received in this House. I am now reading you some of the cases for which one could be denounced and also have the effect provided for by the law. For example, war crime is violating personal dignity, especially through humiliating and degrading treatment, and destroying or confiscating the opponent's assets. The war crime is the destruction or appropriation of goods not justified by military needs and carried out on a large scale illegally or arbitrarily; it is forcing a prisoner of war or other protected person to serve in the Armed Forces of an enemy power; it is deportation, transfer or illegal detention; it is a capture of hostages. And that's how it goes for four pages. All these cases are, on the basis of this law, an addition to the Mancino law - I think it has passed to the Commission - which provides for up to five years in prison for those who make propaganda. What is the predestined victim today, in 2016, of such a law? Israel, and it is obvious. In the current scenario, there are people who hate the State of Israel, want to destroy it and denounce it as a racist state, because it travels in the sign of religious superiority and does not accept certain situations that, on the other hand, others would like to impose on it and immediately denounce it in international bodies when it defends itself militarily. For example, I can think of Gaza or other activities. Therefore, even self-defense and so many acts - with hostile propaganda always nail Israel that defends itself - immediately, through this law, would become something criminally prosecutable for those who defend the need, the right and the duty to defend themselves. If colleagues are pleased to read the text, I would like to know what the Senate and the House are doing. Two years ago a propaganda was made to deliberate in the Commission, in the deliberating session, a law on negationism within twenty-four hours. Some groups, however, say that a little more thought is needed. And I remember there was one of the many anniversaries, and the laws are about anniversaries and not about content. Then we went on a different iter and discussed for hours in the Senate, where we made a text that the House turned like a sock. Now a text has come back in which you can even read that any international body is enough. It was enough an international body presided over by Libya, condemning Israel or another country, that we had to take that decision as cast gold and even criminally sanction those who publicly contested it. The House has turned that decision like a sock, while now we, in our turn, have turned its decision upside down, taking away everything that had been added compared to what we had taken away. Doesn't that sound tragically humorous to you? A few days ago I told my colleagues that I challenge anyone, when he comes home at night, to answer the question of a son, a wife, a father-in-law, a brother about what the last law we did says. Besides, now I don't know what the title will be tomorrow. I do not think there is any more talk of negationism, but of amendment to Article 3 of Law No 654 of 13 October 1975. The title already asks what this measure does: it amends Article 3 of Law No 654 of 13 October 1975. And what does that law say? You have to go and get Law 654, as amended, to see what it refers to. When we understand what it refers to, we continue to read the title, which says: "in the matter of the fight and repression of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, as defined in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court." Excuse me, what does denial have to do with it? What does the Holocaust have to do with it? And what does genocides have to do with it? Do you know how many such cases are currently before international courts around the world? Tens of thousands are the open proceedings, because every single episode constitutes a war crime. We have said that, for all war crimes, there is an attack on propaganda, for example. Think of the Balkan wars: were the Bosnians, the Croatians or the Serbs right? Think of the individual episodes - terrible - of that civil war, which was built, unfortunately, on religious, ethnic, racial data: this is so, because ethnicity in the Balkan wars had one of its most tragic demonstrations in Kosovo and Sarajevo. Who has the truth in his hand compared to what has happened in those terrible fringes? Can you spread something that limits the responsibility of one of the parties in the fight against the other, compared to thousands of cases, because someone who doesn't like what you're saying publicly denounces you? It is said to be quiet, so much then the magistrate acquits; meanwhile the denunciation takes place, then maybe the trial begins but, in the end, it goes to check among the thousands of cases and, at the end of the day, what has been said does not fall within the particular twisted of what we are discussing. I'm an alibi, colleagues. I spoke with the many historians who came to the Senate, who told me they resigned because they no longer know what to say: they were called, they said theirs and gave their reasons. In the end, both the House and the Senate, having realized that they have written from the beginning things that are neither in heaven nor on earth, have drastically reduced; then, of the original intuition there is nothing left, but only this thing that someone has to explain to me legally, morally and politically what it means. I reserve the right to see what can be done with the amendments, at least in order to correct some of the most obvious forcings of this bill, perhaps limiting it only to genocide, which is already something, but certainly not to the tens of thousands of cases of which it is concerned and through which one goes to strike a fundamental principle such as research, study and also the support of thesis that can be in contrast with those of some international body. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u35	We greet teachers and students of the Istituto Superiore (Istituto Superiore), Guglielmo Gasparrini, Melfi, in the province of Potenza, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u36	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that I have difficulty in expressing sensible and strong arguments about this measure, because it seems to me that we are witnessing a game of the parties promoted by the same majority, which forces us to examine at second reading - so this is the third time that the Chambers face the same measure - a text which by the very will of the majority, as if it were bicephalous or schizophrenic, has been reviewed between the House and the Senate. This is because it is a text that intervenes on a problem whose contours are not particularly perimeterd. In fact, as has been said, and several colleagues who preceded me pointed it out, while on the one hand there is a sort of moral imperative to avoid saying falsehood, it is equally true that transferring this moral imperative into the penal code, making it a crime, would mean, for example for those who are in here (including myself), a lot of problems. In fact, if we were to censor from a criminal point of view the "dir mentacio" in front of a real fact, I would really like to see who never said the false, both knowingly and unknowingly. However, in this case we intervene because there is perhaps a need to let the outside know that the perfect bicameralism harms the legislative procedure because if a measure makes the shuttle so frequently, it is obviously the method that is wrong. I wonder if the method is not wrong, the maneuver, that is, the majority, because the text in our examination is constantly revised and modified by the majority. I therefore call on my colleagues in the PD, but also in the NCD, to make peace with their counterparts in the House in order to understand the text on which we must work. Having said that, I am speaking a little more specifically. As Senator Giovanardi rightly said, in fact in the end the mountain gave birth to a mouse because it intervenes simply by producing an assault on a hypothesis of crime already foreseen by another law. Now, we have to go into the substance of the crimes of opinion and, in particular, we have to ask ourselves what is incitement to delinquere because this is the real problem. When I instigate but above all, let us ask ourselves, who can be instigated by someone who is saying stupidities, obvious falsehoods? Probably who can be the object of incitement is an easily manipulatable subject, easily conditioning and in the age in which the scene dominates the Renzian storytelling perhaps there is need to intervene because by now history is distinct from the historiography from who knows it; but at a time when everything is mixed, everything is mixed, you have to be careful, precisely, to the narrative, to the storytelling, almost having to learn to distinguish a television series from reality. This, perhaps, is the scenario on which we must intervene. I wonder what would have happened if, rather than dedicating all these words, as we have done even now, to this problem, half of those expenses had been devoted to the introduction of the crime of negationism in the past, to transform into law other words that everyone has allowed to be sensible. I am referring to the statements of the anti-Mafia prosecutor Roberti, according to which everyone, in words, in the political sphere, recognizes what must be done, except then very few those who really fight in these classrooms to introduce rules that effectively penalise the criminal association, corruption, tax evasion. These are, for example, three ugly beasts to be fought on and on which this Parliament is doing very little. If we spent half the time we spent examining this bill to produce legislative acts that the magistrates themselves have been waiting for immemorial time, we would have done Italy a favor and a favor for culture and critical intelligence. By recovering resources, we would have prevented people from being thrown into the shadow cone of ignorance; for it is only the dimension of ignorance in which they can knowingly fish those who want to preach hatred, inciting to commit crimes. A smart, informed person doesn't do that shit. [[Recalls of the President]] Excuse me, but it was passion. These are nonsenses, absurdities, those for which you can spend an absolutely destitute argument of historical and scientific justification to incite someone to do what never and never has to be committed. And a state that is truly civil and democratic invests in culture, because culture prevents crime, and not so much in repression because it is only ignorance that grants it. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u38	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u39	I shall refer the proceedings of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u42	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to point out something which I think is noteworthy and which concerns the case of the president of the voluntary association "Publish assistance volunteers" (PAVS) in Urzulei, a small town in Sardinia on the Supramonte. The president of that association, Giorgina Secci, went on a hunger strike for 16 consecutive days before anyone was interested in her issue. Giorgina Secci requires the establishment of a medical guard point for its Municipality, because Urzulei, a village of 1,300 souls, stands above the mountains of Sardinia, in the center of Sardinia, in a condition of additional isolation to what all the municipalities of Sardinia suffer to be municipalities of an island. A country in which the 1,300 souls do not have a doctor, do not have a medical guard, where there are many other services that are provided in many other realities. Giorgina Secci goes on a hunger strike to ask for attention and it seemed right to point out this affair as emblematic of the isolation in which our inner areas feel, often victims of acute social and economic difficulties and crises. Urzulei is a village of ancient history, inhabited already in the Nuragic era, inserted in a beautiful mountain landscape, but far away. We have a duty to every man and woman who chooses to live in our small countries of the interior: to thank them for their concrete and daily struggle against the depopulation of the land of Sardinia. And I am also thinking of other lands, Mr President, such as those of your regions, the mountain ones, which suffer and are victims of the isolation and often neglect of public institutions; those which are not within the standard cost criteria. Those who deserve - for the very fact that they are saved a culture, a way of life and a way of producing - a different attention from the regional institutions, the institutions of the State and the Government. I would therefore like to point out this fact, which is part of a chain of situations of hardship and discrimination, which also exist in our country and which must be considered by the Government, the public authorities and Parliament. In essence, Mr President, I believe that we must take into account the great effort that has been made to make these communities survive, to maintain a history, a tradition and a culture that deserve to be saved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u45	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are quite perplexed about the way asylum seekers are managed throughout Italy and even more so this morning after the events in Tradate. Mr President, I have been able to take note of a paradoxical situation: there is a private structure, made available to the Red Cross, which has been hosting, for more than nine months now, an increasing number of asylum seekers, which has exceeded 100 units. The situation this morning led to the intervention of the carabinieri, with the same asylum seekers who staged a strong protest, until they came to claim to be led by the prefect, who accepted their request for a hearing. Given that, if we are in a country in which anyone staged a demonstration acquires the right to be received by a higher institution, to claim who knows what, I don't know where we will end up; the reality of the facts however wants that the more than 100 asylum seekers, of whom it is already known that 70-80 percent will not be recognized as such, is now a guest for several months, at the expense of the betrayed community, who pays taxes. In one year, these foreign citizens will cost more than one million euros: the cost is estimated at around one million or one and a half million euros. As we have already said, we will then discover that 70 or 80 per cent of them have been hosted in the hotel, with the status of foreign asylum seeker, but specifically without any right of protection or refuge, or simply as an unemployed clandestine. The situation cannot be handled this way. We continue to ask the Government to build fast structures to define the legal status: those who have the right to remain, because they are refugees, must be granted their right within a few days. Those who do not have the right must be returned to the country of origin, because they cannot create situations of tension in our communities, moreover with diseducational aspects, since these people are around all day, provided with the best mobile phones, headphones and how much more diseducational there can be, towards those who instead work and struggle to pay taxes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The municipal administration, for its part, continues to support this senseless reception system and, I would also add, Mr President, in a paradoxical way, bringing these illegal alien asylum seekers around for public demonstrations, using them as claque, to give support and clamour to the initiatives of the administration. We are not there: we are the country that is reversing the relationship between citizens and guests. Guests, if they are entitled, are accommodated, otherwise they are sent home and citizens are respected for the taxes and the effort they make to be citizens to the full. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u46	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-614.ana.u47	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 27 April, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.05 a.m.
