ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 23 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u4	Colleagues, I would like to express my personal sentiments, also on behalf of the Assembly, to Ennio Morricone. [[The Assembly stands. General applause]] Finally, the Oscar Award was awarded to the master Ennio Morricone, extraordinary composer, pride of the whole Italy, who with his music has accompanied the history of us Italians, since childhood.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u7	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would like to inform the House that the Supreme Court of Cassation has acquitted Senator Salvatore Margiotta by irrevocable judgment, without referral. [[Applause from the PD groups, FI-PdL XVII, AL-A]] , AP (NCD-UDC) and Senator Candiani), who had been convicted, with a decision that today we can say unfair. I would also like to inform the House that Senator Margiotta is senator of the Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u10	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on the order of business, renewing to the President the request already made in the Commission for justice, so that the Government may be asked for the memory presented to the Constitutional Court last Wednesday, which concerns very topical issues, namely the issue of adoptions and stepchild adoption. Since the government has spoken in that memory and has given precise indications, I believe that the representatives of the nation, the senators, have the right to know what the Government's opinion presented to the Constitutional Court is and this is also important for the continuation of our work. In the Committee on Justice I understood that Mr Orlando, present, had committed himself to handing over this memory; moreover, the procedure was already concluded last Wednesday and I believe it to be a public act. Therefore, I again ask the President of the Senate to request this act from the Government and to make it available to the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u11	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders approved the new timetable for work until 17 March. Today's sitting will be devoted to the examination of the documents defined by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Starting tomorrow the following draft laws will be discussed: street murder, delegation of reform of the honorary judiciary, framework law on international missions. During the afternoon session on Thursday 3 March, the question time will take place with the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. Next week, in addition to the possible follow-up of the unfinished draft laws, the draft laws will be discussed, respectively, of the day of remembrance of the victims of immigration and victims of the mafias. In relation to the Government's request for information on the situation in Libya, the availability of the President of the Council or the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be acquired. The schedule of the week from 15 to 17 March also includes an examination of the draft law on the posting of the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region, on the promotion for long service of officers and petty officers on leave, as well as - where concluded by the competent Commissions - the draft law on the third sector and the establishment of the system of environmental agencies. At his afternoon session on Wednesday 16 March, the President of the Council will make communications to the Senate with a view to the European Council of the following days. During the afternoon session on Thursday 17 March, the question time will take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u12	The Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - in accordance with Article 53 of the Regulation - the following additions to the programme of the Senate's work for the months of January, February and March 2016: - Drawing of law n. 859-1357-1357-1357-1378-1484-1553-D - Introduction of the crime of road murder and of the crime of road personal injuries and of the crime of road injuries, as well as provisions for the coordination of legislative decree 30 April 1992, n. 285, and legislative decree 28 August 2000, n. 274 (Approved by the Senate, modified by the Chamber of Deputies, again modified by the Senate and again modified by the Chamber of Deputies and again by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1738 - Delegation of law n. 1738 - Delegation to the Government for the organic reform of the honorary judiciary and other provisions on the judges of peace and other civil presence (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - no. 951 - Drawing number of law no. - Drawing of law no. - Dest of law no. 95 - Dest of law no. 95 - Det of law no. 95 - Delegation of law no. No 1738 - Delegation of law No 1738 - Delegation of law No 1738 - Delegation of law No 1738 - Delegation of the Government - Delegation of S of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government concerning the Government concerning the Government concerning the Government concerning the Government for the Government for the Government for the Government for the Government for the government's for the government and other provisions concerning the government's for the organic of the government's for the organic of the government's concerning the organic for the organic for the organic for the reform for the reform for the reform for the administrative of the administrative of law no. and other civil and other civil and other civil and other civil and other provisions of the civil and other civil and other provisions concerning the peace of the peace of the peace of the civil and civil and civil and civil and other provisions on the peace of the peace of the peace of the civil and civil and civil and civil and civil and civil of the peace of the peace (last of the peace (last of the civil and civil and civil and civil and civil and civil and civil of the law (last of the
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u13	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted by majority - in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the following calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 17 March 2016: [[Tuesday 1 March pom. h. 16.30 - Documents defined by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities]] [[Wednesday 2 March ant. h. 9,30-13 - Drawing of law n. 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-D - Criminal rules on road murder (Approved by the Senate, modified by the Chamber of Deputies, again amended by the Senate and again amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawings of law n. 1738 and related - Delegation of honorary judicial reform (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Following bill n. 1917 - Framework law on international missions (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 3 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 3 March pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea]] Amendments to draft law No 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-D (criminal rules on road murder) and No 1738 and related (Delega reforma magistrica honoraria) will have to be tabled by 8 p.m. on Tuesday 1 March. [[Tuesday, March 8 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Any unfinished drafts of law - Drawings of law n. 1878 and connected - Day memory victims immigration (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawings of law n. 1894 and related - Day memory victims mafia Wednesday 9 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 10 " ant. h. 9,30-14 Thursday, March 10 pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law No 1878 and related (Memory Day Victims Immigration) and No 1894 and related (Memory Day Victims Mafia) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 3 March. [[Tuesday, March 15 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Any unfinished drafts of law - Drawings of law n. 951 and connected - Common detachment of Sappada from the Veneto region - Drawing of law n. 1581 - Promotion for long service of officers and petty officers on absolute leave - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 17 and 18 March 2016 (Wednesday 16, pm.) - Drawing of law n. 1870 - Third sector (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) (Where concluded by the Commission) Drawing of law n. 1458 - Establishment of national system Environmental Agencies (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 16 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30 Thursday 17 " ant. h. 9,30-14 Thursday 17 " pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] Amendments to draft law No 951 and related (Sappada detachment from the Veneto region) and No 1581 (Promotion for long service of officers and non-officials on absolute leave) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 10 March. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 1870 (Third Sector) and No 1458 (National System of Environmental Agencies) will be set in relation to the work of the Commissions. Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 17 and 18 March 2016 (3 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, of which: PD 34' FI-PdL XVII 17' M5S 16' AP (NCD-UDC) 15' Mixed 14' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 12' AL-A 12' GAL (GS, PpI, FV, M, MBI, Id) 11' LN-Aut 10' COR 10' Dissentienti 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I believe that the whole House would agree with me in the reasoning we tried to make at the Conference of the Leaders. Mr President, at a time when there is ever more specific and worrying news on Libya, as well as on a possible Italian guide for an intervention in that country, I do not think it is acceptable that this House does not have information from the President of the Council or the Minister for Foreign Affairs and therefore does not have the opportunity to learn news, and also to be able to do so quickly. It seems absurd for me to say that, since only Parliament should decide on possible interventions, on missions, because Parliament's prerogatives on these issues are absolutely clear and precise. That is why we are concerned. We all know that we are in this international situation, including with regard to terrorism (I am referring to the danger of ISIS) for wrong choices, which are not only about Iraq and Afghanistan, but also Libya. Therefore, we believe that it is urgent for Parliament to be able to deal with this debate and to have all the elements and determinations. It is not acceptable to learn the news only from the press and newspapers. That is why I would ask you to include the information of the President of the Renzi Council on Thursday morning. We know that Minister Gentiloni is in New York, so even more so, President Renzi can come here. I also believe that the President-in-Office of the Council must provide the information and listen to the debate and the suggestions of this House. Mr President, I would like to remind you that we have raised several times the question of the draft laws of oppositions, which made a rapid appearance some time ago, as our Rules of Procedure provide, but were immediately removed from the House and are now in the Commission. I think it is time to bring them back to the House, during the week from 8 to 10 March. I am referring in particular to the identification of the Forces of Order, also inserting in the same week or in the next one (on this we have no problems), also the question of the income of citizenship and two motions: the first, on the Railways of the State, because it is absurd that we continue not to discuss a strategic issue for our Country, and the second, No 505 at the first signature of Senator Bellot, relative to all banking events and more specifically the issue of the omission of supervision by the Governor of the Bank of Italy. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u19	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, on 21 January last, the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement presented an act of inspection union addressed to the Ministry of the Interior asking to know the reasons for the transfer of prefect Fernando Guida from Enna to Isernia and its non-replacement. The Prefect Guida played a role in the investigations of the Kore Foundation and in the case relating to the Romanian Faculty of Medicine Dunarea and the Proserpina Fund. The MIUR has already issued three warnings and several notices declaring the illegality of the faculty itself; moreover, for Minister Stefania Giannini this faculty is out of law. Five people, including former Senator Crisafulli, were registered by the prosecutor in the register of suspects for office abuse, invasion of public building and false for suppression. I regret - and I say this here in this House - that some of the regional and national Members have even come to the inauguration of the faculty declared illegitimate and outlawed by Minister Giannini. It is news a few days ago that the Interior Minister Angelino Alfano was investigated for office abuse. Following the transfer, the city of Enna remained strangely deprived of the prefect for almost sixty days since on February 10, 2016, the Council of Ministers indicated the person destined to perform the prefectial functions that actually settled only on February 22 last. Now, it is particularly serious that the Minister of the Interior is in the condition of a person being investigated, all the more so in a case such as that of Enna in which the investigation activity appears to be based on acts and documents, testimonies and interceptions. Minister Alfano stated, after the announcement of the presentation of the motion of no confidence, that this case was overcome and denied by the facts. The fact is, instead, that the Minister has left the city of Enna without prefect for more than 60 days, removing in a particularly strange way the prefect Guida. In addition, from the press sources we also know of interceptions involving Ugo Malagnino, who is head of the secretariat of Deputy Minister Bubbico at the Ministry of the Interior, in which Crisafulli says that this must be resolved before the Minister leaves for the holiday. For investigators, in this phone call Crisafulli refers precisely to the transfer of the prefect Guida. In other statements, those of the former Ennese prosecutor Calogero Ferrotti of 30 December 2015, a few days before retiring, it is said that there have been contacts between Crisafulli and the Roman environments in order to have the prefect Guida transferred with great urgency. Now, we believe that this is a very serious matter and we therefore call for the motion of no confidence to be included in Mr Alfano's timetable. [[Brusio]] I would ask colleagues to give me a chance to speak. In addition to this, we ask that on the morning of Friday 11, since Minister Gentiloni is outside Italy, the Assembly may meet for the information of Minister Gentiloni on the issue of Libya. At the Conference of Leaders, PD Zanda's leader said that Thursday 10 or Friday 11 could not guarantee the presence of senators. I believe that this is an issue that is absolutely felt by all the senators and so I am sure that the Senators colleagues of the Democratic Party would also agree to include a statement on Thursday or Friday morning when the House does not normally meet. As for the draft laws of the oppositions, I join with Senator De Petris' request to include, in the week from 8 to 10 March, the bill on the identification of the Forces of Order. I am still reminding this House, and you, Mr Grasso, that there has been no discussion of the bill of opposition in these three years. I would like to reiterate my request for the inclusion of the bill on citizenship income, which has been in the Commission for thirteen months. I think this is absolutely shameful. In addition, I call for the inclusion in the calendar of motions Nos 1-00421 on ecobonus and 1-00525 on euribor. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u22	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, at the Conference of the Leaders, we stressed the urgent need for government reporting on Libya. We read in the newspapers of the presence of British, French and US agents in the Libyan territory and we know that the allies should reserve to Italy the leading role of possible intervention, after the request by the Libyan Government, where this should obtain the confidence of the Parliament of Tobruk, or even after the green light (which, in some ways, has already happened) of the United Nations Security Council. We know nothing about these things and read in the newspapers that what is written should take place in the near future. I think it is absolutely important for Parliament to be informed of what is about to happen or of the decisions that the Government intends to take. We are also aware of the extreme sensitivity of the problem in question. Moreover, when the President-in-Office of the Council comes to the House on 16 March with a view to the European Council which will take place in the next two days, not knowing the agenda yet and not knowing whether there will also be the possibility of discussing Libya's problem there, Prime Minister Renzi should also address this issue here in the Senate. So we do not know anything about the substance, nor about the procedures that should preside over a possible decision. Given the delicacy of the problem and the sense of responsibility that always belongs to us when the interests of our country are at stake, we believe it is useful and fundamental, at this point, that the Government should inform more precisely about the problem of Libya. We know the international commitments of Minister Gentiloni and we are aware of his impossibility to be present in the coming days. Nevertheless, Mr President, I would urge you to make provision for a statement by the Minister on this matter on the first afternoon of Thursday 10 March, as I understand that the Minister will be back in the morning of that day. It seems to me that President De Petris has already spoken on this issue, which concerns everyone. I repeat that, where there is no certainty and confidence in the fact that the Government will take a position on this issue in the Council of Europe debate, it is mandatory that this time Parliament should consider this issue with the information provided by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u25	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, I would like to address the request for a small change to the timetable of proceedings adopted today by a majority of the Conference of the Leaders, with reference to the timetable for the motion of no confidence against Mr Alfano. I would point out that, as Minister Alfano himself said, I believe that the matter died before it was born, because when he had declared the facts they were acclaimed, that is, the Kore university commission had already been carried out by the vicar prefect who carried out the duties of the transferred prefect. Further and qualifying elements of merit have been added to the considerations of Minister Alfano on the occasion of the statements of the prefect Guida, who publicly stated that that transfer was agreed and shared either for the need to approach his home, or for the famous fact - I address to the professionals and certainly also to us legislators - that the prefecture of Enna is being abolished in the logic of reordering the costs of the government garrisons on the territory. Mr President, on this point, I would like to make the following request. The state of the proceedings is governed by Constitutional Law No. 1 of 16 January 1989, as you teach me, Mr President, these events are examined by the Court of Ministers, which has ninety days of time to assess whether or not the investigation is justified, to file or, if necessary, to forward its assessments to the Public Prosecutor for the possible request for referral to court or for the request for authorization to proceed. It has already been a month, Mr President, because the acts were transmitted on 1 February, so there are only two more months for the Court of Ministers to decide on this matter (we are sure that it will be dismissed). I say this also for an economy of parliamentary work and to avoid debates that, if necessary, will certainly be done (no one wants to escape from this), but possibly in due course and with a more mature event in case any responsibilities should be taken into account, which will certainly not be acclaimed, because the case has been deflated by itself. I come to the request, Mr President. I would ask that the timing of the motion of no confidence be considered not earlier than two months from today, in such a way as to take it into consideration when the Court of Ministers has duly completed its duties and has expressed its opinion as to whether it should be dismissed. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u26	We greet students, students, teachers and companions of the Hotel Institute Severo Savioli in Riccione, in the province of Rimini, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u29	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we too wanted to call for integration rather than a change. We all read the agencies yesterday and today the newspapers in our national newspapers, in which it is said that the Americans have decided to intervene in Libya. Italy is in spite of being recruited, as it has been entrusted with the leadership of the plurinational contingent of intervention in that area. The question that we ask ourselves and that the Italian citizen asks himself is whether we entered the war without even knowing it and without even Noticing. Since the declaration of war should belong to the Chambers, these should at least know what kind of intervention our military will go to do in those areas, right or wrong that it is. Everyone will have different opinions on this matter and perhaps the League can also agree on a military intervention of national security, because in front of us there is a state in turmoil, with a presence of terrorists that must worry all of us. We must ask ourselves, however, who decides for the Italians when it is necessary to mobilize their defence and their armies. Does the Italian Parliament or the President of the United States of America decide? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The President of Forza Italia asked for the presence of Mr Gentiloni, Minister for Foreign Affairs. But, given the complexity of the matter and the importance of it, we believe that it is even President Renzi who should come and report to the House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u32	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my Group's position on motions of mistrust is well known. We are always equal to ourselves, regardless of whether it is a person belonging to the majority or to the opposition; certainly it does not affect our decision that there is a role of government. I believe that if and when the outcome of the determinations of the Court of Ministers produces information useful to form a more appropriate conviction, the problem will be addressed. If anything, Mr President, I take this opportunity to represent you and the House, speaking of the Minister of the Interior and also referring to Mr Gentiloni, the need and the opportunity, which, through the Group, together with my colleagues, I will formalise in the way of rite, to present to the House the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Interior. Yesterday - indeed, to be more precise, forward - Minister Alfano was in Bari in relation to the serious, very serious emergency that is being determined because of the risks associated with migratory flows. Mr President, I do not open here a debate on the principles and values of solidarity and hospitality, which have always found Puglia with open arms; however, I would not like that region, which has the largest coastal perimeter in Italy, to be alone facing a particularly serious emergency, especially by approaching the period of greatest commitment on the tourist side. I believe that, in order to talk about issues that concern the real economy of the country and the profiles of security and legality of the territories, perhaps it would be more appropriate to focus our attention on hearings of this kind, which would also benefit our legislative action to protect the territories and our national community. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u33	I have not quite understood the proposal to amend the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u34	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). I would ask for the opportunity, possibly also in concert, of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Interior in relation to the risk, about which today all the newspapers, especially those of the South, are talking, determined by the pressure exerted on the Macedonian border and the possibility that tens of thousands of refugees who escape from wars, poverty and dictatorships, presumably also land on the territory of Puglia. ( [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u35	Given that information on the situation in Libya is already provided in the calendar, given that we are waiting to acquire the availability of the President of the Council and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and that various solutions have been proposed (Thursday, Friday, President of the Council or Minister for Foreign Affairs Gentiloni), bearing in mind that, however, we are waiting for a reply on this subject and that, as soon as received, we will arrange to schedule the information, I put to the vote the proposal to modify the schedule of the work of the Assembly aimed at including, at a certain date, the hearing of the Government on the topic of Libya. It's not approved. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. However, we are waiting for the President-in-Office of the Council or Mr Gentiloni to be available. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's work aimed at calendarizing the bill concerning the ID for the Forces of Order and the citizenship income, presented both by Senator De Petris, and by Senator Catalfo. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the debate on other motions. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to include the debate on the motion of no confidence against Mr Alfano. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u38	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, it has been decided not to include in the calendar the discussion of the motion of distrust against Minister Alfano. Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) In my opinion, Mr President, my proposal was different. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand that, but you say to schedule it not before you do. Already there is the proposal not to schedule it. Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Sorry, ma'am, that's not the same thing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand that, but it's a further specification. Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) My proposal was clear. I invite you to put it to the vote, then see you. My proposal is different, and I believe - I hope, Mr President - that I have given ample reason for it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course, but the proposal not to schedule it contains in itself the proposal to schedule it in two months' time. Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) No, Mr President, because it may be requested to be scheduled between one week and every week. In this case, however, the Assembly decides to examine the timetable when the Tribunal of Ministers has completed its task. It made sense. [[Comments from LN-Aut Groups and Senator Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u39	It is decided independently of the outcome of the Court of Ministers; we cannot schedule the debate on the basis of the outcome of the Court of Ministers: that is the point, Senator Schifani. I'm sorry, but as you said, the outcome of the ruling of the Court of Ministers...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u40	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) At a time when the Court of Ministers will give its opinion, we will consider the possible timetable; it is a suspensive one. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It means we're going to examine her. Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) I ask for a vote on this, Mr President, because otherwise we will be voting on this request every week. I think my motion was rational enough. If you do not want to put it to the vote, you will take responsibility for it. [[Comments from Senators Crimes and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u41	We will vote on it every time it is requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u42	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) I disagree, but I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u43	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to include the hearing of the Ministers for the Interior and Foreign Affairs on the refugee emergency in Puglia. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u44	I inform the House that a delegation of officials from the House of Lords in the Senate is attending our work for a period of study and administrative cooperation. We greet them and wish them good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u45	The next item is the debate on document IV-c, No 2, which contains: Application of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution in civil proceedings against Mr Piergiorgio Stifoni, senator at the time of the facts, civil proceedings pending before the Court of Treviso. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided to propose to the Assembly that it considers that the fact, for which the civil proceedings against former Senator Piergiorgio Stiffoni are being held at the Court of Treviso, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and that, therefore, in this case, the constitutional guarantee of insindicability referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies. Since the rapporteur, Senator Giarrusso, is not present, I would ask the working rapporteur, Senator Stefano, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am replacing the rapporteur, Mr Giarrusso, who had not been warned and is now absent, in order to point out in advance that, as stated by former Senator Stiffoni in his written statement filed on 21 May 2015, Professor Faion filed a formal complaint with the tribunal in Padua, following which the criminal proceedings No 8026/11 were initiated, which ended with a request to dismiss the public prosecutor of 23 June 2011 and, as a result of an act of opposition, with a decree to dismiss the Judge for preliminary investigations of 18 June 2013. In the aforementioned decree of filing, adopted by the judge for preliminary investigations, the operation of Article 68 of the Constitution was considered. Given that in criminal proceedings No 8026/11 of the judge for preliminary investigations, the judicial authority has automatically found the opinion expressed by the former Senator Stifoni towards Professor Faion, using the faculty provided for in paragraph 3 of article 3 of law n. 140 of 2003 and therefore filing the investigations, the only procedure subject to the union of the Junta and today of the Chamber remains the civil one n. 3804 of 2013, inherent in the same facts, in relation to which the aforementioned former senator asks the pronunciation of the Senate pursuant to paragraph 7 of article 3 of law n. 140 of 2003. The jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court requires that the statements made extra-moenia by a Member of Parliament may be covered by the prerogative of unindicability, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, but only on condition that a functional link with the exercise of parliamentary tasks, based on two presuppositions, can be found. The first condition is the substantial correspondence of meaning between opinions expressed outside and opinions expressed in the parliamentary classrooms, while the second requirement is based on the so-called temporal link between parliamentary activity and external activity. The act of inspection union 4-00077, signed by Senator Stiffoni, of 29 May 2008 contains a very heated criticism of the principal Faion (on the occasion of the episodes of drug dealing) regarding which we read: "The questioner asks to know: (...) in the light of the serious events and deficiencies in supervision by the school manager, highlighted in the premise, if he does not think it necessary to interest the competent bodies in order to relieve the principal of the classical high school Canova of Treviso. The correspondence of content between the statements extra moenia, object of the civil procedure in question, and the aforementioned act of inspection union is therefore evident, also in the light of the circumstance that, as stated in the jurisprudence of the Consulta is in no way necessary a punctual and pedissequa correspondence of the texts, being sufficient a substantial correspondence, i.e. of meaning, between the expressions used extra moenia and the opinions expressed intra moenia. Compared to the requirement of the so-called temporal bond, it is noted that the aforementioned act of inspection union is approximately two months later than the first press article of 21 March 2008 and in any case also later than the article appeared on...The Treviso Forum of 25 May 2008. On the occasion of the examination by the Junta of the document relating to Senator Gentile, it was noted by the rapporteur that the Constitutional Court considered that the posteriority of the typical parliamentary act with respect to the extra-moenia declaration does not in itself preclude the configurability of the inindacability in terms of the requirement of the time link, provided that this act is foreseeable on the basis of the specific situation. For these and other reasons - Mr President, given that it is very difficult to speak with this buzz in the Chamber - the Junta decided, on a proposal from the rapporteur, Senator Giarrusso, to propose to the Assembly that the fact that the civil proceedings against former Senator Piergiorgio Stiffoni are being held at the Treviso Court should be held to concern opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and that, therefore, the constitutional guarantee of insindicability provided for in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies in this case.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u47	As you are not included in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to point out that the Council's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities is to be voted on by a simultaneous ballot to consider that the fact that the civil proceedings against former Senator Piergiorgio Stiffoni are being held at the Treviso Court concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and that, therefore, the constitutional guarantee of insincability as referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies in this case. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u48	The next item is the debate on document IV, No 10, which contains: Request for authorization for the use of conversations and telephone communications by Mr Marcello Dell'Utri, Senator at the time of the facts, in the context of criminal proceedings pending against him (No 17067/12 RGNR). The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided by a majority to propose to the House the authorization to use the telephone interceptions of Mr Dell'Utri, Senator at the time of the events. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Lo Moro, if she wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u49	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report in its entirety, and I will confine myself to the oral summary of what the point is, even for those who did not have time to read it. Mr President, you have already said that it was the judge for the preliminary investigation of the court in Naples who requested authorisation and has already given sufficient information on what the Junta has decided. So I will start from the premises, in fact and in law, and then say what the Junta's proposal is. First of all, the clarification on which the judicial authority is proceeding, in this case is not merely a formality, but an element of substance, because these are telephone interceptions authorized against third parties not parliamentary by other judge for preliminary investigations and in particular from that at the court of Florence. The procedure in which these telephone interceptions have been collected and acquired is therefore another procedure, to the truth always borne by Marcello Dell'Utri, as well as other defendants, for another crime, which is the competition in corruption for an act contrary to office duties. In this case we are faced with another request, because these interceptions were transmitted to the Public Prosecutor of Naples, who asked for its use for another criminal procedure, for completely different facts, in relation to which another crime is contested compared to corruption and, in particular, the competition in flawed. So, it's two different authorities, there's a partial subjective identity, because in both cases Marcello Dell'Utri is accused, but the facts are completely different. The judge for preliminary investigations at the court of Naples considered the conversations intercepted relevant and their interception random, considering the same subject to subsequent authorization of the Chambers, as provided by Article 6 of Law n.140 of 2003. The request for authorisation - as information for colleagues - concerns 49 telephone conversations out of 52 involving the former Senator Dell'Utri, recorded during a period ranging from 23 January to 21 May 2012. It is true that there are 49 telephone conversations, but this is a number that has to be compared to the total number, which is 12,878 interceptions. I will skip the whole part concerning the description that we have made to clarify that these are different facts and judicial authorities that proceed in a differentiated way, one at the court of Florence and the other - what concerns us - at the court of Naples. Turning therefore to the methodological plan, it must first be pointed out that the Constitutional Court, in judgment n. 390 of 2007, followed an approach whereby the Chamber to which a request for authorisation is addressed must first verify what is the direction of the act of investigation, i.e. whether the same is addressed functionally to third parties recipients of the interceptions or, vice versa, whether it is aimed at capturing circumstantial elements at the expense of the parliamentarians, through subjection to the control of third party telephone users, with consequent inusability of the interceptions against the parliamentarians in question. In this case, for the truth, the decision is not very difficult to make, because, with regard to the fact that there is a diversity, what we are looking at is a case of school, since there is a total diversity also in the facts for which we proceed. Therefore, the idea that we can proceed with these facts and that the interception was decided indirectly, to grab something in connection with this trial, is an imaginative idea, because the facts for which it was proceeding at the court of Florence were completely different. The Occasionality of the interceptions is therefore quite evident: the judge for preliminary investigations at the court of Florence, in the context of the proceeding n. 17337 of 2011, charged by Marcello Dell'Utri and Marino Massimo De Caro, proceeded for competition in corruption for an act contrary to the duties of office. It is useless for me to dwell on the content of the facts at issue, because even the accusation attests to their diversity. The proceedings at the court in Florence, however, were not brought before the Senate by the competent judicial authority, so it is not to be dealt with. The cognitive scope of the Junta is necessarily limited, on a substantive but also procedural level, to requests for use in title transmitted by a different judge and for a different purpose. Apart from this consideration also on the occasionality that emerges objectively from the same documents, and that among other things has not been contested even by the interested party who has not submitted any memory although having had the opportunity to do so, the other element that must be investigated is that on necessity, or rather on the non implausibility of interception. In relation to this, too, it seems to me that there are no doubts of any kind. Of course, for all this we must recall the content of the court's order and in this respect I can point out that it makes a great deal of reference to the need for these interceptions. In particular, the judicial authority writes that the results of the intercepts mentioned above make it indispensable to use conversations randomly intercepted, because from their reading emerges how Dell'Utri showed a particular interest in the contents of the Neapolitan library of which his friend De Caro was director. And again, on page 25 of the order it is clarified, with respect to the additional interceptions, that they themselves appear relevant in order to reconstruct the relationship between Dell'Utri and De Caro; they constitute evidence of the close relationships, even of a trusted nature, interwoven between the two and are illuminating of the role played by Dell'Utri in the matter relating to the appointment of De Caro. In conclusion, in the present case the need for interception is as evident as the occasionality. For these reasons I have proposed to the Junta, which voted by a majority on these conclusions which I propose to the House, that authorization be granted for the use of the interceptions of telephone conversations by Mr Dell'Utri, Senator at the time of the events, with reference to the document under discussion. I have already said - and I would just repeat this - that we have no different elements from the person concerned and I add, because it is an evocative argument and it is more than motivated in the written report, that in this case we must not make any reference to any legitimacy or illegality, because we are not the Court of Cassation, but the Senate and the elements that we must evaluate are those of occasionality and necessity. Why is that? What would happen if in the other trial, the one at the court of Florence, the illegality of the interceptions were sanctioned, of course by judicial means? Clearly, if the interceptions are unlawful they are not usable, but this does not interfere with today's judgment that is related to the other procedure. In the state we have not been informed of any of this, so we merely look at the aspects of our competence. For these reasons, I do not think that we can avoid confirming the vote that took place in the Junta.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u50	As you are not included in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u53	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say that I would like to represent the fact that Mr Giarrusso is at home sick and not absent for other reasons, as someone else has said, and that we were not aware that we had to deal with the issues that were introduced in today's Conference of Leaders, I am going to address the issue related to the document now under consideration. We're talking about the former Utri Senator. Perhaps the story might seem marginal, because we are talking about subtraction of ancient books from a library. However, the question is important and should not be underestimated because it shows what the measure of the person is, what relationship he has with the public administration, what relation he has with the thing and with the public goods. In the request of the judge for preliminary investigations it is specified that the De Caro, the director of the library, after having assumed the functions of director of the library, thanks also to the political protections of which he had enjoyed for some time (...) - here is another mechanism that unfortunately still exists - he acquired the total control of the library (...) and allowed abusive and uncontrolled access. This gives a little 'the picture in which the former senator of Utri moved and in which he moves, unfortunately still now, much of Italian politics, even that present in this Chamber and in the other. Dr Dell'Utri would have allowed the activity of dispossession of the library, would have favored the rise of De Caro to the top of the state administration, also in view of the possibility of ministerial tasks and their compatibility with functions of director of a famous library precisely for those collections that were envied all over the world and that it was allowed to subtract and bring elsewhere. I believe that this should not be underestimated and I wanted to speak in the explanation of vote to highlight the relationship that has always been between politics, appointments, assignments, exchanges and everything that follows. We know that far more serious accusations have been made against former Senator Dell'Utri: the organic nature of organised crime and the mafia. Well, this may seem irrelevant, but instead it gives the idea of how the mafia culture is sometimes inherent in some people and how difficult it is to fail; a culture that provides that the public thing is not such but available to those who have access to it. That is why we shall be voting in favour of authorising the use of interceptions. We are talking about Article 68 of the Constitution, which perhaps should be addressed once and for all, in order to eliminate the privilege enjoyed by the political class of having to receive prior authorization from the House of Membership which ends up blocking judicial activity in the event of interception, seizure or arrest; and all this so that the caste can continue to protect itself with respect to the accusations that are made to it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u56	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, it seems to me that the habit of having ethical primacies in this House is being taken a little too seriously. I would like to remind you, regardless of the story of Dell'Utri on which I do not speak, that the story of the Girolamini library was raised in the Chamber of Deputies by me when I was in the Committee on Culture. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Crimes]] So there is no need to say that there is also a common policy in this House. Please, let's not talk about things you don't know. Furthermore, there are also inaccuracies in the things Mr Crimes has just said, so let us not use them to make us propaganda. The Girolamini Library is a squalid story about this country. It was a matter of naming the director of the library who did not even have the qualifications to carry out this task; we are talking about the library of Giambattista Vico and there are also Monace orders involved. So it's a little more complicated than what might just be about a nomination. Since, as is known, there are more things in heaven and earth than in the philosophy of Senator Crimes, I would ask for at least a little sobriety. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Baptist, D'Anna and Zuffada.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u59	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u60	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to point out that the Council's proposal to grant authorization to use the telephone interceptions of Mr Dell'Utri, Senator at the time of the facts, as set out in document IV, No 10, sent by the judge for preliminary investigations at the Naples Court, in the context of criminal proceedings pending against him, is a simultaneous vote. (The vote was followed). CASTALDI (M5S). Verdini, you have to vote green! The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u61	The next item is the debate on document IV, No 13, which contains: Report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the application for authorisation to execute the implementing order of the precautionary measure of house arrests issued by the judge for preliminary investigations against Senator Domenico De Siano in the context of criminal proceedings pending against him (No. 56502/2010 RGNR - No. 33575/2015 RG GIP) for the offences referred to in articles: 1) 416, first, second and fifth paragraphs, of the Criminal Code (association for criminals); 2) 110, 81, paragraph 319, 319- bis and 321 of the Criminal Code (competition in corruption for an act contrary to the duties of office); 3) 81, paragraph, 110 and 353 of the Criminal Code (competition in troubled freedom of the charms); 4) 110, 81, paragraph 319, 319- bis and 321 of the Criminal Code (competition in corruption for an act contrary to the duties of office); 5) 81, paragraph, 110 and 353 of the Penal Code (competition in troubled freedom of the charms); 6) 110, 319, 319- bis and 321 of the Penal Code (competition in corruption for an act contrary to office duties) The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly the refusal to authorise the execution of the implementing order of the precautionary measure of house arrests against Senator Domenico De Siano, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stefano, whether he intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u62	Mr President, I believe that it is useful for all of us to represent in the methodological sense the reasoning I have proposed to the Junta and on which the Junta has acted by a majority, because it is a measure of protective custody and therefore restrictive of the personal freedom of one of our colleagues. I then begin by stating, on a purely methodological level, that in the investigation of the request for house arrests in question (as with any other request for house arrests) all the assessments must be traced back and confined to the perimeter of the powers of the Junta, and today of the Assembly, which, by a principle of separation of powers, cannot be considered in a judgment of review of the same scope compared to that provided for in Article 309 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which, on the other hand, belongs to the exclusive competence of the so-called court of freedom, nor can it be connoted in concrete ways to make it rise to an improper fourth degree of judgment for the precautionary measures additional to the aforementioned second degree and the subsequent procedural phase before the Cassation. I therefore believe that it is essential to adhere strictly to this methodological approach without restricting ourselves to fields reserved for the exclusive competence of the judicial authority, given that this approach would allow the Junta to assume an improper judicial role, likely to overlap unduly with that of the review court as well as with that of the Cassation pursuant to Article 111, paragraph seventh, of the Constitution. This would, moreover, conflict with the functional profile, i.e. with the protection of the parliamentary function which constitutes the basis for the whole system of inviolability provided for in the Constitution, which represent derogations from the principle of equality and as such are only allowed in this derogation in relation to the strict limits of the protection of the parliamentary function, the only one subject to the evaluation of the Senate through the union on the so-called fumus persecutionis. In this regard, the Constitutional Court, in judgment n. 188 of 2010, in previewing that the union of the Junta extends not only to the requirement so to speak negative of the absence of fumus persecutionis, but also to that positive of the necessity of the act, has specified however that the union must not consist in a review of the presuppositions of necessity already examined by the judicial authority as in a power of reply, through the motivation of the act, the mere non implausibility of the same from the point of view of the absolute necessity. In the light of this approach, I would point out, in relation to the profiles referred to in the above-mentioned judgment of the Advisory Council n. 188 of 2010 (which I will recall several times), that the motivation of the act explicit the precautionary requirements and supports, with specific regard to the cases referred to in Article 274 (c) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, that Senator De Siano could, on the basis of a prognostic judgment, repeat the offences contested with particular reference (underlined in the explanatory statement) to the crime of association with criminals. I believe that, as we have done, the verification of non-implausibility referred to in the above-mentioned judgment of the Constitutional Court should be carried out on this basis. I understand that surely no elements have emerged to configure a fumus of first degree, understood as the subjective intention persecutory of the magistrate. Similarly, I do not think that there have been any indications that the fumus at second instance, i.e. the particular modalities of the action promoted by the magistrates capable of leaking fumus from objective elements. The elements worthy of in-depth study concern above all the so-called fumus of third degree, which pertains to the manifest unfoundedness of the activity of the judicial authority. In this regard, it must still be reiterated that the Junta cannot replace the judge for preliminary investigations in the assessment of the existence or not of the precautionary requirements referred to in Article 274 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, thus not being able to extend its union to possible profiles of unfoundedness of the order. The only exception to this approach is the one relating to the aspects of unfoundedness characterized by a manifest and macroscopic semblance, perceptible ictu oculi and undoubtedly and therefore suitable to characterize an objective fumus persecutionis. In the present case, the annulment by the court of the review of the head relating to the association with criminals can provide elements of reflection in this regard, given that the reasons for the general-preventive requirements contained in the order of the judge of preliminary investigations refer in particular to that offence. For the benefit of all Members of the Assembly, I would point out that on page 89 of the order (page 92 of the document) we read: This prognosis about the future behaviour of the suspects to whom the crime referred to in Chapter A is contested is based first of all on the inclusion of the same in an associative structure that is still operational. The crime referred to in Chapter A), i.e. the association to criminals, thus becomes a pivot for the very indication of the magistrate proceeding, on which rests the danger of recurrence. To confirm this approach followed by the judge of preliminary investigations, on page 91 of the order (page 94 of the document) reads: As for the members of the criminal association, Orbene can only pre-dispose the precautionary instrument of house arrest, capable of preserving the special preventive needs (...)......................................................................................................... From this reconstruction, therefore, it is evident that the measure of house arrest has been proportionate by the magistrate proceeding in relation to the head of charge relating to the association with criminals. In fact, the incipit of the above sentence would not have made sense: • as far as the members of the association with criminals are concerned. I also point out that Chapter A) relating to the criminal association was brought down by the review court. Consequently, always by virtue of an approach of separation of powers, it certainly does not fall within the tasks of the Junta and of the Assembly that of controlling such judicial decision, being obliged to take note of it, also in view of the fact that the annulment of the head of attribution in question involves the fallout of the same, no longer effective and no longer existing and consequently no longer subject to our assessment. It is the judge (in particular the review court) who, in his own autonomy of judgment, fell the head relative to the association to criminals; but, if we must necessarily take note of such caducazione, in the same way we are obliged, pursuant to the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 188 of 2010, to verify the non implausibility with regard to the motivation of the act. Evidence also, begging colleagues to give me three more minutes... PRESIDENT. I'll give you three minutes, too, Senator Stefano. STEFANO, rapporteur. I didn't think I had time. In relation to the De Siano document, the question of the seriousness of the crimes contested (which initially included the association with criminals), is a necessary prerequisite, according to a broad parliamentary practice, for the granting of authorization to arrest a Member of Parliament, given that the application to the same of a protective detention measure is likely to change the numerical composition of the Assembly, altering its plenum. The primary aim underlying the guarentigia of inviolability must necessarily be oriented towards safeguarding the parliamentary function and confirming this approach suffices to note the fact - also stated by the Constitutional Court - of the indisputability of this prerogative on the part of the person concerned, given that the safeguarding of the parliamentary function is of a legal nature that is not available by the inquisitioned senator and is therefore subject to our exclusive assessment. In the light of this functional approach, in the past the Chambers only allowed the arrest for eleven times and exclusively for eight parliamentarians. In particular, Parliament's jurisprudence has consistently held, until the 15th legislature, that the need to protect the plenary of the Assembly could suffer a derogation, anchored to parameters of reasonableness, only in cases where the offence was of particular gravity and heinousness. And the crime that has been depowered by the partial fallout of the review court, I believe, may no longer be appropriate to justify the reduction of the plenary of the Assembly as a result of the precautionary measure. I quickly add, on the overall plant, that the other Senator De Siano's co-indicators for the same crimes against which today, following the review, Senator De Siano is found to have been investigated have not been subject to any restrictive measures. And, therefore, this joint assessment of ours, which I am putting back to this House today, leads to an equalization of a position which, in our opinion, is at the same level as other respondents. Finally, for the two alleged crimes against which Senator De Siano is investigated together with others, there are judgments of the Council of State that have wished to highlight the legitimacy of administrative award procedures. For all these reasons, my proposal to the Junta was adopted by a large majority and I will put it back to the authoritative examination of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u63	We greet students, students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education. "Mandralisca" in Cefalù, in the province of Palermo, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u64	As you are not included in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u67	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, this is not happening. The member of the 5 Star Movement represented in the immunity committee was the only one who voted differently from all the members of the other groups, rejecting the proposal presented today by President Stefano. So I try to summarize very briefly the reasons that have led us to this determination and that today will motivate our vote against. I would like to start by taking a look at what happened in this House just now, as a starting point for reflection which will then lead to some reasoning. The leader of the Democratic Party, Senator Zanda, at the beginning of this sitting, gave a statement on the final acquittal of one of our colleagues, Senator Margiotta, at the end of which the applause was taken. Of course, we can only be happy that a senator, a member of this House, has been finally acquitted. I imagine, however, that all of us can share the view that, if it is right to be so publicly happy about an acquittal of a Member of Parliament, we should also be ready - and this House should be ready - to make public and highly externalised gestures whenever it has happened or, if necessary, that Members of this House or of the other branch of Parliament are instead drawn from final sentences. Gentlemen, either we put it to the head that we must give a signal to the country that is out there and that looks at us, that politics really wants to regain trust and that parliamentarians are not a caste, or there will be none; or, at least, there will be none for those who do not follow the facts to the words. On this point, I expect that, in the future, if a Member of Parliament were unfortunately to be drawn from a sentence of condemnation, someone will stand up in this House and propose - I know - a collective whistle instead of applause. But let's get to the case we're dealing with. President Stefano's report reconstructed the process that led the majority of the members of the Junta to the proposal to refuse authorization for the personal coercive measure of house arrests against Senator De Siano. It has been said that, since the review court caused the head of the association charge to be dismissed for lack of serious clues - obviously, as we know, it is not an absolute judgment in the full sense that of the review court - the precautionary requirements did not persist in the matter of serious clues of guilt that justified the maintenance of the precautionary measure proposed by the gip, thereby failing, precisely, the justifications in relation to the crime of association to criminals. It must be remembered, however, that the charges for acts of corruption for an act contrary to the duty of office, as well as for helping to disturb the freedom of the chariots, remain. It is not that we want to wear the role of justiceists at all costs here, but at a time when we say - and it has also been said in the report - that the Senate does not want to set up a special court, a fourth-degree judge, which interferes with normal judicial activity, we must also consider that, in any case, the precautionary measure, to date, remains limited to crimes of corruption and auction disturbance. If we pretend not to see that this is the reality, not only do we continue to give the message, even to the outside world, that we applaud those who are acquitted; not only do we keep quiet when someone is convicted but, once again, the normal citizen cannot see Members of Parliament as his worthy representatives. The filter of this kind of immunity - for goodness sake - in an abstract way is reasonable: it is a protection measure introduced at the beginning to put a filter to a judicial action that could be distorted and that could really represent a fumus persecutionis, a case in which the judiciary could intervene in a way aimed at hitting a politician or a political force. If the principle is right, as are so many who regulate parliamentary activity, it has distorted over time, and even today - this is the last example - if this House were to approve the Junta's proposal, it will continue along this path. With regard to the fact, also recalled by President Stefano, that parliamentary jurisprudence, anchored to parameters of reasonableness, has in most cases acknowledged that the limiting measures of the freedom of parliamentarians apply only in the cases where the crime is of particular gravity or hellishness, it is necessary to be ready to explain out, to all the people who are in prison today or to house arrests or drawn from restrictive measures of freedom - or who will be from tomorrow onwards - because they do and we do not. Any reasoning seems to be no convincing of what was represented in the proposal of the President of the Council. This is a parliamentary jurisprudence that we would like to reject by changing its course, while, of course, remaining the sacrosanct right-duty (in this case Senator De Siano) to defend appropriately before the judicial authority. We are not talking about the innocence or guilt of someone, but about the role that the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity must play in this Parliament. Otherwise we should explain why the prosecution failed, or rather the serious evidence of guilt for the crime of association with criminals has failed. We should explain why those who are under house arrest today, or perhaps in prison, for acts of corruption or auction disturbance cannot enjoy what now seems to be an indefensible privilege, and that we hope in the next Senate - if anything the "Senatarellum" monstrum that will come out of the constitutional reform will see the light - will be abolished, all the more so because the abstractly reasonable immunity does not become an instrument of shelter of that political class, certainly not the best - I mean the Regional Councils - that will find itself entrenched behind such shields. The 5 Star Movement, therefore, will vote no to the proposal to reject the request for house arrests [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u70	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, frankly, I am very puzzled by Senator Buccarella's speech, twice my colleague, once as a senator and the other as a lawyer who is a person I have always esteemed for his specific preparation in the matters we are dealing with. It leaves me puzzled because objectively either he did not read the documents correctly or he did not listen carefully to the reasons put forward by the rapporteur Stefano when he proposed to reject the request made to subject Senator De Siano to house arrest. I listen and would also like to be heard. Mr Buccarella probably did not go into much further. The answer you can give to the question you asked is very simple, regardless of the fact that it has been explained in a comprehensive way the reason why it has been formulated, which is reflected in the simple reading of the acts. We cannot compare the fact that we are dealing with today with a case where, with the same charges, there are people in jail. No one disputes that you should be in jail under certain conditions, provided that those requirements are met which the law provides and imposes. And, therefore, talking about facts that we do not know, for which arrests have been arranged, would actually lead us to talk about things that we do not know the exact contours of. In this particular case, I must say that Mr Stefano's report has even been very narrow, because so many things could be brought to the attention of this House. The written report was, on the other hand, absolutely exhaustive. Today all those elements that had initially led the judge to request the precautionary measure are missing, and, not least, the fact that the notice of conclusion of investigations has already been lodged, which means crystallization of the evidence. And this is one of the essential elements to consider, because the evidence in the acts is now crystallized, and we live in a system in which the deprivation of the freedom of an individual must always be the extreme ratio. The proof is given by the fact that none of the co-defendants, even though they have the same charges, are subject to any restrictive measures, and it seems to me that the greatest measure is that of the obligation to sign for some of them. This explains why the rapporteur, Mr Stefano, proposed rejecting the request for a house arrest permit for Mr De Siano. Finally, I would like to refer to the content of the previous statements. We do not accept lessons of any kind, not least because we respect the decisions of the judiciary, whatever signs they may be. In this House we have always shown the utmost respect for those decisions, and recently also with measures that have been denied by the decisions of other bodies of the judiciary itself. In this sense, we have also carried out a work of study in Junta, which allows us to easily support the proposal put forward. And, therefore, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of Mr Stefano's proposal. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for the vote to be taken simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call upon the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to reject the authorization for the execution of the implementing order of the precautionary measure of house arrests against Senator Domenico De Siano, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u73	SILVESTRO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, last Sunday, citizens and professionals of Bologna and Emilia-Romagna learned from a newspaper that, following a sanction imposed by the specific Order, some doctors have been suspended from the professional exercise for having prepared protocols of teams that provide, for specific, specific and punctual situations, that operating nurses on ambulances of the Emergency Medical Service-118 can administer life-saving medicines. Those doctors have been sanctioned because they have foreseen a relevant and targeted use of nursing skills certified and acquired after years of academic study; of technical-scientific skills maintained constantly over time; of multi-annual professional experiences: all elements that have demonstrated as a whole integrated to produce results and outcomes for the assisted and the community absolutely positive. The doctors were directly sanctioned, but they were indirectly sanctioned also nurses who, with those doctors, commit themselves to cure and assist. They have all been sanctioned because together they have cultivated and translated concretely the widespread conviction that skills, knowledge and experiences of an entire multi-professional team must integrate for a common result and be, in that way, made usable by the whole community. The sanctioned doctors, as well as many other colleagues, have noted the skills and abilities of the nurses and the indirectly sanctioned nurses have consciously acknowledged that they are capable and ready to operate as well as their colleagues in Europe and around the world. The dismay of the entire occupational health community has been enormous, and not only because the protocols in question acclaim a behavioral mode certified by scientific societies in the field of emergency-health emergency, but also because their correctness and legal validity were and have been recognized by the Emilia-Romagna Region through its legal offices. Disconcerted, but also anger and frustration found expression in thousands of comments that involved the whole health world of the country and blew up social networks. The fact, moreover, is particularly serious also because an auxiliary body of the State, such as an order and professional college, has not manifested its possible observations and doubts in a logic of loyal collaboration between institutions - in this case professional order and Region - but has considered to proceed in a completely decontextualized way, with sanctioning procedures that refer to self-defined professional superiority and hypothetical diagnostic and performance shifting. The sanctions were imposed obviously ignoring European directives and state laws, regional indications and pronouncements of various prosecutors of the Republic. On the other hand, it is also necessary to say that it is commonly acknowledged that the detection of the loss or alteration of vital functions and the consequent life-saving interventions are carried out by doctors and nurses - and this happens in the world - without indicating exclusive performance for one or the other, because this is how a primary goal is achieved: not to lose human lives and maintain high effectiveness of the entire system. Precisely in this logic and objective, internationally recognized, the medical emergency system of the Emilia-Romagna Region has been structured, which wants to ensure the best possible response to and in situations where one or more people are in serious and vital difficulty, making the best use of professional resources (doctors and nurses) and non-professional (technical, rescue volunteers and simple citizens), available within a network that integrates and optimizes the first aid and hospitals. It can be considered paradoxical the weapon used by the Order of Doctors of the Province of Bologna: an improper weapon branded to impose its unilateral vision in the lively debate currently taking place in the country on professional relations between doctors, nurses and all other health professions. "An improper and exaggerated weapon" - as others have already said - highlights the inability of the Order of Doctors of Bologna to accept what is happening in all modern health organizations: collaboration, interaction, integration, recognition of equal professional dignity and respect among all without obsolete hierarchical and professional scales. Therefore, they intervene Ministry, Regions and anyone who cares about the quality of our health system. They intervene to put an end to these paradoxical situations that risk blowing up the litigation among professionals and containing health responses due to citizens. They intervene to recognise and enhance the skills of all professionals and operators. They intervene to give support and strength to that team work in which doctors, nurses and other members of the team can optimize, integrating them, their skills and abilities to the sole benefit of citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u75	I would point out that at the beginning of the sitting the Presidency spoke to Mr Morricone and the House gave a long applause.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u77	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank the House for celebrating the beautiful victory of Master Ennio Morricone, who certainly gives glory to Italy as a whole, but I take this beautiful occasion of celebration to put to the attention of the Assembly an issue which, on Saturday 13 February, led to a national demonstration of state and non-state preservers. I speak for the request contained in a note to the members of the Cultural Commission, in which it is written that the National Conferences of Presidents, Directors and Presidents of the Consultants of the Students of State and Non-State Preservers, gathered together in Rome at the headquarters of the MIUR, on 27 January 2016, express the greatest concern for the situation of the system of Italian state and non-state preservers and, more generally, for musical formation in our country. In particular, for years now, the blocking of the process of reform of the system, initiated by Law No 508 of 1999, which is accompanied by a serious lack of public resources, as well as a constant problematicity in the intercourse with the political and institutional level. The Conferences denounce the persistence of a lack of political and cultural planning, which concerns the training system, in the context of a constant de facto underestimation of the value of music in the entire cultural and social context of the country. My appeal to the Government is, therefore, that we follow the so-called AFAM shipyard, which had been launched in the summer of 2014, of which we do not yet see the results, in a government proposal for the overall reform of the field of high musical and artistic formation, thus also covering the Academy of Fine Arts, and that therefore we celebrate, in a concrete way, the beauty and excellence that Ennio Morricone represents for our community and proceed concretely to work on a project of reform of the entire sector. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bocchino, Cardinals and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u80	MICHELONI (PD). Mr President, I asked for a few seconds to inform the House that last Sunday the Swiss people voted in a popular vote of great importance for all foreigners living in Switzerland and, therefore, also for half a million Italians. On Sunday, the Swiss people were called upon to rule on an initiative of the extreme right, which proposed to introduce into the Swiss Constitution a list of crimes that would force the judges to pronounce the expulsion of those who had committed them, crimes that ranged from the most serious to the most trivial. It has been difficult months for us: we have contributed to the election campaign and there has been a huge civil mobilization in Switzerland. Even from here, from the Senate Chamber, without being able to talk about it first because it would have been an interference, but in a personal capacity, the senators of the foreign college, my colleague Di Biagio and myself have appealed to our double citizens. I would like to stress that the Swiss people rejected this initiative by a very large majority, contrary to the polls and what we expected - 58.9% of the Swiss said no - because we have often glued the xenophobic label to it (regularly it is called to vote on such issues, because the system of direct democracy exists in Switzerland). The Swiss people, however, have almost always given great answers. In this particular part-session we were concerned, because what is happening in Europe is gasoline for right-wing forces in Switzerland. It was difficult to argue, in the debates we supported, that this initiative was unacceptable, when we were told that Sweden announced 80,000 expulsions, that double citizenship is being called into question in France and that there are miles of barbed wire in Macedonia. At the moment Switzerland has problems, because there are two million foreigners in a population of eight million and there are about 300,000 illegals working in black. It is not true that everything is perfect in that country, no, despite these difficulties, that people said no. And I wanted to remember that here and thank the Swiss people for their vote, hoping that it will be useful for Europe to reflect on how it is now acting towards the migratory flows it is required to manage. As I had the opportunity to say on August 30 last year in remembering the 56 Italians who died in Mattmark fifty years ago, I am proud to be Italian, I am proud of these governments that save lives in the Mediterranean and today I am also proud to be a Swiss citizen, and that is why I wanted to talk about it in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bocchino and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u81	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-583.ana.u82	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, March 2, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.21 a.m.
