ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.42 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u8	[[The President stands up and with you the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, last night a terrorist attack at Istanbul International Airport caused the death of 36 people and the injury of 147 others. Unfortunately, once again, this House is obliged to commemorate the victims of terrorism which, with increasing intensity and violence, continues to deeply affect our continent, together with its values of civil coexistence and peace. I want to express on behalf of the whole House the closeness and solidarity to the families of the victims and to the Turkish people for this yet another vile and barbaric attack. However, feelings of consternation must be combined with the greatest determination to require the intensification of every effort to combat all forms of violent extremism. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u9	Colleagues and colleagues, I suspend the sitting until 10 a.m. to allow the Budget Committee to give its opinion on the draft law No 2389. (The sitting was suspended at 9.44 a.m. and resumed at 10.03.) The session is resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, pending the completion of the writing of opinions by the Offices, the sitting is suspended until 10.15 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10:03 a.m. and resumed at 10:17 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u10	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2389. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general discussion and replies of the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government took place. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares that sub-amendments 2.100/1, 2.100/2 are inadmissible only for the second part and 4.102/2, since they are not directly related to the amendments to which they relate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u13	TONINI (PD). Madam President, I would like to apologise to all my colleagues for this expectation and for the fact that our work is beginning a little late. At the same time, however, I believe that the work done by colleagues in the budget Commission deserves these words. If we had the House wait yesterday afternoon and this morning it is because a number of the rapporteurs' amendments have arrived in the Cesarini area accompanied by the appropriate sub-amendments which have imposed an additional amount of work on the Commission. I would like to make this clear that we did not interrupt yesterday's afternoon work because the Budget Commission had not done its job; the Budget Commission had to do another part of the work because new amendments and sub-amendments were received to be examined. As you know, this requires a technical inquiry by our Offices, which I would like to thank here for always submitting to really extreme rhythms, and implies a verification with the General Accounting of the State, therefore with the Treasury Department of the Ministry of Economy; there is an intense exchange of documents to carefully examine the constraint placed by Article 81 of the Constitution, which is one of the fundamental pillars of our work. I say this for two reasons. The first is to keep the exact progress of the events of these hours in the minutes. The second, for an appeal to all colleagues. Given that we are moving towards a lively phase of our activity, because before the summer break, as always, there are so many issues, if the Commissions could finish their work in a clear way, without queues that involve an extension of time, this would help us to be efficient and to produce in an optimal way the decisions that the House is called to take. I therefore call for the work to be done as neatly as possible: hand over to the Budget Commission the work once it has been completed, so that we can carry out all the procedures that we have once and no more than once, creating indisputable delays in common work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u14	The Presidency is fully aware of this. As you can see, you have also received the applause of awareness from this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u17	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I rise to express my complete solidarity with President Tonini and the members of the Budget Commission, who are unjustly blamed - my applause before was sincere and not ironic - as those responsible for positions and decisions that the Government must take and, when it does not know how to do so, turn the ball to the Budget Commission. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Bulgarelli]] Therefore, the government must come and apologize to the House, which I see here today represented only by the representatives of a former party. Let us give Caesar what is Caesar's. The Budget Committee works with the Accounting Office. If the Accounting Office does not transmit technical reports or throw the ball in the gallery because it does not know what to answer, what happened yesterday and today happens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u18	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1 of the draft law. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u19	Madam President, Amendment 1.1, and the others that will follow, are aimed at affirming our Group's position with regard to international missions but, above all, with regard to the defence model that we would like to see affirmed. We asked the Commission to defend this year to launch a survey to investigate in detail the results achieved in the international missions in which Italy is engaged but, above all, to verify and, if possible, interpret a different and sustainable defence, as we define it. The hearings in the Commission of non-governmental organisations, such as Amnesty International, have revealed very important data that could revolutionise the traditional defence model, focused on resolving conflicts - as is the case these days - through actions that are no longer military, but alternatives that can really alleviate the conditions of the populations for whom we carry out these missions. This is the ratio of amendment 1.1 and all those put forward in Article 1. I reserve the opportunity to explain the others in subsequent speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u20	Madam President, I would like to explain the two amendments tabled to paragraph 8, with which we would like to reiterate a number of points, because the measures are announced and are not pursued. The EUNAVFOR MED mission was to combat illegal smuggling of migrants, i.e. to combat illicit trafficking in human beings. We would like to continue to insist, because the fight against illegal trafficking also means cutting off ways of financing terrorism. We have seen, in fact, that all the money paid by those desperate people ends up in the coffers of parallel organizations linked to international terrorism organisations. If instead of fighting terrorism we use our means, ships, men and equipment to collect shipwrecks at sea - assistance at sea must be something else - we would end up giving only the message that it is very simple to arrive in our country; we would feed hopes; we would feed the number of people stimulated to leave; we would feed the coffers of international terrorism. And I'm asking if we really want to cut him off. With regard to international terrorism, Madam President, I would like, on behalf of the whole Group, to express our solidarity and sympathy for the latest attack and for all the victims. As we see, the biggest problem facing the international community today is precisely the fight against international terrorism. Yesterday it was about Turkey, days ago it was about Nigeria, Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and so on. In Europe it was Belgium and France. Fortunately, it has not touched our country yet, but the first objective we must pay attention to is the fight against terrorism. Let us therefore write - and then consistently pursue what we write - that these missions must serve to counter terrorism and not to simplify the traffic to our country, because this means stimulating others and increasingly enriching the coffers of international terrorism.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u21	Madam President, our Group's amendments relate to Operation EUNAVFOR MED, on which I would like to draw the House's attention now - but we will also do so when we get to the point. In the meantime, I would like to remind you that, at last Monday's sitting, the Government accepted our motion for a resolution in the debate on the European summits dominated by the Brexit affair, but also on the issues of immigration, which are not a secondary cause of the crisis of the European institution, the outcome of the British referendum and the pressure of the peoples, which are very critical of a Europe that does not know how to deal with immigration issues. Therefore, demagogically governing them can lead to a dissolution of the Union. Since we have one of Europe, let us not break it with the distressing questions that have arisen in the last few hours, even in the country that called the referendum. Maybe they won the referendum, but they broke up the UK, and it looks like someone wants to leave on their own. It may be that this Government has succeeded where even wars did not succeed and it is good that the United Kingdom has remained a reference power for world democracies. Well, the issue of immigration is conditioning and the Government itself, last Monday, accepted our resolution which proposed - the amendment is a logical consequence - to verify (with a correction of the Government that added \ as soon as the conditions allow it) the possibility of starting phase 3 of the mission EUNAVFOR MED, which will allow to enter the Libyan territorial waters, evaluating also, if this was not practicable in a reasonably short time - says the resolution that the Government has approved - the possibility of the suspension of the current phase 2. NEVFOR MED means: we must fight piracy. There is all the material in the Senate, having held several hearings in the Commission, including those responsible for the operation EUNAVFOR MED, and it has been distributed in the Commission documentation that the operation is part of the European action plan on immigration that in various points - everything is connected - requires the Member States to collect the fingerprints of all migrants - you know that there is no certainty about this - and establish a new programme for the rapid repatriation of irregular migrants. The ships of EUNAVFOR MED, which bring many illegals to Europe, lead, alongside people from war zones, also many who are technically illegals. Have you ever seen any reunions? Yesterday the Minister of the Interior reminded us that 95 people have been expelled, that they are not illegal, but are considered potential terrorists. But as far as the expulsion of illegal immigrants who are not terrorists is concerned, I think the figures are zero. As far as the relocation of refugees within Europe is concerned, the situation is below zero, because every country, even though it has given full availability, has not accepted anyone. Therefore, with amendment 1.8 (text 2) we ask for a certain date to be set, otherwise stage 3, which Libya should face by asking EUNAVFOR MED to enter the Libyan waters and I also believe on the coasts to fight the boatmen, where they leave, will never leave. Why doesn't he ever leave? It doesn't start because the Libyan government doesn't have control of the situation yet. On this too, colleagues, the Offices of the Senate - we sometimes praise them theoretically, but we also have to do so in practice - have provided us with a study in recent days entitled "The Libyan Crisis." Current situation and prospects for solutions and one on European missions. So at the Senate we have the opportunity to read by email, and on paper for traditionalists, what happens. Then, in even broader terms, what happens to us is unfortunately reminded of the massacres and terrorism, and it is no coincidence that today's sitting opened with its commemoration, President, of a fact of terrorism not yet clearly classified, but which for many recalls the confrontation with fundamentalism and terrorism. Therefore, our amendment sets a date, in July, at the end of phase 2 of this mission, because phase 3 does not take place. And, if phase 3 is not triggered to fight against the hullists, phase 2 involves that many ships circulate in the Mediterranean and, as the hullers know it, organize the departures of the illegals knowing that, after a few miles, the German, Italian or French ship will rescue them and bring them to Italy. I remember that a German ship, the other day, brought hundreds of illegals to Italy. And they're ships from all over the world. Moreover, they would not be able to take them to ports in Northern Europe or Germany, and it is obvious that we are close. And then those illegals - some of whom will be refugees, but to a large extent they are illegals - do not know how to distinguish and what the real figures are. I remember that, between Friday and Monday, 12,000 were reported in Italy. Yesterday the Director General of Frontex said that 300,000 are ready to leave Libya, and this is so true that you can count down not those who are ready to leave but those who arrive in Italy. In four days there are 12,000. More than 300,000 in a few weeks! Ergo, humanitarian aid cannot be without end and without rules if it is aimed at fighting the hullers and helping Libya to have a democratic government. We will also be discussing the latter with other amendments, because we must decide which side we are on: whether on the side of those who fight terrorism or those who maintain an ambiguous position. Therefore, we recommend the approval of our amendment, which puts an end to Operation EUNAVFOR MED, unless phase 3 is triggered. I see that our government is very uncertain about foreign policy. The defeat suffered yesterday at the UN was a success: Italy needed 140 votes to get the seat on the Security Council and did not take them. Then an Italian-Dutch compromise was reached, which was doomed to success and so was communicated to the House. I am sorry for Italy, of which I am proud and passionate supporter, but yesterday we lost that election that was considered won. The Minister, the Deputy Minister and the Undersecretary for Foreign Affairs had started: all of them at the United Nations; then the game arrived at the penalty, with a kind of balance that was not a success, from what we could interpret. Well, are we certain that Libya will be able to move on to stage 3? Since this certainty is not there, we can not for years and years continue to bring, with Italian, German and French ships, immigrants to Italy. The participants in the EUNAVFOR MED mission make the ships available, but they bring the illegals to Italy, because we are rightly here. Last week they were brought to Italy clandestine even from distant places in the Mediterranean when the coasts of Malta, Greece or other places were closer. Do you think this is how you handle the NEVFOR MED affair indefinitely? And I appeal to the majority. Do you think this reassures the peoples of Europe? Do you think this creates consensus for the government? Do you think that then Renzi will go around Europe to show security or do you think that a policy that is too surrendering risks destroying Europe? I say this because I am not happy that Europe is breaking up, and we said so yesterday in the Commission. But if he does this policy, he frightens the people and breaks up; after that we will not go better, and those who deceive themselves about it would do well not to cultivate such illusions. But a policy of security and solidarity has some deadlines, of the times and, therefore, also the operation EUNAVFOR MED cannot continue to infinity if phase 3, of true fight against the scafism in the Libyan waters, does not take place. It is said: gentlemen, we stop, and then some rescue will be the same; but today we have multiplied the presence of those ships that the boatmen use, in which they no longer even put fuel because they know that so much, after a few miles, the illegals will be taken, and therefore they earn more. What about the billions of euros that the scafisti collects where they end up? Perhaps, in part, they fuel that terrorism or fundamentalist war that even in Libya, and not only in the airports of Brussels, Istanbul or other places, manifests itself with its deflagrant and tragic situations. This measure on international missions, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is closely linked to what is happening in the world. I believe that a little attention from everyone would be necessary and our amendments aim at this. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u22	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1,500 (correct text), because it did not go to the Commission but came directly to the House. In part, in response to Mr Gasparri's statements, our amendment introduces an element of novelty in the EUNAVFOR MED mission. It has been proposed to provide the Libyan Government with a training activity of the Coast Guard and this is an important development. Certainly the mission EUNAVFOR MED - as has been said several times - tends to the objective of reaching the third stage in order to reach the Libyan coasts, but the strategy shared unanimously, in order not to make the mistakes of the past, is above all to get along with Libya or to proceed through a UN resolution, otherwise we should make invasions that have not produced great results in the past. I must also say that the EUNAVFOR MED mission, also at this stage, has achieved important objectives: several hundred boats are no longer used by hullers and their operational capacity has been greatly reduced. Of course, we need to get to a third stage. I take advantage of this, because precisely in these days the command of the mission has changed, to greet Admiral Gueglio, who among other things is my fellow countryman, who has finished the mission, and to address a dear greeting to Admiral Berutti who since yesterday has commanded the mission. The rapporteur's amendment is, therefore, on the training of the Libyan Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u23	The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u24	Madam President, I am against all the amendments to Article 1, with the exception of amendment 1,500 (correct text), on which, of course, the opinion is in favour. Among other things, Amendments 1.1 to 1.100 have the opposite view of the 5th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u25	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u26	Let us move on to Amendment 1.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Marton and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, up to the words "the paragraph 7". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 1.6 and 1.7 are therefore not included. We move on to Amendment 1.9, which is identical to Amendment 1,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Marton and other senators, identical to amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.8 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u29	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the explanation of vote follows the illustration I made earlier. Amendment 1.8 (text 2) proposes to put an end to the EUNAVFOR MED mission on 31 July. I would also like to address the Government, represented in this House by representatives of various Dicasteries, and the question is rhetorical because it cannot be answered. Do we know when phase 3 will be triggered, the one in which the Government Serraj of Libya will be able to ask us to act also in the Libyan waters to counter the activity of the scafisti? We do not know, because we are aware, colleagues, that in Libya there is still a confrontation that we hope - and on this we think like the Government - rewards the action of the Government Serraj and we can assume real control of the territory. However, between the enduring presence of fundamentalist groups that control pieces of territory, the contrast with Haftar supported by Egypt and whatever else, we do not know when the Libyan Government will be able to tell the troops of the mission EUNAVFOR MED, the ships, to enter the Libyan waters and really fight the hullists. So, we have an uncertain date. We have raised the problem several times, even in the previous conversion of decrees, we have raised it in all the discussions on European summits. I have just recalled that our resolution, adopted by the Government on Monday, states that if phase 3 of the fight against escafism in Libyan waters does not take place, the operation will be suspended. Otherwise, the current operation does not fight the boatmen, but transports the illegals. Let us not then say that those who contest this policy are populist, racist, xenophobic and who knows what. I would remind you that the very democratic United Kingdom, which is a multi-ethnic and global reality more than any other, in voting on the recent referendum, has also very much focused on immigration, thinking about how European policy fails. Renzi tells us then that he proposed the migration compact, a great program in Africa. Where is he? They didn't even talk about it yesterday, bewildered by the English result. The conclusions of the European Parliament and the European Council have not yet been understood, except that Juncker was joking at Farage or some other controversy. Frankly, it is enough to participate in any of the television programs and there is no need for institutions. We strongly call for the vote in favour of amendment 1.8 (text 2), which places a limit on this operation which is not achieving its objectives and which we have discussed. First, the rapporteur congratulated the admirals who alternated with the command of this operation. Congratulations to everyone, but - as Senator Alicata said yesterday - those ships are illegal ferries. They must not wage war, but neither can they be ferries that carry thousands, with all the tensions present on the territory. The Ministry of the Interior tells us that there are 100 per Province; what do you want them to be? Of course, if one thinks of the city of Rome and of 100 illegals arriving, they can be absorbed, even if they are 200 or 300. But if it's 100 every 48 hours for each province, it's different. By the way, the Provinces have been fakely abolished. But when it comes to clandestine partitions, they come back to life as a territorial and administrative concept. This is not good, because it is not manageable, as the Government and the majority know. We are not inhuman beings who do not want to help those people. Let's say that there is a limit to everything and that if there are ships passing through, they will help those in danger. But if you send 30, 40, 50 boats, those who have to organize the traffic know and multiply it, intensify it. You cannot tell us when the third phase will start, because it is a matter of politics, conflicts, tragedies that are also taking place in Libya and I do not reopen discussions. You can see the nemesis of history: Cameron and Sarkozy, enthusiasts of the Libyan war to which they forced Italy, today they are gassed or defeated, perhaps even for those strategic errors. In fact, perhaps Europe has begun to destroy itself by being mistaken among friends and enemies, because some who were bad friends were perhaps useful - I think precisely of Gaddafi's Libya - to govern a situation that, after five years, does not seem to have improved. In fact, British democracy waves and Libyan democracy is still a very vague hope. Our call for a deadline for this operation is realistic. And then the reasons for solidarity and acceptance will find the physiological ways to express themselves. However, the way to deal with this is a rough one, and it is on Italy, because we have not seen European solidarity. It is not a question of revising the Dublin Treaties on refugees and illegal immigrants, which carry ships, as I have already said, and I do not repeat myself. We therefore call on the House to vote in favour of amendment 1.8 (text 2), which serves to give a deadline for this operation and then to put the international community in the face of a responsibility: what is being done together? Are we the only ones to continue and then destroy Italy and Europe and not to put back together the pieces of Libya? In fact, it does not seem to me that there are major developments. It is not a trivial amendment, but it is an opportunity for the Senate to send out a signal for a policy that combines solidarity with the right realism in the management of the Mediterranean crisis. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u32	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to declare the M5S Group's vote in favour of Amendment 1.8 (text 2). In fact, we have always argued that the EUNAVFOR MED mission had no sense of existence, because it is not humanitarian. Also the third phase so invoked by Forza Italia, which I remember in the early stages voted for EUNAVFOR MED, leaves me very perplexed, because still it has not been understood how the contrast to the boats that leave will happen. I therefore consider this amendment appropriate, so as not to spend hundreds of millions of euros on a mission that does not serve - as colleagues from Forza Italia have also said - to transport illegals. It's normal, it's natural and fortunately there are our soldiers who can save so many lives. Our vote is therefore in favour, and that is all we can do. However, when we talk about the disposal of immigrants who arrive in Italy - I address Senator Gasparri, with reference to his explanation of vote - we would really want to vote no. The call is to say a few less words and to concentrate on the substance of the amendments, because immigrants must be accepted, if we are in a position to do so, and relocated by discussing them with Europe, but certainly not disposed of. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u35	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to avoid a double explanation of vote on our next amendment. We will vote in favour of amendment 1.8 (text 2), because the comments made are perhaps harsh and hard to accept, but they are all true. What we would like, including Amendment No 1,101, is for us to do exactly what we have proposed to do, namely to combat terrorism and trafficking in human beings. If we actually move on to the third stage - perhaps it will be difficult - or at any rate to a naval barrier, the illicit trafficking of human beings would calm down in a week, because no one would be willing to pay thousands of euros - as they are doing - to see themselves immediately brought back to the shores from which he started. You have to have the courage to say, if Frontex doesn't work and its director says that another 300,000 migrants are coming, that we are feeding international terrorism because those people pay about 3,000 euros to leave. It must be blocked in the bud, that is, on the Libyan coasts, this traffic and, in this way, we would do two major operations: we would save a lot of money and we would, therefore, have money to do interventions in their countries. We need development cooperation in those realities to restart them, to create better employment opportunities and living conditions. It is not necessary to inflate Europe and our country, which is already in collapse, and to feed the coffers of international terrorism. I have also noticed a fact from the way the votes took place: while all the amendments were being played by the parties between majority and opposition, on the previous amendment to create a stop sign at EUNAVFOR MED there was a larger number. This means that the sensitivity on this subject is quite widespread, even though party logics require quite tight votes. In my opinion, with the next amendment, which says that it is doing what the operation has set itself, we could give an additional pretext to the Government to say that assistance will be one thing, but now we must try to block the flow because it is a problem of national security and funds, as well as the fact that we absolutely cannot help those poor people. Those who are truly poor do not have 3,000 euros to leave. They would be the ones who should be helped in their countries.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u36	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8 (text 2), tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,500 (correct text)/1, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Alicata. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,500 (correct text), tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,101, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I invite the speakers and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u37	On the agenda, I should like to express my support for the acceptance of the rewordings that the Government may wish to make; the same applies to agendas G1.101 and G1.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u38	Madam President, on the agenda, Mr G1,100 the opinion is in favour if a rewording is accepted. The new mechanism shall be: to take every possible initiative in international bodies so that the objectives of the protection of the civilian population are explicitly included in the mandates of international missions, where relevant. On the agenda G1.101 the opinion was in favour of including in the operative part, after the words: "to provide Parliament" the words: "in the context of the planned communications given by the Government on international missions". On the agenda G1.102 the opinion is in favour if, after the words: "to provide Parliament" are inserted: "in the context of the government's provisions, communications on international missions" are included.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u39	I would like to ask the authors whether they intend to accept the proposals for reformulation that have just been put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u40	Madam President, with regard to the last part of the agenda G1,100 - I am addressing the representative of the Government - I believe that the same is very important for Italy, because it is specified that we must have the necessary legal cover in order to sanction possible violations of the principle of protection of the civilian population, as well as for the needs of actions aimed at protecting the lives of civilians. I therefore believe that this part of the commitment can easily be accepted by the Government. With regard to the first part of the scheme, we are in favour of the proposed reformulation and, therefore, I would ask the representative of the Government to accept this method.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u41	Undersecretary Rossi, would you like to answer Senator Santangelo?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u42	Madam President, the commitment remains the one proposed, also because we believe that the generic nature of the commitment also gives the possibility to cover the legal part and the sanctions for violations of the principle of protection of the same, given that it is absolutely explicit that the objectives of the bodies are to protect the civilian population.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u45	SANTANGELO (M5S). I do not fully understand the explanatory statement, but I accept the proposed reformulation, because it is still an important step.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u46	Senator Bertorotta, are you in favour of the proposed reformulation by the Undersecretary? BERTOROTTA (M5S). Yes, ma'am, I accept that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, do you also accept the proposed reformulation? LUCIDES (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since the vote is requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on the agenda G1,100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Marton and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Since the vote is requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on the agenda G1.101 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Since the vote is requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on the agenda G1.102 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, up to the words "expense" of the text. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.0.2 and 1.0.3. are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u47	Mr President, Amendment 2.3 seeks to delete paragraph 1, which provides for intervention in Afghanistan, as part of a mission that has been going on for many years and is becoming chronic. At the same time, I would also like to mention Amendment 2.5, which would like to specify that the mission in Afghanistan ends by 31 December of this year, which is why we should already equip ourselves for the return, since the same decree-law that we are voting on provides for the mission to be completed by that date. However, as happened last year, it is already planned to be extended for the coming year and, therefore, it would be preferable not to provide explicitly for the return to 31 December, unless Amendment 2.5 is adopted. Amendment 2.3 also provides for the transfer of funds, removing them from the mission in Afghanistan and addressing them to Article 8 (1). Article 8, paragraph 1, contains the only decent measure of the entire decree-law, referring to development cooperation initiatives. I would like to remind you that, during the examination of the last decree-law on the extension of international missions, an agenda was approved, presented by the Senators of the 5 Star Movement, with which the Government undertook to give greater refreshment to populations affected by war (in particular Yemen). Nevertheless, Italy continued to produce, sell and export arms to Saudi Arabia, weapons that are used to bomb Yemen. Similarly, Eurofighter aircraft continued to be supplied to Kuwait, a country also engaged in the coalition that bombs Yemen, and even training Arab pilots in Italy. It would be worthwhile if we, with our armed forces, went directly to bomb Yemen, where dozens and dozens of people died yesterday too. This is the attention that Italy is giving to the victims of wars and bombings at the moment, so Article 8 of the measure should be taken much more seriously. Absolutely useless, on the other hand, are the funds that we are devoting to yet another mission in Afghanistan and that Amendment 2.3 proposes to delete. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u48	Madam President, I would like briefly to address the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon and the TIPH 2 mission in Palestine. I remember that our men in Lebanon are still more than 1,100 and the trouble is that they complain first of all that they have a zero power of intervention, little more than to interrogate with the Lebanese forces. On more than one occasion, our forces intercepted convoys that were likely to carry weapons and engage in illegal trafficking and the only thing they could do was alert the Lebanese authorities. Since the rules of engagement are these and our men have limited operational effectiveness, we could use these forces in other operations, in a better and more effective way, as provided for in amendment 2.102. Amendment 2,103 refers to paragraph 5 of Article 2, which provides for the use of military personnel in training activities of the Palestinian security forces. We are talking about the Palestinian army and the Palestinian archipelago, where terrorist forces are grafted into the Palestinian National Authority (ANP); we are talking about a country where the government authority is not distinct, because it is driven by organisations that are military but also terrorist. Well, it seems a bit risky to us to train those components that even threaten the stability of the Middle East area. Our proposal is therefore to put a stop to the training of the Palestinian forces and to end the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon, because the effectiveness of our contingent is indeed zero.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u49	Madam President, on my agenda, Mr G2,100, I would like to focus on the references to the Red Cross included in this measure. While appreciating the attitude which is intended to be reserved for the operational continuity of the Red Cross, it cannot escape how the implementation of the foundation, as proposed by the rapporteur with amendment X1.2 (correct text), which the rapporteurs themselves have proposed, may not be a fully effective instrument. All this because of the fact that it was intended to limit, as far as the military body is concerned, the involvement to the only three hundred of which at the dedicated rate, leaving out the remaining component of the body, therefore destined to the inexorable demilitarization. Unfortunately, we know that this structure will serve as a parachute to the current one, allowing also easier management of resources. Therefore, there would be reasons for opportunity and not functionality. I repeat: opportunities and not functionality. But it is difficult to understand how this system, which involves a complex assembly of personnel, structures and other things, can ensure effective operation. I therefore call for consideration to be given to the commitment contained in my agenda, G2.100, in order to suspend this so-called demilitarization procedure, also in the light of the renewed and potential employment of the Red Cross military corps personnel, determining possible alternative solutions for the involvement of the Red Cross military corps, considering the hypothesis, in accordance with the commitments already accepted by the Government on several occasions, of framing the operation of the Red Cross military corps, in its entirety, within the framework of the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism, as reiterated on many other occasions by the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u52	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would ask Senator Di Biagio to be able to sign his agenda. I repeat from our Group to the Undersecretary Rossi, who is well aware of the matter, that we have appreciated the amendment that will be introduced in this decree and that concerns not only the women's part of the Red Cross, but a part of the whole Red Cross, establishing the foundation. I myself and my group, meeting with those who are part of that deserving structure, had guaranteed our support and hoped for an institutional solution, which came with the rapporteur's amendment. So we have not tabled similar amendments, precisely to simplify our work. However, Senator Di Biagio's agenda refers to a question that several of us in Parliament have raised several times, to which I have never understood the real response of the Government. I am referring to the demilitarization-removal of the Military Red Cross: it is true that there is military health and that there are other structures, but, frankly, the merits of the military corps of the Red Cross should be taken into account and the commitment of our armed forces in so many international missions that this decree confirms (and that is why we, although very critical of the disaster of EUNAVFOR MED, which you are managing with self-damage of the Government, are still in favour of the planting of the decree). I would like to draw the attention of Mr Rossi, also for his well-established previous experiences, to the case of the Red Cross body, in order to stop its dismantling, as the agenda G2.100 hopes. I also appeal to those who are calling for an ever more humanitarian commitment from our military missions: it was often the military Red Cross that gave a sense of solidarity to these missions, guaranteeing health care not only to our military, because once garrisons were carried out, these were widely used by the local people. Where our armed forces have intervened (in Lebanon, Afghanistan, Somalia), they have never denied their help to the local people, as it is logical that we should do. I therefore urge the Undersecretary Rossi to take charge of this, because the Government's answers have been ambiguous. Minister Pinotti himself - I say this with respect - delegated the matter to other offices. You take this matter into your own hands, as Undersecretary, and you accept the requests that this agenda once again calls for, and for this reason you have our non-occasional sharing - as Senator Di Biagio well knows - but you are active and constant. Senator Di Biagio had the time to renew this agenda and we join in signing and voting. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u53	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u54	Madam President, I am in favour of Amendment 2,100. With regard to Amendment 2.9, we propose a rewording adding, after the words "Daesh," the words: "also in order to facilitate the requests for humanitarian aid of the civilian population." The final text would therefore be as follows: The cost of EUR 236,402.196 for the extension of the participation of military personnel in the activities of the International Coalition against the terrorist threat of the Daesh is hereby authorised, including in order to facilitate requests for humanitarian aid from the civilian population. I am against all the remaining amendments to Article 2. I am in favour of the G2.100 agenda if we accept our rewording. The process of privatization of the Italian Red Cross has started, and its demilitarization is one of the fundamental pieces. Moreover, suspending this process would slow the exclusion of military personnel from mobility procedures. As far as we are concerned, we are in favour of accepting the G2.100 agenda, expelling the period from the words: 'the suspension' to the words: 'the hypothesis', 'the hypothesis'. So the commitment mechanism for the government would be as follows: In accordance with the commitments already accepted by the Government, the Italian Red Cross Military Corps should be considered to be operational within the framework of the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u55	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur's view, also with regard to the agenda for the G2,100, which I believe falls within the main objective of finding a way of working for the Red Cross military corps in perspective and above all for Europe, which is the area in which it can fit in.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u56	Let us move on to Amendment 2.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, up to the words "the paragraphs 1" below. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2.2 to 2,100a are therefore not included. We move on to amendment 2.101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DIVINE (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.101, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Cotti (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Cotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Cotti (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Cotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DIVINE (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.102, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.103. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.103, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,100/1 is inadmissible. We move on to amendment 2.100/2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100/2, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, for the admissible part. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.100, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.8 is therefore excluded. A proposal for a rewording has been made on Amendment 2.9. I ask the first signatory, Senator Bertorotta, if you accept it. BERTOROTTA (M5S). Yes, Madam President, I accept that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u59	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, pursuant to Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to know the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on Amendment 2.9 (text 2). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Tonini, to give an opinion on Amendment 2.9 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u60	Madam President, I do not think that there is any additional burden, because it is simply a military garrison and it is specified that this military garrison will also have the task, within its operational capacity, to assist the civilian population.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u63	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would like to point out that, on Amendment 2.103, the vote of my Group wanted to be against, and not for. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u66	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we do not want to ask the Commission for further information, but at least for President Tonini to give a substantive opinion on the powers of his Commission and not on the substance of the measure. It is clear that what we want to know and understand is whether he believes that there is a need for cover or that there is no cost to the measure itself. It has not been understood since his speech, also because we have just witnessed a subornation by the witness.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u67	As far as the Presidency is concerned, however, the statement made by the President of the 5th Commission was clear that there was no burden.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u70	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to reread the text of the rewording of amendment 2.9 (text 2); the rapporteur has also read it twice, but honestly it has not been understood much, because the audio quality was poor. AIROLA (M5S). If you need someone with your voice, say so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, it's okay. The proposal for a rewording is as follows: In paragraph 9, after the words "de Daesh," insert the following: "also in order to facilitate requests for humanitarian aid from the civilian population." We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.9 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u73	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, our vote on Amendment 2.9 in the reworded text will, of course, be in favour. In this case we must thank the Defence Commission, both the rapporteurs and the Government, for having accepted in the text of the measure, at our request, an important step, because that our missions also include humanitarian aid to the people is something that is implied, but almost never specified. This amendment strengthens this aspect, which is very important.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u76	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). I am voting in favour of Amendment 2.9 (text 2) and I would ask that I be able to add my signature. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I assume Senator Bertorotta will accept this subscription. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u79	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are prepared to vote in favour of amendment 2.9 (text 2) but let us try to make some clarity. The problem arose also in the debate in the Commission and I address the President of the Tonini Budget Commission: if we have authorized, in relation to the mission area, a specific competence which is already defined and determined by intervention, sectors, operations and men, adding an additional task, namely humanitarian aid to persecuted civilian populations, albeit humanly understandable and acceptable, the "list of expenditure" which did not include this aspect. I cannot understand how the President of the Budget Commission can say lightly that this additional task can be done: if it is not covered it is not covered. If there was already provision for a specific coverage relating to the original text, it cannot be said that by adding one, two or ten additional functions these automatically can find cover.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u82	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I announce the vote in favour of amendment 2.9 by the Forza Italia Group, as reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u83	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.9 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would ask Senator Di Biagio if he accepts the proposal for the redrafting of the G2.100 agenda put forward by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u84	Madam President, I welcome the Government's and the rapporteurs' attempt to address such an important issue as the Red Cross, but I would ask that we be able to consider replacing the words: 'the suspension of the so-called 'c.d.' demilitarization procedure with the words: "the re-evaluation of the terms of demilitarization" in order to ensure the operational continuity of the body, which would be compromised with demilitarization itself. It is therefore a small change, but in my opinion it is extremely important that, in these terms, the operational need of the Red Cross military body as a whole within the framework of the European Union's civil protection mechanisms should be objectively framed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u85	I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Vattuone, to comment on the amendment proposed by the Senator of Biagio. Vattuone, rapporteur. Excuse me, President, I would like Senator Di Biagio to repeat his proposal. I understood the principle, but I didn't quite grasp the change. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Biagio, can you specify the change you proposed?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u86	I ask to replace the term: "Suspension" with the words: "Reevaluation of the terms of demilitarization in order to ensure the operational continuity of the Body."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u87	Madam President, as I said in my speech, demilitarisation is an important part of the privatisation process. Either we decide that we do nothing more and we close the issue, or, if we decide that demilitarization is an important component, with the instruments provided for in the current legislation we try to manage the problem. We cannot intervene on this point. This is in the state. In order to do other things, we may need to review the matter, but in another area.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u88	Senator Di Biagio, do you accept the previous rewording of the text proposed by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u89	Yes, ma'am. I consider it a small step forward but I will continue to reiterate the need to frame the whole Body within this structure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u90	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views. (at 11.29 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u91	Mr President, I am against Amendments 3.1, 3.2, 3.3 and 3.100a. I naturally support Amendments 3.100 and 3.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u92	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u93	Let us move on to Amendment 3.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we are calling for the vote on both this amendment and amendments 3.2 and 3.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 3.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, previously made by Senator De Cristofaro, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u96	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in this particular case no one has asked for an electronic vote, but we are voting automatically in this way. I therefore appreciate that we consider it a practice. From now on, we will automatically vote by electronic vote, otherwise the previous votes will have to be redone.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u97	There is such a convergence of thinking that I understand when you intend to request electronic voting but in this case, since the request has not been made, I cancel the vote. I put to the vote Amendment 3,100, tabled by the Joint Committees. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u100	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to cancel the vote on Amendment 3.1, because, in the same way, although it has not been requested, we have voted by electronic vote. Automatically. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 3.1 had the opposite view of the 5th Commission, so I asked Senator De Cristofaro if he insisted on having him vote. [[Applause from the PD Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). But it is support for the vote under Article 81 of the Constitution and not for the electronic vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Exactly. SANTANGELO (M5S). You do as you wish, I leave my remarks on the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u101	There's a shorthand report, Senator Santangelo. Let us move on to Amendment 3.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request, previously made by Senator De Cristofaro, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,100a, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u104	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I insist on the vote. It is probably necessary to ask for the support of the prescribed number of senators, because the Budget Committee has expressed an opinion against it. Is it ever possible? We are asking for a part of the mission to be removed, and in this case we are talking about 74,000 euros for a carabiniere located in Uganda, which is the cost of the carabiniere, probably net of expenses, travels and travels. If we ask for this part to be deleted, since there will be a surplus, is it possible for the Budget Commission to say that there is no coverage? For me it is madness, but we probably do not have the logic of accountantism with which the Budget Commission thinks.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u105	I believe that is because there would be no expenditure to keep the police officer there, but it is not indicated the coverage of the expenses necessary for his return and these are not foreseen. Isn't that right, President Tonini? TONINI (PD). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100a, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.4, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I invite the speakers and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda for G3.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u106	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u107	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u108	I ask the presenters if they want me to be put to the vote anyway. SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the agenda G3.100, presented by Senator Airola and other senators. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u109	Mr President, I will give a single explanation for Amendments Nos 4,100a, 4,101 and 4,102. We should participate, in the context of NATO, in the installation of anti-missile batteries to protect the South-East area, which would mean anti-Russia; in addition to batteries, we should also deploy 130 military. Paragraph 9, of which amendment 4102 proposes the abolition, is even expected to intensify the air space to the east of the alliance, in order to ensure the supply of AWACS aircraft, which are radar aircraft, exactly at the borders with Russia. Since we have repeatedly discussed the need to start a process of relaxation in relations between the European Union and Russia, these two operations seem very provocative to us and certainly do not go in the direction of a relaxation with Russia, which is the country that more than any other helps all European countries to fight against international terrorism.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u110	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 4.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u111	With the rewording requested by the 5th Commission, are you aware of this, Senator Di Biagio? DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yes, with the rewording requested by the 5th Commission. Amendment 4.4, to my first signature, renews the authorization, already foreseen, with a very long path, from the decree-law 28 December 2012, n. 227, converted with modifications, from the law 1 February 2013, n. 12, and renewed in the decree-law 18 February 2015, n. 7, then converted with modifications from the law 17 April 2015, n. 43, to the cession free of charge to the Government of the State of Eritrea of railway material declared out of service. I would point out that by the Government of Asmara there is the commitment, already several times guaranteed, to take charge of the logistic costs of transport of this material. We continue to disregard a commitment entered into for four years now, legitimized by legislative measures launched by Parliament and supported by the Government, not observing an agreement and animating the violation of a sort of legitimate expectation on the part of Eritrea that would, at present, lead to compromise the already scarce relations between the two countries. Therefore, Italy cannot continue to ignore an undertaking already made, especially if already ratified by Parliament, twice at the initiative of the Government itself. For these reasons, I ask the Government to accept amendment 4.4, in order to finally give credibility to the promises made by our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u112	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 4,500, which came directly to this House, which provides for the transfer of light weapons equipment to Iraq, at the request of Iraqi Kurdistan. This is an initiative that the Defence Commission has been following for a long time, calling to the hearing the Minister and the representatives of the Peshmerga that we are going to support, because they are, not the only ones, but those who are fighting an important battle against terrorism on the ground and this authorizes the free transfer of some weapons.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u113	Mr President, Amendment 4,100 is an amendment with a purely symbolic and political value and concerns the transfer of materials which Article 4 (6) of the measure authorizes to be carried out in 2016, without any new or increased burden on public finances, since these are spare parts for aircraft F-16 or other military equipment, to the countries listed in that Article. The amendment, adopted jointly by the Commissions, provides for the original text proposed by the Government to be debarked by the Arab Republic of Egypt, to which a series of spare parts would be donated for the F-16s they have in that country. The reason for this amendment is, of course, to put pressure on our Government by testifying, after the words in this House that have been heard very intensely by all political parties on the absolutely serious affair which affected the young Regeni in Egypt, the stop and go of the investigations and the difficulty of the Italian investigations, the fact that Parliament is still very vigilant in this regard. This is not an act of hostility with respect to the Arab Republic of Egypt, which continues to be our ally and of which we also recognize the strategic value at this time in the most complex affair concerning the fight against terrorism; however, we believe that our country has the title and right, as it did when it called the ambassador and with numerous subsequent acts, to continue to put pressure on public opinion and Egypt on this matter, so that we can arrive at an important clarification. In the general discussion on this same subject, things were said which went beyond the intentions of the Commission when they tabled this amendment. The intention is to act politically on a matter that is purely symbolic, giving our Government the condition to be able to relate to the Arab Republic of Egypt in a subjective way. Other solutions we have heard in the general debate, which involve dramatic interventions, are not part of the philosophy of this amendment and of our political direction. We do not intend to engage in acts of hostility towards the Arab Republic of Egypt, but we want to point out our position on a matter which has not yet been clarified.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u116	BEEPS (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask you a courtesy. Amendment 4,200 will be put to the vote, which was tabled during the work of the Commissions meeting on a proposal from the Government; since I did not understand the ratio, although it was approved by my colleagues, I would ask you to kindly ask the Government to explain it to us, because I did not understand it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u117	Senator Sposetti, when expressing our opinions, we will also ask the Government to clarify the aforementioned amendment, because I see that we are also talking about 16 musical instruments per band. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u118	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 4,500, 4,200, 4,100, 4.4, where the reformulation proposed by the Budget Commission, 4,300 and 4,400, is accepted. The remaining amendments were rejected. I would also like to express my favourable opinion on the agendas for G4,100, G4,101 and G4,102 with the possible rewording of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u121	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I wanted to table an amendment, but you gave the floor to the rapporteur for the opinions. However, I would ask you to be able to explain Amendment 4,100/1, of which I am a signatory together with Senators Tarquinio and Alicata. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, I give the government the floor for the opinion and then for you. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). The important thing is that I can also speak in an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Definitely. I will give you the floor as soon as the Government has finished expressing its views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u122	I also agree with the rapporteur on Amendment 4.4, in view of the favourable opinion we are giving on the reworded agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u123	There is also a request for clarification from Senator Sposetti on Amendment 4,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u124	The amendment responds to a specific request from the Somali Police Force and is part of the framework of assistance and cooperation in relations with Somalia. The command of the Somali police forces has requested cars equipped with the monitoring and tracking systems of telephone networks, as well as musical instruments for their own band.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u125	The favourable opinions on the agenda relate to rewordings, but nobody tells me what these rewordings are.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u126	On the agenda for 4,100 the rewording provides for the deletion from the premises of the fifth paragraph, which begins with the words "in July 2015"; the deletion in the ninth paragraph, after the words: "it would be possible to see the non-implementation of the words: "and in low-level mode" and the deletion of the following paragraph. The next paragraph beginning with the words: "the project" remains unchanged, while the next paragraph beginning with the words "Italy" is deleted. The device is instead modified as follows: after the words: "the Government undertakes to renew the authorization referred to in article 1, paragraph 32, of Decree-Law 28 December 2012, n. 227, converted, with amendments, from the law 1 February 2013, n. 12, to the aforementioned cession" is deleted the sentence that begins with the words: "in the within" until the end. This part shall be replaced by the following: Once the continued interest has been verified by Eritrea to the transfer and confirms its readiness to assume all the costs related to the collection and transport of the material and taking into account the evolution of the internal Eritrean political framework, including from the point of view of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The proposed rewording for the G4.101 agenda is as follows: the pre-conditions are deleted from the word 'constating' until the end. The system replaces the words: "to reconsider the choice concerning the following: "to evaluate our military participation in NATO activities to reassure the Baltic and Polish allies." They also replace the words: "removing it or reducing it to truly symbolic levels" with the following: "in the light of military commitments made with the UN, the European Union or NATO or foreseeable in other scenarios, starting from the Mediterranean." In the second point of the commitments the words are replaced: "to impose rigid national caveats" with the following: "to ensure that the commitment of the SAMP-T missiles in Turkey is risky." The following shall be substituted for the words from: "to the purpose" until "Republic of Turkey": "to keep within the strict limits provided for by the rules of engagement of the NATO mission to defend the territory and the population of Turkey against threats posed by possible missile launches beyond the Syrian border" With regard to the last part of the device, the rewording plans to replace the words: "to persevere" with the following: "to continue in the policy of reconciliation with Russia." With reference to the agenda G4.102, by Senator Divina and others, the rewording provides to delete the part of the premises that goes from the word: "underline" until the end. As regards the operative part, in the first point, after the words "competent seats', it is proposed to replace the remaining part with the following period: "because the relationship between the West and the Russian Federation, although frank, is constructive and collaborative'. Finally, the last point of the device would be as follows: "do not authorise the planning of any NATO manoeuvres and exercises that have declared and exclusive anti-Russian character." These are the proposed rewordings. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the Secretary to hand over the written texts so that the presenters can see them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u129	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to clarify by the rapporteur why he has expressed the opposite opinion - as well as the representative of the Government - to Amendment 4.5, at the first signature of Mr De Cristofaro, being the same basically identical to 4,100 of the Commissions meeting. In fact, Amendment 4,100 only includes point (b) of Article 4 of Decree-Law No 174 of 2015, while we expressly ask for the deletion of point (a) but the two amending proposals are essentially identical, so I believe that 4.5 may possibly be absorbed, but do not receive an opinion against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u132	Vattuone, rapporteur. I confirm and apologise for the misunderstanding. In fact, Amendment 4.5 would be incorporated into Amendment 4,100 if it were adopted. We deal with the same subject in a different way so that we do not run into the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 4.5 would be absorbed because it is essentially identical to 4,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u135	Mr DELLA VEDOVA, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. Mr President, I would like to correct the Government's position on Amendment 4,100, on which it refers to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u138	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to start from the last statement by Mr Della Vedova that on the amendment of the Commissions meeting 4,100 has returned to this House. We understand for a moment what we are talking about since, if we go to read the texts - I am talking about sub-amendment 4,100/1, first signature of my colleague Tarquinio, whom I support together with Senator Alicata - behind the cryptic formulas of these amendments and sub-amendments (suppress one letter, add another, and so on) there is one issue that Senator Sangalli explained clearly before. Italy, in fact, rightly asks Egypt for clarification on the dramatic story that saw the killing of the researcher Giulio Regeni. We all share the political and institutional reaction of our Government, because that story cannot remain without an epilogue, although in that Middle Eastern reality - alas - there are so many situations that then do not have sufficient clarity. Having made diplomatic moves, I am not a manager of the Egyptian military aviation, but in relation to the question I do not understand why it is the case to no longer supply spare parts from Italy to what is considered - first co-rapporteur Sangalli called it in exact terms the Egyptian Arab Republic - an ally with which there is a controversy regarding the dramatic story of the killing of Regens and I do not have to stay here to describe the dramatic moment, of rampant terrorism that is living humanity; Egypt is a country essentially at war. You see, fundamentalist Islamic terrorism in recent years is hitting, among other things, not only some Western objectives, such as Brussels airport, not only probably - we do not know yet, we are here in the House - from what the Turkish authorities, Istanbul airport, say, but it has hit tourism in Tunisia, in African countries, in Egypt, in countries where it is a outlet for employment. It also competes with our tourism. In any case, the growth of those countries, which if they develop tourism will occupy people who - perhaps - will travel less to Northern Europe. Moreover, if we say that we must contain immigration, then we must also help development. What's that got to do with anything? I remember that in Egypt terrorism also hits Egyptian targets to discourage the development of tourism in the areas of Sharm el Sheik, Marsa Alam and elsewhere. Egypt therefore needs armed forces. Of the current Egyptian regime, what was said about Gaddafi is said: it can also be admitted that it is not the non plus ultra from the point of view of democratic reputation, but what is, at the moment, the alternative to the Egyptian military? I would like to remind the House that el-Nasser was a military, supported by the Russians (at the time the world had other dichotomies), and that his successor - al-Sadat - was also a military, who was killed by military, or supposedly such, during a military parade (the fundamentalists of the time). His successor was not drawn by lot: Mubarak was a soldier who, during the parade, sat in the tribune of the authorities next to al-Sadat when he was killed. Al-Sisi is a military and, therefore, there is a sort of continuity. Under the ties with the Russians, the Americans became the great sponsors of Egypt, considered a bulwark towards fundamentalism and also a reality that then, with Israel and other countries, went on to sign treaties and agreements that cost the life of al-Sadat (which in fact was killed not because it was disliked, but because it did not follow the policy of fundamentalists). We're talking about a sensitive issue. You ask yourself: what do the spare parts center? I would point out that the Government has returned to the House, because, aware of the reports it must have, it has not married the cause of this amendment. With this amendment - and I say this to my fellow Members - we are voting on an act of hostility to Egypt by saying: we do not give you the spare parts of aircraft that are also used in Libya to counter the fundamentalists who occupy Sirte and other places. Colleagues - I also address the senators of the majority - I invite you to be careful. If the amendment tabled by Senator Tarquinio (which I have signed, although belonging to a group other than that of his colleague) were approved, the Government would not fall, nor would it fall if that of the Commissions were rejected. It's about the other day. The government survives an act of senate maturity. I say this in order to reassure someone: not that I do not want to drop the government, but I appeal to those who have the dual problem of keeping the government standing (a problem that I do not have) and voting on an amendment. I am saying this because it is a vote and it is not the third world war, nor are the intentions of transparency being disregarded. I'd like to say a few things about the Regeni case. On the weekly "Panorama" of June 26, I read the statements of Senator Giuseppe Esposito, who I do not see in the Chamber, who complained about the behaviour of the Egyptians, but of four professors or university assistants of the University of Cambridge (the names are also published, including the teachers Abdul Rahman, Anne Alexander and another professor or researcher) who have routed Regeni on studies in Egypt. They did not want to answer the questions of the public prosecutor Sergio Colaiocco, who is courageously investigating the case. Attorney Pignatone even went to Egypt; but in Egypt even if I do not justify the omerty, I can also understand what happens... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u139	Colleagues, I invite you to lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u140	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Who wants to listen, listen. The point is that if the Egyptians answer little, the teachers of Cambridge, I tell colleagues who care, like everyone else, the truth about Regens... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u141	Colleagues, I invite you to pay attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u142	President Casini, this issue should also concern your Commission. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). President Casini, I was saying that the Rome Public Prosecutor has found teachers in Cambridge reluctant, a reality that has also been mentioned in these days of Brexit. What sanctions can be imposed against Cambridge? Which airplane parts can we not send to Cambridge anymore? We're not gonna send him any more books? What are we gonna do? Don't we send the students anymore? Shall we do the Cambrexit? What do we have to do? Because also the Cambridge teachers do not respond, as pointed out by Senator Giuseppe Esposito, vice president of the Copasir, who is not now present in the Chamber, but who has made statements that I subscribe to. I'm going to conclude. In the field of investigation and secrets, on the Middle East side there is almost a semi-war in Egypt. We do not give him the spare parts of the planes that fight terrorism in Libya, Egypt and elsewhere. Attention, attention, colleagues you will be voting on. Senator Tarquinio's sub-amendment 4,100/1 allows us to maintain an alliance relationship in a position that nevertheless demands the truth, that withdraws the ambassador and that does everything you want towards Egypt (and I share), but not with a self-injury in disarming someone who fights terrorism. While we want all this from Egypt - I say it with respect - the other day President Mattarella said to stop with opacity on Ustica, in a letter on the occasion of the anniversary of this event. I, Senator Giovanardi, Senator Quagliariello and other colleagues, as parliamentarians, have seen some parliamentary acts (I and Senator Giovanardi are members of the Committee of Inquiry into the abduction and death of Aldo Moro) and we have asked for the descretation of some 1980 papers which are filed at the Security Services. We have read them in the exercise of our parliamentary functions, with the obligation of secrecy, so obviously I will not say what is written. Other colleagues who have seen them have different interpretations than ours. However, we are asking for transparency, as well as for the case of the Regeni, rightly to the professors of Cambridge mentioned in the article of "Panorama" and to the Egyptian authorities, also on our events relating to terrorism. As far as the 1980 events are concerned, it is by chance that the documents are from the Middle East. Then, as President Mattarella says, no more opacity. Take up the secret of state on those documents, as we have asked several times together with Senator Giovanardi and others. Everything is held, because transparency must be demanded in Cambridge, Egypt and also in Italy, on sealed documents. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] From 1980 to 2016 thirty-six years have passed; frankly, it seems to me that it is an entire era. The protagonists of the time - alas - I believe that they are all dead or, in any case, out of the institutional circuits. We want a bit of clarity about terrorism; and from those papers we understand many things about the Middle East and about contexts that are closely linked to the fight against terrorism and the fight against fundamentalism. It doesn't involve the Egyptian spare parts with the secreted acts; but the fight against terrorism yes, which has also damaged Italy, with the massacres of Bologna, Ustica and so on. Amendment 4,100/1 at the first signature of Senator Tarquinio tries to prevent a wrong choice. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Government has returned to this House, let us be conscious.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u143	He has not returned to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u144	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). We want the truth about the Regeni case, but let's not play the game of terrorism, disarming those who fight it. I would not consider the return of the Muslim Brotherhood to Egypt a positive fact. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u145	Let us move on to Amendment 4.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BERTOROTTA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BERTOROTTA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,500. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,500 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u148	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, on Amendment 4,200, rather than addressing the rapporteurs and the government, I prefer to address the citizens who are outside, because we need to clarify. Let's start reading it: For the year 2016, the sale to the Federal Republic of Somalia, free of charge, is authorised - which is not, as I will explain, free of charge - of four cars equipped with GSM/GPRS (GA 900) mobile phone monitoring and tracking systems, as well as sixteen musical instruments per band. I'll explain. This is the decree-law on international missions and first of all it is unacceptable for Italy to provide any kind of arms to Nations such as Somalia; in a report not of the 5 Star Movement, but of the UN of 5 June 2015, the war crimes committed by these Nations using child soldiers are indicated. It is absolutely shameful that instruments should be provided which could be used by these nations to intercept telephone networks. As if that were not enough - here it seems that we all have the ham on our eyes - we put at the end of the words that maybe make many smile, but not us of the Movement 5 Stars such as: musical instruments. Mr President, citizens outside, it is unacceptable that we should continue with this system of gifts. Among other things, everyone fills their mouths with the word "free," but it is not free, because if we want to give musical instruments to these populations, we should say to them: They are here in Italy, come and get them for you. Because we pay for transport and insurance. This whole system feeds on the billions of euros we have been giving in these international missions for years; to be exact, in this case it is 1.3 billion euros. Compared to the last decree-law on missions, there are 400 million euros more. What game are we playing? It is impossible even to get an explanation from the Government, and in this regard I draw your attention to giving explanations. How can we not even listen to a UN report? Amnesty International also has specific documentation on this. And Italy also incurs sanctions in relation to this. Article 11 of the Constitution is clear, not for me, but for everyone: Italy repudiates war, and we must absolutely avoid arming any kind of population around the world. There is absolutely no good conflict between Daesh, ISIS and terrorism, because that is not how they fight. We therefore declare our vote absolutely contrary to this arms transfer, as well as to all other disposals. In front of this I say: but all those who have made the marches for peace, the pseudo-sinistroids within this Parliament, where are they within the PD? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Where are you standing in front of these things? TONINI (PD). But where are the weapons? It's for a band. SANTANGELO (M5S). Get out in front of something simple. You can simply press the red button and vote no on amendments that are a big scumbag. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Tonini's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u151	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak on this amendment, apart from what has just been said, also because of a balanced financial coverage of the whole measure. This amendment would become part of the body of Article 4, which, together with Articles 1, 2 and 3, has a specific, punctual, 100th coverage in Article 11. In fact, in paragraph 1 of this article we talk exactly of a need for cover of 1,272. 679,711 euro for the contents of Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4, paragraph 11 excluded, 8 and 9 of this Decree. If we add to these articles a further datum, even if not in money, but in value of goods, it is clear that the coverage must also be changed accordingly, but this has not been done. Unfortunately, in the Budget Committee, this in-depth analysis has not been carried out - I ask President Tonini - so much so that the Government, especially in paragraph 4, has also had to specify the value of the individual goods that were going to yield. Therefore, in my opinion, Amendment 4,200 is absolutely clear, even from the point of view of Article 81. After that, I also speak for an overall notation. All these dates authorized by law in my opinion represent, if not an anomaly, certainly a singularity compared to those that are the goods that normally the Ministry of Defense, through procedures provided within the Armed Forces, each year considers no longer of instrumental value or economic value. I'll explain. If we also have to authorize the donation of seven musical instruments to the gang of the Somali Federal Republic, we should all the more be aware of how many values are declared no longer existing each year in the inventory of the Ministry of Defence. However, it is not given any weight because this is done through normal regulations and without leaving the national territory. Which, then, is all to happen. They are, however, declared annually no longer usable materials that amount to several million euros, if not hundreds or billions. I cannot know the exact amount right now, because we have never received the lists. With the same procedure, and with a rule that the Government could propose, rather than going to perform in these minutiae, which also provokes the right protest of many colleagues placed before such a laughable or even disguised evidence, the Government, but also the Parliament and the Defence Commission, should have the eagerness to establish some criteria within which the Minister of Defence, in agreement with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, can provide, if not to the bestowals, for the donations of war material or even of civil support to the people. The Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs could proceed quietly by joint decree, within certain limits of expenditure laid down by the norm. This should establish a rule: to give an operational power to the Government, which very often works also in the field of observance of treaties. We have all been concerned in the past with the observance of the treaties with the border countries of Africa, precisely as regards the fight against migratory phenomena, and we know very well that these treaties contain, at the request of our interlocutors, mostly donations of material, even more than donations of money. I must say that I am very perplexed at the way in which the government operates. I am very perplexed at how Parliament is to be forced, even through a debate which very often cannot be deepened, to enter into the substance of matters where Parliament should not enter. I am also referring to what we have heard about the proposals which, of course, come together, not only on the part of the Government but also on the part of other Members of Parliament. Since this is the system, everyone feels authorized to propose further interventions. On this amendment, I personally will abstain, more because of problems of method than because of problems of merit and also because of the strong doubt I have about the fact that it has financial cover. The Government has taken care to provide financial cover on Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. As this amendment enters the body of Article 4, it was necessary to quantify the value of these 4 cars and of these 16 musical instruments per band, although they would be sold free of charge, in the sense that they would not be paid. Therefore, precisely for this reason, it was necessary for the Government to tell us, as it did in letters (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of paragraph 4, how much these cars cost and how much we cancel, from the point of economic visa, from the value of inventory of the assets that are currently held by our Armed Forces. I would like to make one final remark on paragraph 4: I find it singular that when the government decides to give an ambulance, it also indicates its brand. In fact, I understand that this is done for an armament, which can only be produced by a particular company that builds weapons and therefore is an absolutely specific type, but that the Government, in a law order, must ask the Parliament to give a FIAT ambulance, rather than Peugeot or other brand, is absolutely singular. The same applies to trailers: there are a lot of them. You race and decide to spend a certain amount to give away the trailers. I understand that you may have them in charge, but I do not understand why Parliament should be allowed to give an ambulance that is FIAT. Why, if it's Peugeot, can't it be given? Or the sale of trailers that are Bartoletti, but not of other famous trailer factories. What's that Apulian's name? D'ANNA (AL-A). Romanazzi. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). As long as - I repeat - these are specific weapons, we know that they are produced by well-identified firms. I say this to invite the government to intervene more punctually. On musical instruments at this point you should also know if they are Steinway or other brand. I apologise to my fellow Members for their time on this issue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u152	With regard to the various government amendments to Article 4 which have been referred to, the Government provided, together with the amendments, specific technical reports so as to put the Budget Commission in a position to appreciate whether or not there were additional costs. At a time when we are dealing with an amendment like this, where, as you can see, there is no commitment to expenditure and no reference to a technical-financial issue, it is specified in the accompanying technical report that the amendment does not involve any new or increased burden on public finances. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). That is what the technical report says. Mr Rossi, State Secretary for Defence. This means that, in this particular case, unlike some amendments in which expenditure has been included, because the transport and packaging of the material entails charges, in this case, instead, the third country referred to, which is Somalia, will take on its own all the materials, both with regard to cars, and with regard to musical instruments for the band, and bring them, motu proprio, to the country of origin. That is why the Budget Commission, when receiving the technical report from the Government, did not make any comments. With regard to the request to bring to the attention of Parliament certain disposals, this is obviously nothing more than the combined arrangement of two elements: one of a bureaucratic-administrative nature of loading and unloading and the other because we are in the supply of material to a third country which is generally ratified by Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u155	BEEPS (PD). Mr President, I will not speak on matters of financial cover. I appeal only to the representatives of the Government, to the rapporteurs and to the two Presidents of the Commission to defend the dignity of this palace with greater force and style on some occasions. In fact, if we are forced to vote a law to give 16 musical instruments to another country it is clear that those who read this norm tomorrow will wonder what is being done at Palazzo Madama! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Quagliariello and Rizzotti]] I do not want to be considered "the one who is in Palazzo Madama" to vote for the delivery of 16 musical instruments. It is not a question of coverage, that is the cost of the 16 musical instruments. Anyone who has acquitted us of military service knows that the delivery of 16 musical instruments is normally entrusted to the furier who solves the question of how and where to deliver them. Only the youngest do not know these things. But why should we be forced to cover ourselves up so ridiculously? Mr Santangelo obviously takes advantage of the distractions of the representatives of the government, the Executive presents the proposals and we, being part of the majority, are often bound. We do not, however, have eyes covered in ham, Senator Santangelo, because before you the problem raised it myself and was raised unmistakably in the Budget Committee where we were present to give the opinion on the cover. But we can also read the amendment and ask ourselves what it has to do with it, why it is necessary to examine it, discuss it and get to grips with it? So the representatives of the government should be more lovable and attentive, even if it is true that they are currently on the phone: a fundamental activity when you are in the Assembly! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Formigoni and Rizzotti]] Why should we give Senator Santangelo room for an intervention that I do not share in the tone? I would have shared it if you had reduced it by two minutes and 30 seconds and just said it was ridiculous. Why do you have to give room to my colleague Santangelo, who can do these things well? Therefore, either the amendment will be withdrawn or I will vote against it, so that if someone in a television broadcast were to say that the Senate is useless I will send a message that it is useless because the government makes us vote on these things. But as long as the Senate is there, we have the right and the duty to say that these things in a Parliamentary Assembly cannot happen. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut and CoR Groups.]] Is that a deal? It's administrative. If it is part of an agreement, we approve of the agreement within which there are 50 pages, 100 paragraphs and 200 articles. So either the amendment will be withdrawn or my vote will be against. I apologise to the Group president for not communicating it in advance, but my vote will be against. The red ball needed a specification, President Zanda. Sposetti's red ball needs this specification. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut, LAL and CoR Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u158	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, in fact, it is almost a species that we focus on a lack of such a fact. Therefore, precisely because it is an inezia, it triggers reactions, including the very shared reactions of my colleague, Mr Sposetti. However, we could also say 'Let us run', because in this case we are talking about giving free to Somalia four vehicles equipped for monitoring telephone networks and some musical instruments. We can't even know it: there probably exists a gang of ours who decided to return without instruments donating them to the national gang of that country. However, if we want to focus on the disposals, we should look, for example, at the one made to Uganda because three A109 helicopters are quite a financial commitment. Maybe it could be useful for maintaining relations with that country and therefore, in that case, the discussion would have been a little more meaningful and perhaps even smarter. But, at this point, having the government here before, comes from asking a question about another small inezia, a banality. I am referring to the 10,000 garments, waterproof from free exit (probably those in livery, those for celebration), which will be sold and left in Lebanon. Since we have a little more than 900 men in Lebanon, the question automatically arises: But if we have a quota of less than 1,000 people, who has supplied the store clerk for the supply of 10,000 garments for less than 1,000 men on that territory? I would expect a brief response from the government. Imagine if this happened in the private sector: if the Standa's clothing manager at the end of the season had a stock of 10,000 items of clothing, probably the general manager from the next day would send him to do only the set-up of the fish counter. It would be nice to know who supplies these supplies and by what criteria. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to warn the groups that at the moment Forza Italia and Lega have run out of time at their disposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u160	On the order of business, I imagine, because for Forza Italia, among other things, Senator D'Alì has already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u161	I call Mr Gasparri. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have a very brief question on the order of business. In a previous phase, she, as Minister, with the flamethrower (fashionable), had burned many laws. Why do we have to give trombones by law? Does it take a law to give horns to Somalis? So my question, addressed to the President, is also as a delegator: is there a reserve of law on the transfer of trombones or, as Senator Sposetti says, a furier can also give 16 trumpets to Somalis? Or is it Senator Tonini who requires a legislative process? Mine's a question. Forget about the cars, but about the trumpets? I wouldn't want us to look like the famous trombone, Mr Trumpet, and ridicule the Senate with the trumpet law. The trumpets can give them to him. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u164	Vattuone, rapporteur. Mr President, in the light of the debate that has taken place, I would like to respond to a number of statements, in particular that of Senator Santangelo, who, together with other Members of this House, has even proposed the transfer of equipment and arms to Afghanistan, Djibouti, the Republic of Tunisia, Iraq and others by means of Amendment 4.2. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] That's to say there's... [[Senator Santangelo's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u165	Colleagues, everyone was able to speak. Now let us listen to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u166	Vattuone, rapporteur. Either we focus on a general principle, or... However, in the light of the discussion that has taken place, although I know that this is a request from Somalia, I would propose that we withdraw the amendment and revise it, if necessary, on another occasion, because it is so irrelevant in the context of the Mission Decree that I would not want to waste all the reasoning as a whole. I would therefore propose to the Government, which has submitted it (since we have approved it in the Commission and proposed it to the House and that the amendment was tabled by the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a) to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u167	Senator Sangalli, do you agree with this proposal? Mr Sangalli, rapporteur. I agree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is how I respond to Senator Gasparri; Senator, we must not only respond to laws, regulations and delegification. We must respond to the need not to expose ourselves to ridicule, which is the main issue. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u170	MARTON (M5S). President. - I call you. What I heard from Senator Vattuone a little surprises me and a little disgusts me. He just said that we have tabled amendments for arms transfer to Afghanistan and so on. It's a fake resounding. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't hear that. MARTON (M5S). He said exactly that, that we proposed other things. That's not fair. We have tabled precisely amendments which go in the opposite direction. CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). What is this intervention? What are we talking about? MARTON (M5S). Our amendments go in the opposite direction, so much so that in Amendment 4,100/2 - which I would invite you to read - we ask that we put in writing, in law, that no free supply of weapons and weapons systems be permitted for the benefit of countries whose laws and governments violate human rights or train and use combat manoeuvres. All of our amending activities have been aimed at avoiding the transfer, in any way, by the Italian Government, to states in war and violating human rights. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now, hearing me say that we have tabled amendments to send weapons to Afghanistan disgusts me and it is not right on the part of the rapporteur. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u173	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, I apologise to my fellow Members for this raid on a measure which I did not follow in the Commission. I would like to say, however, that the attribution of falsehood to the rapporteur by Mr Marton, I could answer it on a false charge to Senator Santangelo. In fact, when Senator Santangelo protested against amendment 4200 of the Joint Commissions he explicitly referred to the fact that this amendment would allow the free transfer of arms to Somalia. That's fake. It is false, because the amendment includes, in addition to the famous musical instruments, the transfer of four cars equipped with a monitoring and tracking system of mobile phone networks, which are those used by our police forces also for telephone and environmental interceptions. Moreover, the question is not to give to Somalia any kind of good, except of course the weapons referred to in the amendment now mentioned by my colleague Mr Marton; so much so that Amendment 4.2, by Senators Bertorotta, Lucidi, Santangelo and Marton, prior to amendment 4200, provided for the 5 Star Movement's proposal to give free medical equipment to the Federal Republic of Somalia, not better identified, and four dinghy-type vessels. Therefore, arms were neither in Amendment 4.2 of the 5 Star Movement nor in Amendment 4200 of the Joint Commissions. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That is the truth, then it was decided to withdraw the amendment, but at least let us restore, also for a correctness towards the citizens to whom Senator Santangelo addressed and who do not have the file of the amendments before them, the truth of the facts. [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). What wars have you waged in 20 years, Finocchiaro? [[Protests from the PD Group]] You suck! You suck!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u174	Senator Airola, I'll call you back. Senator Marton, I do not give you the floor because the amendment has been withdrawn, everyone has spoken and at this point there is no reason to speak. [[Protests of Senators Airola and Montevecchi.]] AIROLA (M5S). Don't be a fascist.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u176	Senator Marton, I really give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u177	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say to President Finocchiaro that there are dual-use, dual-use technologies: military and civil. Interception equipment can also be used as weapons, whereas for medical equipment this is not possible. You're too smart not to understand the difference between dual-use devices (i.e. civil and military) and medical devices, so I'm sorry to contradict you in this case. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, to clarify the ideas, precise that the four electromedical equipment and the dinghy are in the text of the decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u180	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the speech has opened for me and it can also be closed. However, frankly, I do not believe that we are doing a good service on the basis of elements which may also have a picturesque character, such as trombones, in order to arrive at the abolition and withdrawal of amendments or parts of the measure under consideration, which for us may also be insignificant but are not so for the Somali authorities who have long requested this material and whose request we are not responding to today. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] With reference to the theme of armored cars, on the day before yesterday there was an attack on the main hotel in Mogadishu, which works as a base, where dozens of people died. Therefore, we joke about trombones here, we discuss other matters, we do some controversy, but tomorrow morning the Somali authorities will not enter into these picturesque cases, but they will see that the Italian Parliament says no to their right demands. It's incomprehensible. Frankly - I have to say the truth - I think that the rapporteurs have done extraordinary work with patience, but I would not have given in on this point either to the idea of removing parts of the text, because by doing so we are harming it. I would like to say to the government that Senator D'Alì has made good points. These specifications, presented in these terms, ridicule the legislative situation and are of no use at all. I do not think there is any need to indicate the type: now in the legislative provision you get to indicate the number plate [[Applause from Senator Pegorer]] The government can be even smarter, because in this case it is a problem of intelligence and nothing else [[Applause from Senator Candiani),]] in presenting cases of a universal nature within which to understand the means which are intended to be disposed of, otherwise we discuss completely unnecessary issues because of a legislative form that is astral to the needs. However, the result of all this is that we weaken solidarity with a country like Somalia, so if we think we have done a good thing we are all happy. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). What about Egypt?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u181	Amendment 4,200 has therefore been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 4.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator de Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Now, since I have an innumerable number of Members to speak on Amendments Nos 4,100/1 and 4,100, I would like to move on to the speeches at the end of the sitting and we will resume the examination of the measure in the afternoon. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u183	Colleagues to the government benches, Senator Granaiola must intervene. If you want to argue, go take him out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u184	[[Brusio.]] President Casini, Senator Russo, would you please discuss this outside? [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u185	Undersecretary, President Casini: I call you back. Senator Granaiola is trying to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u186	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, I would also like to try because the subject is rather sensitive. Seven years have passed from that tragic 29 June 2009 in which the goods train 50325 derailed in the station of Viareggio and the escape of gas from a cistern continent GPL caused an unprecedented railway disaster. 32 people died and a large number of injured people from that time are still under heavy medical care today. The Public Prosecutor of Lucca sent 42 defendants, 33 natural persons and nine companies to trial. The chiefs of import are: manslaughter train disaster, manslaughter, murder and multiple manslaughter injuries, as well as numerous occupational safety violations. The judgment of first instance will be issued before the imminent limitation period (end 2016), but these offences will be prescribed before the appeal judgment. Family members with their own strength are struggling for justice to be done and the prescription would be a further great unbearable pain. Since the trial was characterized by a serious imbalance between the rights of the offended and the rights of the accused, having the State Railways mobilized to defend the accused leaders and its companies as many as 25 lawyers of clear fame, in addition to the ranks of assistants of each lawyer, I have submitted a question to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Transport to know who is paying the huge expenses of the directors of the State Railways, a company 100% owned by the State. Today the city of Viareggio remembers the deaths of that cursed night to gather around the family members of the victims and reaffirm the need for justice that, even today, after seven years, has not arrived and risks never arriving if the mechanism trap of the prescription for which, from the second degree onwards, fire and injury will disappear as if nothing had happened. I want to thank the Labour Accidents Commission for having decided to project in September the video "Everywhere Protects" which is traveling around the world and which has been awarded in Cannes because it succeeds, in the space of a short film, to narrate with great effectiveness the burden of pain of an entire wounded city that shouts: "No to prescription and yes to justice and security" [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u189	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, the subject is always the same. Of course, it's a day of mourning for all of us. It is the anniversary of the massacre of Viareggio station, now the seventh. I remind everyone that that massacre caused 32 deaths: women, men and children perished. Unfortunately, today there is still a risk of a prescription for certain crimes, such as the fire and the injury, and I also remember that the bill on the prescription has been rotting for a year in the Commission justice to the Senate (and who knows why!). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Something didn't work that damn night. If a tank loaded with LPG derailed and exploded, taking away the lives of 32 people, something did not work. People died of fire and flames, even after many days of terrible agony. The then CEO Moretti, only eleven months after that immense tragedy, for which he is accused together with 32 other people, was honored with the title of work knight by former President Giorgio Napolitano, an honor that should be attributed to those who are an example for all citizens. Never was more honored, especially if we remember that during the management of engineer Moretti there were almost 50 deaths between drivers and maintenance workers, employees of the Railways and contractors, to which more than 60 passengers died from railway accidents, often caused by serious deficiencies and lacked investment in safety. I think that politics should not remain indifferent to the appeal made by the family associations of the victims, who have been demanding for many years that the title of work knight be revoked to engineer Moretti. As early as February 19, 2014, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, I filed a motion for the revocation of the title of work knight, but since then it has been lying in drawers. Facts, President: people want facts, not announcements. This tragedy affects us all very closely, especially us Tuscans, so in recent days I have written an open letter to all senators (especially Tuscans), sure that the sharing and the signing of the motion would not have been lacking. In these days the associations involved have received the support of a charter of intentions signed by many municipal administrations, provincial and by the Region, in sign of solidarity: to further conviction, now more than ever, that a strong and clear signal must be given, penalty for the loss of credibility. Will we all be able to do a battle of justice, honor and truth together? For the record, I remember that it was Matteo Renzi who commissioned Moretti, from CEO of Ferrovie to CEO of Finmeccanica, with consequent extraordinary economic and career advantages. Will this Senate be able to row against the will of King Giorgio Napolitano? We'll see about that soon. No more pats on the shoulders. The citizens and family members of the victims want the facts. We join their cry of justice and expect you tonight in Viareggio to gather around them, all together. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u192	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I ask you to pay attention to the tragedy that is taking place in Calabria, exactly in the Plain of Gioia Tauro, with reference to the port of Gioia Tauro, which was to represent a flagship of the Region in order to allow it to resume its share in economic, social and industrial terms in the Mediterranean area, in order to allow the Calabrians not to be forced - as if there were a cynical and baroque destiny, as someone loved to say - to emigration. Well, that port is dying practically in the indifference of all, starting from the institutions: 442 workers are the subject of a litigation, of a dispute promoted near the MISE, for which it has been asked an intervention also to the Presidency of the Council, with the presence of the president of the Oliverio Region, of the vice minister Bellanova and I hope also - because, moreover, also Calabrian - of the Undersecretary Antonio Gentile. In essence, 442 workers fear that an experience which had to be decisive will soon come to an end. In fact, however, due to the shortsightedness and ignorance of political institutions, which should protect the territory in a healthy way, they have been abandoned to themselves with an operator who does what he wants, according to economic-commercial logic that penalise the rights of the person and the community, having as its sole objective profit. Since in this field are the Chinese those who are moving the commercial directions towards the Adriatic, the port of Gioia Tauro, that - I repeat - it had to be a hope, now it is dead. I would like to conclude by reminding everyone that although South GDP grew by 1% in 2015 (in Italy by 0.8) in Calabria, the only South Region, employment has been lost. We lost 7,400 jobs. In the 15- to 34-year-old age group (which already started with very low employment levels) a percentage of 7.7 percent was lost, while in the 35- to 54-year-old group this percentage was 0.1 percent. There was only consolidation in the 55-year-old age group to rise. This means that Calabria, even more than the other regions, is becoming a place from which it is necessary to leave and emigrate. I would remind you that the employment rate in Italy is 56.3%, while in Calabria it is 38.9%. It seems to me that Calabria is also part of Italy and the Government will have to remember it because this Region itself is very often unaware of its duties. I still remember that about two thirds of the Calabrian unemployed are long-term unemployed. If this is the Region that must cultivate hope, it would come then to repeat the President of the Council Matteo Renzi on one of the next occasions when he will go to this Region, if he has the willingness to receive the workers and meet the population, without using secondary income and closing in prefectures in which he is solemnly defended as the simulacra of power that have nothing democratic. [[Applause from Senator Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-649.ana.u193	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.55 p.m.
