ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u4	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2223, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 1662.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the agenda provides for the ratification of five international treaties aimed at preventing and combating terrorism. It is understood that the issue is extremely topical and urgent, considering the constant threat to which we have been subjected for the past two decades. Terrorism is considered by the United Nations Security Council to be a threat to international peace and security and it follows that the States Parties to the United Nations must do everything necessary to combat it. All the more so in our country, the nerve of the landings of migratory flows in the Mediterranean area, the danger of terrorism turns out to be real and looming, not to mention the Jubilee Year of Mercy, a target too greedy for all those exalted bullies who use religion as an instrument of control of the unarmed masses. Exalted bullies: there is no other term to describe those who defy the Father's name and will to justify mass murders committed to the detriment of ignoring victims from as many victims of inhuman brainwashing. The evidence is in fact this: brothers who kill other brothers in the name of a God who has nothing to do with the uniqueness and unity of the God of the Jews, Christians and Muslims, who believe to serve, while - in reality - they are subject, mind and body, in search of the absolute power of their so-called spiritual leaders. I immediately remember what our Lord Jesus said against the so-called guides blinded by the power and exclusivity of their status: "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, who shut the kingdom of heaven before men; for so you do not go in there, and do not let in even those who want to enter it. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, who walk through the sea and the earth to make one proselyte and, having obtained it, make him the son of Gehenna twice as much as you do (Matthew 23:13-15). We have been too passive witnesses of terrifying events that have shaken the whole of Europe and that make us reflect on how much the human being is still capable of barbarism after centuries of so-called progress. However, we must not confuse the proper commitment to the prevention of such crimes against humanity with the rejection of all and all forms of assistance to the brothers in need, also considering a crime against humanity and against God any wall or containment plan to free us from unwelcome guests, because they are potentially dangerous. I am referring, of course, to what has happened recently in countries of the European Union much more civil and democratic than our own, at least what they say. Then the Lord said to Abraham: "Know that your descendants will be aliens in a land not their own; they will be made slaves and will be oppressed for four hundred years. But the nation which they have served, I will judge it: afterward they shall go forth with great riches." Thus we read in Bible Genesis (Chapter 15, verses 13 and 14). The history of the chosen people is that of a line of migrants in search of the house of the Father, the Promised Land, that is, a land in which to live without guilt, nor condemned by joint heirs with Christ, in which the Lord will give us all his love and gratitude. I don't want, I can't and I don't have to stimulate your memory to history the exit, the escape, the Jewish people from the violence of the Egyptians. They, the Jews, the sons of Abraham (our father), enslaved, exploited by a people who claimed to be superior, as a worshiper of deities who allowed him to dialogue with the afterlife and to build by means of the pyramids the guarantee of his immortality. The children of Abraham, our brothers, considered a people of poor shepherds, worshipers of a lesser God, were to be exploited and abused (according to the Egyptians' mentality) and their services were to be returned, paid, with a piece of hard bread and a bowl of water. How many dead, how much violence and this because of the man who often thinks he is superior, by virtue of theological beliefs that lead a people to consider their God better, greater, more powerful, more just than another God. Enough, we must say enough to this wrong and distorted vision, that some human beings and some peoples have carried on sacrificing millions of their brothers. Ladies and gentlemen, Italian citizens who are listening to us, Jews, Christians and Muslims, you servants of one God, monotheism, the same monotheism as our ancient and always young father Abraham. He, Abraham, is the founder of monotheism and we must never forget him. From Abraham the Jewish people will be born, from his descendant Ishmael, son of Abraham and the slave of his wife Sarah, the Arab Agar, Islam and Isaac, fruit of the promise made by Elohim to Abraham and Sarah, the great Jacob will be born and his descendants will start Christianity. Three great monotheistic religions; three great faiths, which must be respected; three great peoples, the Jewish people, the Christian people and, finally, by historical chronology, the Islamic people. All three sons of the only earthly father: Abraham. Now I ask you and I ask myself: can all these sons of the only father wage war with each other? Can they slaughter themselves? Can they exploit themselves? Can they not talk? Can they not love each other? Can they not respect each other? No more wars, no more violence between the children of the same father. Let us not lose sight of what I have just said to you, that almost four thousand years ago Judaism was born and from Judaism, about two thousand years ago, Christianity and about one thousand four hundred years ago, Islamism. Three ways of seeing the one God, creator of the world, of the visible and of the invisible, creator of the universes that surround us and of all the living beings that inhabit it, our brothers also the latter because created by those who have put all existence into being. Brothers and sisters, children of the only father and servant of God, Abraham, let us open ourselves to dialogue and let us all seek together, Jews, Christians and Islamics, to find a peaceful understanding that can only give positive fruits to humanity all and not divisions that generate only fratricides. I hope that my words, my reflections and my prayers can be a motive and a stimulus at the governmental and diplomatic level for the long-awaited dialogue to take place. Without dialogue there can be no future, without dialogue there can be no life. Think of Christianity. In Christianity God himself makes himself dialogue, Word; God himself chooses to become a true man in order to understand how best to be able to dialogue with human beings. He sends his only son, the Only Son, to earth in order to strengthen the dialogue that had broken in the Old Testament, and precisely in the first book of the Pentateuch (Genesis), a book of faith for us Christians but also for the Jewish brothers. With the sin of Adam and Eve, the dialogue between God and man is interrupted, their corruption will lead to the birth of death, disease, despair, imperfection, chaos, lack of dialogue between God and man. But after almost two long millennia, Elohim will send his messenger Jesus Christ, the Anointed, the consecrated, his Word; dialogue will become flesh and this in order to be able to re-dialogue with us human beings, in order to rebuild the covenant between God and man, to redeem the children of Adam and Eve, to cleanse them from their sins, to make them reborn to new life. The new Adam, Jesus Christ, King and Savior of mankind, will lay the foundations for redeeming all mankind and re-admiting it before God, and thus leading it to heavenly Jerusalem, the new Eden, the new paradise, the afterlife. He begins to make us perceive the "already," and in the "not yet" and in earthly eschatology he constantly prepares us with the Word of God, with the dialogue that, thanks to the Word made flesh, for us and for our salvation, makes us savor what we will then enjoy definitively in heaven. Ladies and gentlemen, administrators of the State, humanity needs a strong dialogue between the three great monotheistic religions and international legislation that can make it clear that between brothers and sisters the only weapon to adopt is that of love. On the substance of the bill, it forms part of international cooperation on the prevention and repression of terrorism. The first of the five Treaties to be ratified is the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Italy signed it in June 2005. The text of the Convention identifies the profiles of new criminals linked to the carrying out of acts of terrorism: reference is made to the public provocation (incitement and apology), the commission of a terrorist offense, the recruitment and training of terrorist activities which results in the provision of instructions for the manufacture and use of explosives, firearms, harmful and dangerous substances, as well as specific methodologies for the commission of terrorist acts. On the subject of provocation, however, I believe that I must open a small but necessary parenthesis on the fact that I also find it profoundly wrong to ridicule religion, which nowadays is widely diffused and doomed for freedom of speech, reaching true forms of unacceptable blasphemy, by not only a believer, but also by those atheists who, however, openly profess respect for other sensibilities. "He who blasphemes the name of the Lord must be put to death: the whole community must stone him. Foreigner or native of the land, if he has blasphemed the name of the Lord, he will be put to death (Leviticus 24:16). Obviously I do not want in any way to justify violence in the name of any right, including the most sacred right of freedom of worship, but I want to make you reflect on the fact that a simple and harmless verbal violence, in certain contexts of backwardness or poverty, can provoke, even in the most meek people, an anger that can be adequately ride and pushed towards unpredictable directions. God is hope and sometimes he is the only wealth, the priceless one that remains to those who have nothing. And we must not allow ourselves to underestimate this in the name of a so-called cultural progress that relegates faith to mere skirmishing or drugs for the stupid. "Why do you look at the straw that is in your brother's eye, and do you not notice the beam that is in yours?" I refer to the fact that incitement to religious hatred cannot be condemned in one case and underestimated, indeed almost justified, in another, because it is always about hatred and as such it must be eradicated on all fronts from what it wants to consider a civil society. The second is the Protocol of Amendment to the European Convention for the Suppression of Terrorism, although at international level it has not yet entered into force, because not all States Parties to the Convention have expressed their consent to be bound by the Protocol. The third ratification concerns the Council of Europe Convention on money laundering, research, seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of crime and on the financing of terrorism. Specifically, the Treaty extends the 1990 Convention, which regulates the same subject matter. Now, with the new Convention, consideration is also given to the forms of terrorist financing implemented through lawful activities. The fourth concerns the United Nations Convention for the Elimination of Nuclear Terrorism, adopted in New York in April 2005. The cases which constitute a crime linked to acts of terrorism consist in the possession of radioactive materials, in the manufacture of devices and in the damage of installations. It is also established that even the sole threat of committing a crime of this kind constitutes a crime, as well as complicity. Finally, ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention for the Prevention of Terrorism of 2005. Although not yet in force, the Protocol attaches criminal importance to the participation in an association for terrorist purposes; to the submission to training for terrorist purposes; to the completion of foreign travel for terrorist purposes, to the financing of travel abroad of other entities for terrorism purposes and to the organisation and aiding in any other way of such travel. It is also envisaged to strengthen the rapid exchange of information between the parties with regard to persons travelling abroad who are suspected of being terrorists. A brief excursus shows that all the agreements included in this bill to be transposed into our law were signed when the Berlusconi Government was at Palazzo Chigi, proving that the conduct of the Berlusconi Government's foreign policy was in full harmony with all the Western partners and was aimed at combating terrorism and international cooperation in order to combat the phenomenon effectively. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Time's up. I invite you to conclude. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I can't conclude. Since time is up, I would ask that the text of my speech be appended to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Please conclude. Then he will deliver the text to the Offices. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Today, as yesterday, terrorism strikes at the heart of the West and the countries that oppose Islamic extremism, and it is all the more necessary that all governments converge towards a clear and unique strategy to eradicate terrorist cells and groups. Governments are called to manage numerous crises jointly and it is clear that the absence of a common strategy feeds the threats. Mr President, I am sorry that I cannot finish my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u12	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I understand that every colleague can say what he thinks is right in the debate on every measure, but I did feel a little uncomfortable, because I did not understand whether we were in the Senate of the Republic or in the Clave. So, when he tells me "habemus Papam"! We will be able to get out of this House. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups and Senator Crosio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u13	I have no ambition to preside over fora of that kind. I don't think I'm up to it. The general debate is closed. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u14	, f.f. Mr President, I am against this. I would point out to the Assembly that point 2 of point (e) of paragraph 1 of Article 3, the definition of each radioactive dispersion device or any radiation-emission device already includes the concept of depleted uranium, since waste processing of enriched uranium.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u15	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u16	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Di Maggio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u17	Mr President, as you have seen, the Forza Italia Group voted in favour of the first three articles of this bill. With reference, however, to Article 4, a number of amendments were tabled which presupposed a negative assessment of the article proposed to us because of some technical errors. To begin with, a new criminal character is introduced which provides for the punishable use of a number of conducts that are currently already punishable under the terrorist association crime rule. The reasoning that is made by the proposer is that such behavior needs a separate criminality because those who put them in place are not part of the terrorist association while favoring it with their own conduct. In other words, an external competition in terrorist association is being punished. So much so that, from the comparison between the current norm and the one that you want to introduce, the conducts are absolutely identical, just as the penalty is identical. However, the crime of external competition can be configured with reference to all associative crimes: it can be configured with reference to the crime of Mafia association as well as with reference to the crime of terrorist association. At a time when, however, a discipline is foreseen for the so-called external competition in terrorist association and a similar operation is not made with reference to the Mafia association, given the principle of taxableness that governs the criminal system, we are faced with the possibility, in an interpretative way, that everything that is external competition in Mafia association may not find punishable for the absence of a specific norm, which instead is expressly provided for for the crime of terrorist association. And since the interpretation of the rules is inspired by the system, with this innovation substantially created a gap not indifferent with reference to the mafia contrast and, in particular, the punishable conduct of external competition. Is this rule helpful? Absolutely not because - as I said at the beginning - the conducts in question can be calmly punished under the current rules as external competition figures. Is it harmful? It certainly is because of the effects it has on the issue of countering the Mafia. Free you to decide how best you will feel. It is clear, however, that your decision involves a set of responsibilities that you will bear when, in court, these rules will be used to ask - and most probably to obtain - for the non-penalty of all those who put in place objectively favorable behaviors towards the mob association without being part of it and who cannot be punished because of the principle of taxivity, for the absence of a specific rule that goes to punish that particular case of external competition; specific rule that instead exists with reference to the terrorist association. From our point of view - and other amendments have been tabled on the point - there are technical errors in terms of the quantification of the penalty and the absolute equality of the penalty between the new figure and the previous figure of the terrorist association. But if it is a new figure, retrograde to that of terrorist association, just because those who put it in place are not part of the terrorist association, what is the reason why the penalty must be the same? That is - and Senator Caliendo will later be interested in it, commenting on another rule - how can you imagine that even for the possession of an atomic bomb or chemical or biological weapons you can be punished with a sentence of fifteen years, when we all know that its use has such deflagrant effects? There's no point in making commercials. So, this rule serves the purpose of countering terrorism? No, that's not a rule. Does this rule weaken the opposition of the State with regard to other criminal phenomena of high importance? Yes, it certainly is. Is this rule correct from the point of view of the legal system, with regard to sanctioning attitudes and the assessment of the seriousness of the offences? Definitely not. Now, I am well aware that there is a need to adopt this measure immediately without touching in any way what has been established by the House of Deputies. However, I remind all of you that the Senate is still alive and that it is not said that it will die after the October referendum. I would remind all of you that it is not the task of the legislator to flatten himself to the positions of the other branch of Parliament, but to express his legitimate thinking on his own, especially when wrong texts come to us from the other House. And this we wanted to tell you, so that it might be found in the shorthand report, so that tomorrow we do not come to say that the fault is of the judges, since the fault - where there may be fault - is of the legislator. I want to open and immediately close a parenthesis, Mr President. This is a bit of what is happening in recent days, when I see the bitterness and indignation of some of the New Right Center members, in the light of the judgment recently issued by the first section of the Court of Cassation. I remember when, in an explanation of vote, they magnified their intervention on the legislation on civil unions, claiming that they had achieved an excellent result. In that law it was written, however, that it remained foreseen and allowed what is currently provided for by the laws in force, which had already allowed the so-called stepchild adoption. Beyond the hypocrisies, it is best to avoid quoting things that have not been said here, or that have been said and claimed to have been interpreted incorrectly. You are responsible for weakening the fight against mob crime. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u18	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u19	I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u20	I would like to speak quickly on the amendments that have been tabled, starting with Amendment 4.1, on which Senator Palma has just spoken. The new article 270-d of the penal code, which we are proposing, introduces a new case of financing conducts for purposes of terrorism outside the associative hypothesis. I call for the withdrawal of amendment 4.1, otherwise the opinion is against it, and not for a flattening of what was approved by the House of Deputies, but for a correct transposition of the 2005 Warsaw Convention, which is at the heart of the measure under consideration. That Convention, as well as the others that we are going to transpose, provides for a series of interventions which, to a large extent, are already covered by our criminal system. In this case, it is a question of intervening on certain small measures which, with reference to the provisions of the Convention, are not adequately provided for in our legal system. In this case, in fact, the issue of financing outside a structure and the hypothesis of association with purposes of terrorism are a very different context on the criminal code-making level compared to the theme of the mob association. With regard to the other amending proposals, on the amendment I call on Senator Cappelletti to withdraw amendment 4.2 or I am against it. The amendment proposes to equate the sentence from five to ten years for those who deposit or store goods, as well as in our forecast, with those who collect, distribute or make available goods. The bill is a sentence of seven to fifteen years. Now, it is clear that we are talking about two behaviors of different gravity between them. With regard to equivalence with the provisions of the current law, in particular Article 270- bis of the Criminal Code, this is, in the first case, related to those who participate in the association and, in the second case, to those who finance the association. Thus, an equiparation from the point of view of the criminal sanction of these two behaviors would be an abnormal flattening. The opinion is also opposed to Amendment 4.6 by Senators Caliendo and others, who make the opposite proposal, to reduce the penalties for those who deposit or keep money: these are the same penalties that Senator Cappelletti proposes to increase. With regard to the amendments tabled by Senators De Cristofaro and others, Amendments 4,100, 4,101 and 4,102, which seek to include the words "unmistakable" and "unmistakable," I call for a withdrawal or I express an opinion against them, as it is clear that the question of the judge's finding of the inequivalability of the act is implied. The opinion is also opposed to Amendment 4.4 by Senators Caliendo and others, for the same reasons as in Amendment 4.2. Amendment 4.5, first signed by Senator Bertorotta, proposes to replace the word "fundi" with the words "beni" or "money." I call on the senator to withdraw it, otherwise I am against it, because it is a terminological change but not a substantial one. The word funds, in fact, in the Italian language can indicate both the concept of movable and immovable property and the concept of money. Also with regard to amendment 4.7, at the first signature of Senator Caliendo, which calls for the deletion of the paragraph "Art." 270-d.2, which is the new article of the penal code that would be introduced by the measure, relating to the abduction of assets or money subject to seizure, I ask the colleague to withdraw it, otherwise I am against it. Here too, in fact, we are in the presence of one of the specific commitments contracted by our country through the conclusion of the Warsaw Convention of 2005 on money laundering, research, seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of the crime. Amendment 4.8, again at the first signature of Senator Caliendo, calls for the insertion, where specific punishment is imposed, of any person who subtracts, destroys, disperses, suppresses or deteriorates goods or money, subject to seizure in order to prevent the financing of the conducts for the purposes of terrorism, the words "in order to favour the owner," "in order to encourage the owner." I would like to stress that even the relatively slight penalty for this crime, from two to six years old, does not want to refer to the specific situation of those who put in place the abduction and kidnapping to encourage those who commit terrorist conduct, an action that would already be punished with much more serious penalties than this. With regard to Amendments 4.10 and 4.13, by Senators Caliendo and others, on which Senator Palma also referred earlier, with regard to the extent of the sanctions for those who use nuclear devices, I would like to point out that the sanction provided for by that rule for those who create a nuclear device or who possess it is not fifteen years old, but is a penalty not less than fifteen years old. In this way the magistrate is left with the possibility of providing far more serious sanctions in the event that the conduct is indeed serious. That is why the opinion on the last three amendments to the dossier is also against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u21	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u22	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u25	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, although I have listened very carefully and respectfully to the rapporteur's sober reasons for replying to Senator Palma's proposal, I believe that the Senate should support Amendment 4.1 with its vote in favour, and not already for a metallic reason for revisionism of the House's text by means of an amendment by the Senate, which claims to be inherent in bicameralism. That is not what this is about, my colleague, and, if you will allow me, my friend, rapporteur. The reasons outlined by Senator Palma are in some respects more concrete, but also deeper. The rapporteur refers to the logic of international conventions and, in this case, to international conventions which target terrorism. Yes, but the deep reasons why it is up to the House to ratify the international treaties are to be able to see that crimes against the personality of the State are unrelated to the democratic culture, the culture of the liberal state and the rule of law. As far as the war against terrorism is concerned, I would like to remind this House that our country, our legal system, paying a very high price, have fought with its own judiciary, with its own forces of order, with its own politicians against terrorism, without ever trampling on the ideals of the rule of law. So the improper appeal to the ethical state, if we do not mean the continuity of the fascist order when ratifying the international treaties, is a way of trampling on the reasons, the human lives and the costs of loyalty to the constitutional order that we then paid. Hence the need to approve - in my view - the amendment proposed by Mr Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u28	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, once again I am surprised. A magistrate with a great deal of experience in the fight against the mafia and terrorism, who was also Minister of Justice and President of the Commission, has spoken in this House about the extremely serious issues before which I would have expected the representative of the Government or the rapporteur to respond to the objections raised by Mr Palma on the subject. No, the answer is always the same: Europe wants it. So we must transfer what Europe tells us to do to Italy. Senator Palma raised a problem that may be right or wrong, but someone should explain why it's wrong. We build an unbalanced system for typing the external competition with regard to terrorism in the penal code, while we leave to the legal elaboration what concerns the external Mafia competition. I understand that both cases should be typicalized, because only one of them can happen that the anti-mafia and organised anti-criminality armament built falls when specific rules govern - as in this case - the external competition in matters relating to terrorism. Has anyone answered? Did the rapporteur or the government say whether what the former Minister of Justice says has a basis or not? No, there was silence. I wonder if the Senate can discuss matters of such importance and importance without anyone being able to defend a position that is proposed by the rapporteur, who claims to vote against the amendments tabled by Senator Palma, and by the Government, which simply aligns with the rapporteur, without providing a minimum explanation of the risks we are facing. I shall vote for Senator Palma's amendments because he motivated them, because he warned us about possible risks and made a serious technical-juridical speech to which he replied, as usual, with slogans. [[Applause from Senator Davico.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u31	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I would like to say that, in my personal capacity, I will be voting in favour of Amendment 4.1. [[Applause from Senator Comrade]] I believe that this issue is of some importance and cannot be settled simply by approving the text as it comes to our examination. (at 10.28 a.m.) (BUEMI followed). At the same time, there are interpretative and application scenarios for the legal rules that could lead us in the future to recognise that we are making a mistake at the moment. Any distortion or misunderstanding that we can introduce in our legislative action on matters of terrorism and the Mafia would be of great damage to the interests of the country. That is why I personally voted in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u34	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in this parliamentary term we sometimes see explanations in Italian, almost as if we could not read what is written in the draft law. Senator Palma gave precise indications on the first article. On this point, we cannot reply by resuming the prediction of the European Convention. We are reasoning on the basis of the effectiveness of a rule in our criminal system, which is harmonious. Therefore, it cannot be said that the amendments tabled propose a reduction in the sentence and that with others - as we have done - the increase and, indeed, life imprisonment, because the increases or decreases of penalty are part of the criminal system. The explanatory statement to the contrary opinion on Amendment 4.8, with which we propose to add a specific purpose, is very offensive. In the second paragraph of Article 270-d.2 we read: "Whoever subtracts... assets or money, which are seized to prevent the financing of conduct for purposes of terrorism. Conducts with a view to terrorism have justified the seizure. It is not the purpose of the thief who steals goods and money. That is why we have written in that way, as provided for in the general rule on the violation of the things subject to the seizure. The thief must have a specific purpose in order to be sentenced to the sentence from two to six years, and this happens in order to favor the owner. It is the same rule as for all violations of things that have been seized. The opposition's will is to improve the text and make the fight against terrorism more effective in terms of rules that have their specific meaning and that cannot be doubted. In the fight against terrorism, if we were to blame people for certain crimes and then the rule did not stand up for the purpose of condemnation, it would mean no more or less widening what we once, at the time of terrorism, defined the area in which the red fish lives and vegetates. At the same time we identified - you will remember, Mr President - at the Supreme Council of the judiciary, on a proposal from Michele Coiro and myself, a single aggravating factor without changing the criminal system. This time we have tabled amendments which serve solely to make the rule consistent in terms of punishment. And we have also provided for the correction of the sentence, even when you were to reject our first amendment to delete the first Article. If you do not understand or agree with our reasons, which may be wrong, or do not agree with Senator Palma's amendment, you cannot but agree with all the other amendments concerning the balance of penalties. You cannot answer by talking about increases or decreases in penis, because it would mean neither more nor less not doing our job.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u37	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, I would remind all my colleagues that we are faced with an act already approved by the House. Can an act approved by the House be changed? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). What's that got to do with anything? LUMIA (PD). Yes, you can change, and we have done so many times. There is, therefore, nothing scandalous in the proposal that is being proposed to adopt amendments amending an act already approved by the House. Do we call for the approval of an act of the Senate that is in accordance with that of the Chamber, regardless of a merit assessment of what is contained within the decisions of the Chamber itself? We believe that the acts and choices made in the House are legitimate - it goes without saying - but also consistent with the international conventions that we have the duty - I would say the obligation - to transpose into our system, as our Constitution requires. Mr President, what is being done in transposing as many as five international conventions? In the fight against terrorism we already have a completed criminal subsystem, thanks to the work carried out in many and many years within our country, but I must also say thanks to the ability of the Government to be on alert, ready, vigilant and able to anticipate new conducts in globalized terrorism, especially of an Islamic-radical nature. These forms of conduct are novelties that the codistic apparatus, often of the nineteenth century, is not able to predict. Dear colleagues, the new conducts of globalized terrorism are unprecedented and have splashed many countries in Europe, so much so that their codex apparatus has not been able to prevent and prosecute them. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). It's from two years ago. LUMIA (PD). On the other hand, we were faced with two holes, Mr President, which have been filled with the proposals that are being submitted here for our assessment. Paragraph 1 (a) concerns the financing of conducts for the purpose of terrorism, with which it is called upon to strike "Anyone (...) collects, distributes or makes available goods or money, in any way realized, intended to be used in whole or in part for the fulfilment of conducts for the purpose of terrorism (...)" Secondly, it is called upon to strike at any person who deposits or stores the goods or money for the purpose of carrying out acts with a terrorist purpose. These are two qualifying points in Article 4 of the measure. However, we must be careful, ladies and gentlemen, because Senator Palma's amendment proposes to repeal not only these two conducts, but also other cases referred to in Article 4 (1) (b). I am referring to the mandatory surrender in the event of a conviction or plea for one of the crimes for the purposes of terrorism provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure: the confiscation of the things that served or were destined to commit the crime and the things that constitute its price, product or profit is always arranged. This is another important course to be struck, since the new capacity of terrorism to accumulate money is another qualifying element. Article 4 of the measure includes among the crimes against the internal personality of the State the new criminal case of acts of nuclear terrorism. The provision referred to in paragraph 1 (c), punishes with imprisonment from six to twelve years any person, with the purpose of terrorism, procures to himself or to other radio-active matter, creates a nuclear device or otherwise comes into possession. These are the contents of Article 4. With reference to the first two conducts (i.e. hitting those who collect or make available money for terrorism purposes, outside of their membership of the terrorist association, which is the characteristic of globalized terrorism), Senator Palma is concerned that they may interfere with the rules on the fight against the mafia as regards the crime of internal competition. I want to reassure my colleagues, and I do not know whether Mr Buemi agrees with the external competition, but I do not think so. Dear colleagues, Senator Palma's concern is to preserve the possibility of striking the external competition on a case-by-case basis. Since I share the concern raised by Senator Palma, I am confident that, as we have structured terrorist offences in the criminal subsystem, that concern does not exist. In fact, the criminal subsystem of the crime against terrorism has built a harmonic complexity that allows you to easily intervene and hit all types of crime and avoid that type of indirect interpretation such as to go to question, by way of case law, the crime of external competition in Mafia association, which perhaps many who will vote on the amendment of Senator Palma do not share not only in the idea, but also in the use of interpretative and jurisprudential. Colleagues, since I would not like overlaps and confusions to be created, we should stick to the text. We are talking about the crimes of terrorism, it is a complete subsystem, we are implementing conventions and we are dealing with the globalized, new and new pipelines that our code must provide for, like all other countries involved in this fight. Our vote is not simply dictated by an inertia and by the will to ratify passively and blindly what the House of Deputies has decided, but - as the rapporteur has said well - it is a conscious way to make our country take another step forward, in the awareness of being at the lead; it anticipates and is asking other countries to make many others forward to be all more effective in the fight against terrorism. [[Applause from Senator Sangalli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u40	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Although I respect Mr Gasparri, I am pleased that he is here, Mr Grasso, because the House will shortly be voting on an amendment which - in our opinion, but not only - can create not indifferent problems. Mr President, the subject is very simple and I should like a minute to make a brief summary of the matter. The conduct provided for in the new Article 270-e.1 is the same as in the 270-d: terrorist association. The difference between the two rules, the old one and the one that you want to introduce, is that the person who sets up the conducts referred to in the norm that you want to introduce is not part of the terrorist association. In the light of a consolidated case law on external competition in Mafia association, the external competition in terrorist association is being regulated. You, Mr President (like me and many others), know perfectly well that the external competition in an associative crime can be configured with reference to the mob association, but also with reference to all other associative crimes. The conducts, therefore, which are intended to be introduced with a new criminality - with the same identical sanction as the terrorist association - are the same as the terrorist association. I can correctly imagine that, in interpreting, when the defendant will be the financier not of terrorism, but of the Mafia association (of which he is not a member), the possible crime of external competition in Mafia association may be attacked on the interpretative-systematic level, because in the field of the Mafia association there is a specific criminal figure that is instead expected for the terrorist association. That is the point I wanted to highlight. He goes on to ask: is this rule helpful? It is not, because such conducts are already punished with the same exact penalty according to the current rule. Is it harmful or potentially harmful? Certainly, as far as I've been allowed to say and which you, Mr President, understand very well in the matter of the Mafia association. I have listened to the rapporteur's reply and I do not want to argue, but one will allow me to do so by Senator Lumia, who was probably inattentive: our penal code, to tell the truth, does not go back to the nineteenth century, but to a slightly later period and, as far as terrorist offences are concerned, Article 270-d dates back to 2005 and, therefore, we do not have to go far behind. Mr President, the amendments basically say that we do not agree for the reasons we have expressed. Do you want to introduce this crime? Very well, but you cannot predict the same penalty as the terrorist association, otherwise you violate the principle of reasonableness. Have you imagined other figures for a possession of seized property in order to favor the owner, repeating the norm already present in the code? Senator Lo Giudice says it's peaceful because, if it has the purpose of favoring the owner, another crime is committed. But what crime is committed, Senator Lo Giudice? The one referred to in Article 270-d or what you want to introduce? Since our criminal system has the principle of taxableness, as you did in the case of 270-e.1, was it not appropriate to add "unless the offence referred to in Articles 200 or 270 (and so on) is this penalty? As you can see, in order to favor the owner, it certainly serves. Mr President, I should like to add one more thing. I read in letter b) that the use - the use, Senator Lo Giudice - of nuclear material, that is the launch of an atomic bomb, is punished with a penalty not inferior to the fifteen years, and the Senator Lo Giudice replies that we have done it to favor the work of the judge. But a sentence of no less than fifteen years means twenty-four years at most. If you do not punish with life imprisonment who uses an atomic bomb, who do you want to punish with life imprisonment? [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups and Senators Bignami, Formigoni, Fucksia, Giovanardi and Pepe]] Mr President, to be clear, this is the meaning of the speech that I have allowed myself to make - I repeat - given your presence in this House, of which - I repeat - I am pleased. We have not tabled any obstructive amendments to Article 4. We imagined that we would contribute to the work of the legislator by placing a number of problems that cannot be overcome in politics. You have to answer us in technical terms, and so far there have been no technical answers. Mr President, do you agree with me - I am not saying that it is certain, but that it is possible, perhaps extremely probable - that what I say can be interpreted? Do you agree with me that the sanctioning system for terrorist offences cannot be detached from the sanctioning system as a whole? Do you want to move forward with this provision? Go on. Don't you want to displease the House and the House Mantras? Don't do it. However - if you will allow me - we cannot have a debate on terrorism and mafia crime by speaking individually for Groups each of their own facts and without listening to anyone. Mr President, I would be grateful if you would advise me on the provision of Article 4 and all the amendments relating to that Article, so that I do not say technically - I no longer have any faith in this - but at least politically, a majority reasoning. Let us consider whether we should go ahead with these mistakes or not rather, only in Article 4, do some small lifting - or drafting - operations to avoid serious errors. It has absolutely nothing to do with what Mr Lumia says about the fact that we have to adapt the sub-system. Senator Lumia, the financing of a terrorist association by those who are not members of the terrorist association is already punished with the same penalty as you indicated under the current rule. There is no need for these operations, which only create confusion and constitute mere and - allow me - quite squalid commercials. I would therefore ask that Article 4 and all the amendments relating to it be put aside. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), CoR and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u43	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, the issues presented by Senator Palma find me in disagreement in the first part, and I agree in the second part. I say this because Senator Palma's first question concerns the possible typing of the crime of external competition in terrorist association. Apparently, Senator Palma is obviously not interested in making a modest contribution. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Modesto doesn't. FALANGA (AL-A (MpA)). I see you leave the Chamber: thank you, Senator Palma. I was saying that the concern of my colleague is to see the crime of external competition in a terrorist association, where in our system there is already a typical figure of the crime of external competition in a mafia association. For the truth, being always a supporter of the certainty of the law, also from the point of view of the qualification of the delittuous conducts, I would have wished that in our country there had been a rule that typicalizes, precisely, the crime of external competition in Mafia association, in consideration of the fact that it is of jurisprudential derivation and sometimes lends itself to excessive arbitrari on the part of those who judge the conducts. It is not true that typing today the crime of external competition in terrorism frustrates or somehow disassembles our jurisprudential system of external competition in camorristic association; indeed, fortifies it, because if for a criminal activity there is the typical prediction of the external contest, well can be of comfort to that jurisprudential orientation that has consolidated in our country. Why do I agree with Senator Palma? Because, from the point of view of the reasonableness and balance of sanctions for the individual criminal figures, there can be no other than a balanced commeasurement. So it is not imaginable - Senator Lumia is no longer there, he is gone, but the rapporteur, Senator Lo Giudice, is present - that there is a forecast of identical penalty for both the crime of terrorism and the crime of external competition. This contrasts with the current Italian jurisprudence in the matter of external competition in Camorristic association, so much so that the penalties there are differentiated. When the penalties are excessive and unbalanced, we know that we also violate a clear principle of constitutional rank. For these reasons, and above all for the second part of the reasons which Senator Palma has set out, Mr President, in order to allow greater reflection not on the first question, but rather on the quantification of the penalties for the various figures that are being introduced, I call on the rapporteur and the Government to reflect on this point and, if necessary, I agree with the request for provision. Otherwise, the amendments by Senators Caliendo and Palma, which balance the penalties, will be voted in favour of by our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u46	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I too have listened carefully to what Senator Palma and the other colleagues who support the opportunity, at least, to put aside Article 4, with reference to the remarks made by Senator Palma, concerning the futility and even the harmfulness that the rule could introduce into our legal system, as regards the question of Article 416- bis and the current legal situation regarding the contestation of the external competition. Personally, I was not convinced by Senator Palma's remarks. I try to illustrate my position, very modestly. Bearing in mind that the rule that would be introduced punishes the financing, the reference is obviously not to Article 270-a, i.e. to the association, but to the conducts for the purposes of terrorism, a diction that concerns several articles of the penal code. If, for example, we observe Article 270-c, relating to enlistment, or Article 270-d, relating to training, we note that in the text of the rules it is specifically written outside of the cases referred to in Article 270-a, which provides for the offence of association. Therefore, with the specific legislation already in place, these are conducts that are outside the associative scope and therefore also the competition. It seems to me that the punishment of the mere financing, for example for those who carry out training or enlistment activities, with the specification that the financing concerns conducts for purposes of terrorism, cannot create interpretative dangers or even analog extension in Bonam partem for those who are accused in crimes of external competition in Mafia association. There is in fact a specific reference to the conducts with purposes of terrorism; therefore there is a further specification regarding the various hypotheses of crime already provided in our legal system, which are placed outside the associative hypothesis, but also of competition. On the other hand, it seems to me more appropriate to comment on the penalty in relation to the subsequent amendments on nuclear terrorism. To make provision that imprisonment should not be less than 15 years old, in view of the possibility of punishing in a much more severe way, with a different kind of sentence such as life imprisonment, who uses radioactive matter or a nuclear device seems to me frankly a fair observation, all the more so if we bear in mind what we voted last year on environmental rights, when, although with very severe penalties, we punished with a maximum of perhaps fifteen years those who were responsible for environmental disaster. In fact, it is difficult to imagine that those who should be able to use a nuclear device can be punished simply with a penalty of no less than fifteen years. Therefore, coming to the explanation of vote, on the amendments signed by Senator Caliendo proposing a life sentence we will vote in favour, but we cannot say the same as the opportunity to put aside or vote in favour of amendment 4.1, because in our very modest opinion we should not create conditions of interpretative difficulty that could even harm the hypothesis of contesting external competition in Mafia association. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the proposed provision of Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u47	Mr President, I think it would be useful to proceed with the vote on the amendments and then on Article 4. If you will allow me, I would just like to make two comments on two of the issues raised in the explanations of vote. The first concerns again the issue of the interference of the rule that we will go to approve with the situation inherent in the external competition in Mafia association. In this case, it is not a question of punishing an external competition, but of intervening on the dimension of the terrorist phenomenon that, as we know, no longer takes on the role of a structured activity within an association, but often presents completely new and elusive forms with actions that, committed for purposes of terrorism, show weak links with an associative structure. That is what we are talking about, and that is why there is the need to intervene in order to be able to strike those who actually implement a behavior aimed at terrorism, but not through a identifiable and verifiable membership structured to an association. With regard to the issue of nuclear devices, I understand that the hypothesis of a person who releases an atomic bomb and gets caught five years can be effective, but we are obviously not talking about this, as Senator Cappelletti pointed out earlier. The rule in question punishes a very wide range of behaviors, which go (we are talking about a minimum edittal penalty of fifteen years, therefore very high) from the very serious activity of those who handle, obtain, obtain radioactive matter, to those who damage a nuclear plant with the risk of producing emissions of radioactive material. We are therefore not talking about the use of a nuclear device in the plastic dimensions represented earlier, but about a range of behaviors that can come where other offences are involved, even if a nuclear bomb is used. This also concerns those behaviours which can be considered relatively - as I stress four times - less serious and which concern the use, transmission, disposal and therefore the risk of radioactive material emissions in the event of such instruments being used. I would point out, however, that we are not talking about a sentence of fifteen years, but about a sentence of not less than fifteen years and that it can therefore be greatly increased in the event that the behaviour acquires higher degrees of gravity. Therefore, in relation to the request for provision, Mr President, I propose that we continue with the votes on Article 4 and the amendments to it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u48	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u49	I therefore call on Senator Caliendo and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.1. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u52	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to add my signature to Senator Cappelletti's amendment 4.2. Furthermore, in reply to some of what the rapporteur has said, I would ask you to re-evaluate your opinion because, as is clearly stated in the text of the amendment, it is not a question of increases in penalty but of a literal specification of the conducts that are being punished. In fact, with regard to Article 270-d.1, we believe that the aforementioned and general conduct of making available goods can be supplemented by the words "deposit," "conserve," "intermediate" or make available goods, that is to say, all the conduct relating to the financing of activities with the purpose of terrorism, which we rightly consider punishable, indicated by the terms that may best specify them. That is why I would ask the rapporteur, who referred to an increase in the penalty that is not really there, to consider the possibility of reconsidering his unfavourable opinion on this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lo Giudice, would you like to reconsider your opinion on Amendment 4.2?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u53	Mr President, I confirm my opposition and would like to explain why. It is true that formally amendment 4.2 simply asks to add, before the words "puts goods" at disposal, the words "deposit," "contains," "intermediate" but the point is that the last paragraph of Article 4 punishes, precisely, anyone who deposits or stores goods and does so with a penalty from five to ten years; therefore, it is evident that, moving or inserting the words "deposit," "contains," "intermediate" before the words "intermediate" makes available goods, behavior punished with a penalty of seven to fifteen years, also the conducts punished by the last paragraph with a sentence of five to ten years would be sanctioned with the penalty provided for by the preceding paragraph. This is why what might seem or could be in the intentions of the proposers a simple specification, in fact, has the effect of an increase in punishment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u54	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senators Cappelletti and Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u57	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, our vote on Amendment No 4,100 will, of course, be in favour. This amendment has its meaning in trying to define as far as possible the term "destined" for assets collected and then destined, or markets, for terrorist activities. The problem lies in the fact that many associations or groups of people raise funds for people damaged by war in the Middle Eastern theatres. With these sums they help people who are absolutely abandoned by the international community. It is therefore impossible not to formulate in terms that are very clear this rule, as I think it is done, so much so that when it speaks of "destined" it is not clear if the destination is a priori, at the time when this money is collected, or if it is the final one. This would block a stream of aid that is very small, but necessary, since it is the only aid that comes, for example, to some Syrian populations, which are currently being bombed by Russia. The expression "unmistakably" therefore aims to reduce the risk that those who carry out this type of humanitarian operations may be accused and accused of a crime because of the attempt to carry out a humanitarian activity and absolutely commendable. The risk associated with this rule is that these flows will be further reduced or even eliminated because of fear of a crime.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u60	THE COURT, Rapporteur. I would like to make a very brief comment, Mr President, because my colleague Senator Campanella's remarks and the proposals contained not only in the amendment we are debating but in the three first-signed amendments by Senator De Cristofaro, bearing this specification, represent a fear in itself, but which I do not think can actually be considered to be attributable to a risk arising from the wording under consideration. It is clear that we are talking about the financing of conduct with a view to terrorism and therefore we take for granted the fact that there is a deliberate and unequivocal knowledge of the purpose for which that money will be used. I share the cultural concern, but looking at the text of the rule, I believe that this concern is already resolved by the text that we are proposing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u61	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4101, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u64	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would ask that I sign Amendment No 4.5, first signed by Senator Bertorotta. With regard to what the rapporteur said in his opinion, I should like to point out that the proposal to replace the word "funds" with the words "goods" or "money" in paragraph 1 (a) of Article 4 refers to the last line of the first paragraph, referred to in Article 270-d. The rule contained at the end of this paragraph gives the following specification: "Irrespective of the actual use of the funds for the commission of the above-mentioned pipelines." In the same paragraph, a few lines earlier, however, reference is made to "goods" or "money" and, therefore, if the rule remains unchanged, it may seem that the specification concerned by the amendment, that is, the words "without regard to actual use" concern only the actual use of the money. I repeat, only a few lines before reference is made to both goods and money; therefore, for a matter of rationality and drafting, I would ask the rapporteur to consider the possibility of supplementing the rule with the amendment that we have proposed, in order to make it more coherent.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u67	THE COURT, Rapporteur. Mr President, as I said earlier, I have also wondered from the point of view of the actual meaning in the Italian language of the terms used. I found the full confirmation (which was superfluous, probably, because these are terms that we all know and use daily) of the fact that the word "funds" contains in itself the reference both to movable property and to immovable property and also to capital and money. In this case, therefore, the use of the word "funds" within the same article that uses, in other parts, the words "goods" or "money" must be understood as the use of a term definitely and completely synonymous with the expression used a few lines before in the text. That is why I have asked Senator Bertorotta to withdraw the amendment because, precisely, it is not essential in relation to the real meaning of the words used.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u68	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4102, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u71	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I wanted to repeat to Senator Lo Giudice that, when it is written: 'pena not inferior to fifteen years', according to our code the penalty goes from fifteen to twenty-four years, and not from fifteen to infinity. I repeat to the House that the law that you are about to vote says that anyone who, as an act of terrorism, is part of a terrorist association, creates and therefore holds a nuclear device, is punished with the sentence of six to twelve years. Honestly, doesn't it seem crazy to punish a terrorist in possession of a nuclear device with a sentence of six to twelve years? The detention of a particularly deadly war weapon has a slightly lower penalty than this. Since the sanctioning system is based on criteria of reasonableness, do you consider it reasonable that the terrorist who has a nuclear device and who, evidently, owns it not as a supermobile but because in his head evidently imagines a future use of it, must be punished with a sentence of six to twelve years? Just as later - so let's make Senator Lo Giudice happy - the same terrorist, which that nuclear device uses, is punished with a penalty of no less than fifteen years. All right, we agree. But if a terrorist holds a nuclear device, instead of the sentence of six to twelve years, we imagine a sentence of no less than fifteen years. [[Applause from Senator Marin.]] And if the terrorist uses that nuclear device, instead of imagining a sentence of no less than fifteen years, let's imagine the sentence of life imprisonment. [[Applause from Senator Marin.]] Why do you excuse me, but can the use of a nuclear device result in less devastating effects than murder? And if, speaking of nuclear devices, this seems impossible to you, then imagine all chemical and biological weapons that can be safely, for terrorist purposes, held and used. So, do you think these pains are okay? Vote for them; but I remind all of you that the penalty also has a deterrent effect, and if the possession of a nuclear device provides at least the sentence of six years, because of the various mechanisms of alleviation of the penalty that are within our code, do not come then to complain and I invite you not to make controversy against the judges if by hypothesis, against the possession of a nuclear device, you will find yourself faced with a sentence perhaps of four years and six months. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u74	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would simply like to remind this Senate that the majority and the Government have decided to punish for eighteen years the mother of the family who has a road accident in case she goes on a road with fog or inadvertently passes with red. I repeat, 18 years in prison. Maybe calling the government to a certain balance in punishment wouldn't be bad. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u77	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to endorse this amendment with the approval of the authors. By declaring that we fully share the considerations of Senator Palma, it seems strange to me that someone may not share such simple and elementary reasonings. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, do you allow your colleague to sign the amendment? PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). With great pleasure, also because I use it as a thank you for the modest contribution provided to me before.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u79	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u80	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I disagree with my Group's position, and I do not want to vote because I think it is ridiculous that the rapporteur and the members of the Commission should not stop at this loss of the right that is taking place. We are ridiculing the Senate and offering arguments for its abolition, because treating less traffic accidents the use of nuclear device is truly incredible. Mr President, I appeal to you because, having been President of the Anti-Mafia Prosecutor, who has now also become an anti-terrorist prosecutor (then did not have these powers), you should check the mental health of those who approve such a rule. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and LN-Aut Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u81	Mental health checks are the responsibility of other institutions, not the national anti-mafia and anti-terrorism prosecutor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u84	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would ask you to accept this amendment. I would also like to remind this House of the images of the thirty years of Chernobyl. In fact, nuclear power does not only cause momentary damage, but it does cause damage and effects at considerable distances and not only immediate, but also future, to all those who live or would like to live in those places.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u87	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to point out something that I think is losing sight of at the moment. The terrorist who in recent years is mainly driven by religious motives, in most cases is a suicide terrorist kamikaze. This kind of reflections, like those of President Palma, have a consistency in a thought, in a Western way of reasoning, the usual one for us. In the case of terrorists willing to generate nuclear deflagration and quietly lose their lives these reasonings lose their consistency and their ability to deter. The problem cannot be solved by an increase in the sentence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u90	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I am not a fan of pain increases, but it must also be able to set a scenario. On a purely political level, imagining that there is a penalty that convinces and attracts those in a position to hold a nuclear weapon is really unreasonable. Those who hold a nuclear weapon, looking at this order, are convinced to hold it in our country. Of course, those who obtain a nuclear weapon know that they have an entirely unreasonable advantage in coming to our country to hold it and guard it. Above all, I would like to invite the Group of the Democratic Party, which is the majority in this House, to reflect on what we are doing. It is as if we were saying: invest in nuclear weapons in Italy and hold them in Italy because, doing so, you avoid the risk of penalties that can nail you. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] This is crazy. If these were the investments the government wanted to attract in our country, think again! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur intend to maintain the positions already adopted?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u91	Mr President, we are always returning to the same subject, but I would like to reiterate this central point. We are punishing a new case, which we find in the new Article 280-b of the Criminal Code, relating to specific behaviors such as the detention, disposal and use of nuclear devices which, in the case of acts that assume different profiles of gravity and different actual consequences, add to other offences. No one is crazy enough to think that those who produce a massacre through the use of a nuclear device can be punished for up to twenty-four years. It is obvious that this is not the case. We are thinking of a scenario different from that actually produced by this rule, which intervenes, instead, on specific behaviors punishing them specifically for what they are. I am referring to the disposal, possession and damage of a nuclear device which creates the risk of radioactive material being emitted. We are talking about behaviors that, in combination with others, can constitute even more serious crimes, but that can instead remain confined in the letter of this article. That is why we start from very high minimum penalties such as detention not less than fifteen years old. A new crime is expected which, in the presence of different effects, will also be configured in a different way.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u94	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have a degree in economics and trade, so I am not in court, but frankly I think the rapporteur says things that I find difficult to understand for a simple reason: colleagues legally prepared in this House - I do not mention names, so as not to waste time - have said things diametrically opposed. So either the rapporteur believes that they lie as big as a house or there is obviously a misunderstanding. I shall vote in favour of the amendments, but I am very uncomfortable, and I believe many of my colleagues, because frankly we need to know what we are doing on this matter. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u97	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, what emerges and dismays is the political fact: the refusal of this majority to listen to any advice or suggestion and to accept any amendment. This has been the case in recent years. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]] And it is dramatic that this also happens on a subject like this, because nothing would cost to understand what has been said in the various speeches by Nitto Palma, Giacomo Caliendo and other colleagues. But nothing: the most total silence! Let me pass it, also with respect to other themes (I have many friends of the PD): silence, in this case also the ignorance to say no, it is not possible, on a topic that does not affect anything politically. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] This is where you keep saying no, it's not possible. It is a question of democracy, of dialogue. We do not complain about what happens outside. This is the example of this: not wanting to talk about anything. I think one thing and that's it, either you take this or you go home. Do we realize that? That sounds like an exaggeration, but these behaviors lead to saying, what are we doing here? [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Pepe]] Actually, I'd like to say the damn word Aventine. It's no use talking with serenity, talking and confronting each other. No, that's it, and if that's not the case, other people are gonna think about it outside of here. That's not possible. There is general information which gives this House a completely incorrect representation. It really hurts, and that's what emerges. It would take a little courage from everyone, a little awareness of their own self, their own ideas and their own dignity. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u98	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Live and sustained applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S, AL-A, GAL, LN-Aut, CoR and Mixed Groups. Congratulations to Senator Palma.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u101	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, criminal law, even with international repercussions, cannot be in the hands of such incompetent rapporteurs. I propose the provision of this measure, because with the right and the fight against terrorism we do not joke and do not play. Let us suspend the examination of this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u102	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.13 [[Senator Crosio's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u105	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it is clear that in the light of the adoption of amendment 4.10, the current text can no longer be maintained. I would remind you that the Forza Italia Group has tabled two amendments to Senator Caliendo's first signature: the first one provides for life imprisonment, while the second one is not less than twenty years imprisonment. Mr President, in the light of the adoption of amendment 4.10, it would perhaps be necessary to have a brief moment of reflection in order to allow the rapporteur to amend the opinion on one of the two amendments (it is in fact two amendments of different content) or, if necessary, to table a new amendment. Otherwise - and I am going to make it quite specific, Mr President - it would be risky, because of the different sensitivities present in this House, that neither of the two amendments will be adopted (as there are those who prefer the sentence of life imprisonment and those who prefer imprisonment not less than twenty years old), thus leaving in the text a serious technical error, i.e. the provision of a lower sentence than the one just approved for a more serious event. My advice, although I am part of the opposition and not of the majority, is a break from the work of at least a quarter of an hour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u108	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I think it is reasonable to have access to the request made by Senator Palma, but not before I have made some brief political considerations. With the first, I intend to reject clearly the sentences made earlier by Senator Gasparri on our rapporteur. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Senator Lo Giudice explained with completeness, accuracy and intellectual and political honesty the content of the amendment. We are faced with a very obvious political manoeuvre, which has nothing to do with the content of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] Let me make one point. This is not the first time that, with regard to measures examined in the Justice Commission, questions which have not been dealt with or dealt with marginally in the Commission are raised in this House. [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] The question is in principle, with the illustration of systemic effects. The questions are raised in this House, i.e. at the [[. (Comments from FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups)]] So what are the Commissions doing here? [[Applause from the PD Group]] GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Bravo! Come to the Commission and ask Lumia! ZANDA (PD). I repeat, that we are able to do it if then certain issues need to be raised... [[Comments from FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups (GS, PpI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)]] Please let me finish the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u109	Colleagues, allow President Zanda to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u110	ZANDA (PD). Like all of you, I too - you will allow me - have the right to speak in this House when the President gives me the floor and not to be interrupted when I speak. Senator Palma has just explicitly explained the meaning of this question. In fact, after having held the Assembly packed for an hour on the discussion of an amendment, after having obtained the result, it rose and said: Did you see that? Now we have to discuss the measure again, now it doesn't make any sense. Clearly, therefore, by Senator Palma's explicit statement, this is a political manoeuvre and as such we must denounce it. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). We want a good measure, not an idiot measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, you're a commissioner. Senator Malan, Senator Palma, finish the surgery. Everyone has the right to speak. ZANDA (PD). And I'm sorry... We have a leader in the Commission. [[Call the president back.]] ZANDA (PD). If I am not mistaken, Senator Malan also has responsibility for the holding of this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's already been highlighted, Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). You exercise these responsibilities not only to the House, but also to yourself: it seems to me that this is part of your duties. Mr President, I would ask you, please, to have access to Senator Palma's request and, for a reasonably short time, to grant immediate suspension of the work of this House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u113	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank President Zanda for having accepted my request, although I cannot objectively understand what request he has made, whether the real one (let us stop for fifteen minutes to reason on these two amendments and understand which of the two must have the rapporteur's favourable opinion, that is, on a possible further amendment by the rapporteur in this matter) or the one, which is certainly not true and which is part of Senator Zanda's fantasy, namely that I would have asked for the whole measure to be discussed in full. One more thing, Mr. President. I believe that in this House, within the limits allowed by politics and by the anomalies of politics, we have a duty to tell the truth to the full. Senator Zanda, when you ask and ask us what the Commissions are doing and do after the intervention of Senator Tarquinio, who on the political level has been enlightening, I, Senator Zanda, ask you: but if the Commissions, who are presided over by you and have the same identical majority by the Assembly, do not work, who is the fault? The opposition or the majority? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Bignami and Mangili.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u116	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would just like to say that I find Senator Zanda's remarks on the Justice Commission deeply unfair. We have also raised in this House a difficulty in which we have been in for a long time, for several months, generated by the impossibility of having the space and the time to be able to discuss properly in depth the measures that are certainly complex. It is also true what Senator Palma says: the Justice Commission, just like the Senate, is a Commission in which the weight of the majority is decisive for the progress of the work itself. We have also been deprived of measures which would have been the responsibility of the Justice Commission, meeting with others. We have raised a conflict of attribution and we have tried to prevent this happening in this House and that the debate on the issues proper to the Justice Commission should become the subject of a difficult choral debate. In fact, we have not been heard, despite the common sense of these demands; that a responsibility which belongs exclusively to the majority of the Commission is now being dropped on the Commission seems truly unfair to those who, however, intend to work seriously.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u119	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I do not want to be pedantic, but I would like to say that what happened this morning is a case of study to be brought to the attention of our students. That is how a Parliament works; that is how it is written in the Regulations. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PpI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), AP (NCD-UDC), LN-Aut and Misto]] The Commission is examining a matter and then the House, since we are not yet in the Chamber of Charms and Corporations, is debating and bringing further meanings and arguments to what has happened in the Commission. This seems to me to have happened today. Mr Tarquinio's speech was in some way an appeal to the House to take back its powers. During this parliamentary term we have seen closed committees that have not discussed the measures; we have seen agreements made outside the Assembly and the Commissions, sometimes compromised, even from an institutional point of view, which have been led by group leaders rather than by the Presidents and Vice Presidents of the Senate. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)]] Once this House has worked and done its duty, we must also be told that it is a detour or a bully. A Parliament works exactly as we saw this morning, and on this I believe that lessons can be spared and above all can be spared in the country. At last today we have set an example of dignity. [[Applause from the groups (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), LN-Aut and Misto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u122	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, all my colleagues will have noticed that the votes in favour of this amendment by my Group have led to the result. That must be said, but I would not like to see political interpretations given to this vote. I share what Senator Quagliariello said. It is good to know that there are no MPs and senators in this House who follow regardless, but there are senators who support the Government when they share the measures, but who - alas - in their absolute freedom of mandate, express their disagreement when they are opposed. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] This morning's vote therefore has no political significance. It simply means that the AL-A Senator Group did not agree with the rapporteur and the majority on that particular subject. That's all.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u125	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all I would like to make a point and then to ask a question. The proposal to suspend our work was put forward by President Gasparri. I do not understand why, when Senator Gasparri does so, we proceed as if nothing has happened, whereas when the President of the PD makes the same proposal, everyone leaves the Chamber because the sitting is practically suspended. I would like to join Mr Zanda's remarks with regard to the unhappy judgments that have been made against the rapporteurs, who certainly do not deserve them. On the other hand, if the will and thought of the common senators are already crushed, the poor rapporteurs depend exclusively on the will of the Government and its majority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] I do not agree with Zanda about the role of the Commissions: the Commissions have a preparatory role, but the transition to the Assembly is the final and final one. This applies to all the Commissions except for the Justice Commission, where I would have the entry of magistrates and lawyers (we would certainly arrive in this House with something ready!). However, allow me to make a more general political assessment, ladies and gentlemen. Sunday there were the ballots, which went in a certain way. Tomorrow is the Democratic Party's leadership. This is the first time that the government, with a clear vote, has gone under, because all the times opinions had changed and returned to the Assembly. Today for the first time, with the obvious vote, majority and government go under. So, of course, today we have seen what will happen in the future: when the boat sinks, the rats run away. The votes against the amendment were the Orthodox ones, that is the votes of the PD; the votes of the "wings" and the "wings" are falling apart, because the ship sinks. Happy birthday to the Renzi Government and thus its majority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u126	I suspend the sitting until 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended at 11.46 p.m. and resumed at 12.10 p.m.) The session is resumed. I would therefore ask the rapporteur whether the pause has led to a number of determinations, which I would like to explain if necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u127	Mr President, the adoption of amendment 4.10 implies the need to rebalance the penalties for the conduct provided for in the first and second paragraphs of Article 280-b. I therefore call on the signatories to withdraw amendment 4.13, while expressing their support for amendment 4.12. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u128	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u129	Do the authors of amendment 4.12 accept the rapporteur's call for withdrawal?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u130	Mr President, I take note of the favourable opinion on amendment 4.12, which provides for a sentence of not less than twenty years, but I think it would be unfair in comparison with this House if I withdraw the amendment which provides for life imprisonment. At this point, it is the House that has to decide: I will vote in favour of the amendment for which the favourable opinion has been announced, but I believe that this House should have the opportunity to assess what is the penalty consistent with what we have already approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u131	Mr President, I thought I was extremely clear in my speech when I asked for a moment of reflection: I spoke of a moment of reflection so that the rapporteur could, if necessary, change his opinion on the two amendments, namely to table a new one. This in the discussion of a measure in which the opposition was essentially prevented from making its contribution. Dear Senator Zanda, if I have kept Parliament packed for one hour - I use your words - I have done well, if it is true that our amendment has been approved by this House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I simply want to say that the time has come for the majority, outside of "inciuci" and agreements on the sidelines with the opposition, to take responsibility, in such a sensitive matter, for expressing their thoughts through an opinion: an opinion in favour of this amendment; an opinion contrary to this other amendment. And then the Assembly votes as a vote. So, of course, Mr President, I have no intention of withdrawing the two amendments for the same reasoning as Senator Caliendo. As an old frequenter (ahimè, too old) of these parliamentary classrooms, if I may, I would like to give a tip to the majority: it must not make agreements with us but with the AL-A Group, if it is true that until the AL-A Group voted with the Government the amendments were rejected and as soon as the AL-A Group voted in a dissonant manner by the Government and by the majority the amendment was approved. Which, of course, let us be frank, poses a very serious political problem: you, without the AL-A Group, are not a majority in the Senate. And it's useless for Senator Zanda to point out that this is not the case, because it's the numbers that testify to it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] It is then time to get out of the misunderstanding. Or let them enter the government (I open and close a parenthesis: sign it for a government office my friend, Senator Falanga) or finish it with hypocrisy and avoid saying that the votes of AL-A are added. AL-A's vows are crucial to you! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u134	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am one of those who voted in favour of Amendment 4.10 and I have taken the floor to announce that I disagree with some of the approaches. I must tell Mr Palma that this is absolutely not the case. I would like to point out that I am a loyal supporter of the Government and of this majority, but I maintain, as a main reference, my autonomy of judgment with regard to the substance of the rules proposed in this House. I believe that other colleagues from the majority, from my group and from other groups, not excluding the relative majority group, have done so on the point of agreeing with amendment 4.10. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak again on Amendments 4.13 and 4.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u135	Mr President, we have used this short suspension in a fruitful way, even proposing a rewording to the first signatory of the two amendments and then agreeing that we could have converged on amendment 4.12, through the previous withdrawal of amendment 4.13, on the basis of a substantive consideration. In fact, on the one hand, the approval of amendment 4.10 makes it necessary to pro rata Article 4 of the penalties provided for in the second paragraph of point (c) of point 1, on the other hand, it must be borne in mind that, even if the conduct provided for in the second paragraph may fall within the scope of the conduct which requires very high penalties, it is necessary to establish the fixed sentence of life imprisonment for anyone, in a general and general manner, who uses a nuclear device with the danger of releasing radioactive matter (so, without the fact being actually committed), frankly seems excessive. That's about the merit. It is also clear that there is a political dimension here that is not for the rapporteur to stress. I am sticking to what I thought was a fruitful agreement reached during this short suspension and I therefore maintain the call for withdrawal or the contrary opinion on Amendment 4.13 which proposes the replacement of imprisonment not less than fifteen years with the dry sentence of life imprisonment. The opinion is in favour of amendment 4.12, which replaces the words "not less than 15 years" with the words "not less than 20 years."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u136	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u139	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, we are asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Di Maggio, I remind you that the roll-call vote was requested by simultaneous ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u142	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I am speaking for two reasons. It seems to me that on this ground, that of the penalties and the configuration of crimes of an absolute heaviness, cannot be determined an area of discussion that transcends the merit and confines in the political events and of holding the majority to the Government. Because this is a sensitive issue, in a system like ours, in a well-established behaviour of this Parliament that deals with this kind of issues mainly through the increase in penalties, in a situation that concerns this country that sees a certain condition of the prison system and the justice system, deprived of the means necessary to fully fulfil its task. I think that making a political operation on these issues is not fair and not even bearable. We will abstain on both amendments, because we want to refrain from dealing with these problems. I did not appreciate, although the arguments that have been represented have an absolute dignity, the fact that this instrument has been used to pose political issues. It is wrong, because the issue concerns people's lives and the security of the state, and in the field of justice we cannot and must not open up political questions concerning the livability of the internal majority relations between political forces. For this reason, and only for this reason, we shall abstain from voting on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u145	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make a comment. I was pleased with the explanations given by the rapporteur, Mr Lo Giudice, with regard to amendment 4.12, so my invitation to Mr Palma and Mr Caliendo is to withdraw amendment 4.13 and maintain amendment 4.12, on which a favourable opinion has been expressed. In agreement with amendment 4.12, I would urge the two authors to withdraw amendment 4.13.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u148	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have already made it clear before I withdrew the amendment to leave it to the vote of this House. Having put me back to the will of this House, if a part of the opposition that I respect and appreciate for the battles it is doing asks me, I must take this will into account. At the same time, I must say with regret, Mr President, that in the Commission it would have been possible to assess the aspects we have highlighted here this morning, and perhaps someone else we have forgotten, such as the thief who is punished with a six-year sentence without having participated in any act of terrorism, without knowing anything. In the Commission we are available as a technical opposition force to always help and contribute. That's what politics is for; it doesn't need a wand to prove that you have a majority. You must learn to do what was done in the last legislature. Senator Zanda knows better than I that, when I was Undersecretary for Justice, we always sought unity to have a unanimous vote, without taking advantage of the majority, especially on technical issues. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] For these reasons, by adhering to the invitation of the League Group, I withdraw amendment 4.13. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u150	I do not think that, after all this, he really wants to make the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u151	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I note your comment and your invitation. I, on the other hand, ask that the amendment withdrawn by Senator Caliendo be taken into account. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Once again, I call for a reflection on the fact that we are talking about penalties for the use of radioactive material or nuclear devices or, indeed, the use or damage of a nuclear plant with a view to terrorism. Frankly, I believe that a sentence of a species other than life imprisonment as the penalty, although reinforced, provided for in amendment 4.12, which provides for a minimum sentence of twenty years, is not enough. I think it is acceptable to support the original thesis of amendment 4.13, which I take at this point. Beyond the infictions and political tactics, having noted that the votes of the AL-A Group and also of many senators of the New Right Center majority have been unfavourable to the Government and leaving aside any political considerations about the majority that supports this Government at the time of the amendment that was voted on earlier, the technical considerations that lead us to consider life imprisonment more appropriate for this type of criminal fact, whose gravity, together - or at least later - to the crime of massacre, is the maximum conceivable. Even in order to avoid any risk of limitation of the crime for the known reasons, we believe that Amendment 4.13 should be adopted and that we should invite the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u154	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I have remained extremely basic about the progress of the House's work after the vote on the amendment. Perhaps, in my inexperience, I lack some notion about the institutions of the House, Senate and Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, speak on the order of business because we are in the process of voting. NUGNES (M5S). Let me talk, please! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I will have you speak on the order of business, which is why you asked to speak. Don't raise your voice. NUGNES (M5S). I thought that Parliament was independent of the Government, that they were two independent institutions and that, therefore, in the normal dialectic between the parties, voting against the opinion of the Government and the rapporteur was in the right possibilities and dynamics of carrying out the work of the Assembly. The fact that there has been a stir, that there has been an animated talk of the issue, that the suspension of the work of this House has been called for and that the parties have been redacted for having voted in a different way, I find it very serious. It is a very serious sign of a decay of democratic institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u155	I see that the order of business has not changed. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.13, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, who were subsequently withdrawn and taken by Senator Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.12, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u158	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u159	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u162	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, perhaps few have noticed, apart from Senator Ginetti, that yesterday, in the general debate, he referred to this article, talking about undercover agents, but I would like to point out to all my colleagues, announcing the vote in favour of the 5 Star Movement, that Article 5 provides for the appeal, in the cases of crime that we are introducing with this bill, to the figure of the provocateur agent, the one that so many strangers have attracted to this House. Many members of this House have torn their clothes when talking about corruption, about the use of these investigative instruments and the provocative agent, that is, the police officer who carries out certain conducts and therefore needs a precise criminal in order not to be incriminated in turn of crime, compared to the more attenuated figure of the undercover agent, that is, the infiltrator, the agent who does not cause the crime, but is part of the associative areas or criminal configurations in order to facilitate the emergence of crime. Well, Article 5 of this bill extends to these offences the use of this figure, as we read in the text (although clearly formulated is incomprehensible), recalling Law No. 124 of 2007, where it allows officials and agents of our secret services the possibility of putting into practice conduct defined by law as a crime, of course within certain limits that such law disposes to avoid rightly unreasonable use of this instrument that is certainly strong. In approving this article by us and by the other political forces who will vote in favour, I would like to keep it to the acts that this House will vote in favour of a figure who, in the abstract, has been very opposed when it comes to corruption. I would like this to be a milestone, a consideration that will be recalled in the event that the issues of anti-corruption will be re-addressed in this House, because it is not said that the character of the provocator is unacceptable in itself in our order, because it was introduced in 2007 and today, most likely, we add to the already envisaged hypothesis of crime in which this figure can also operate those relating to the financing of conduct for terrorist purposes. I wanted to make this specification.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u165	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, at this point I would like this further reflection to remain in the proceedings, namely that a figure in a context has a role and has consequences, whereas in another context and for other purposes it has a different aspect, so they are not in fact superimposeable figures. Let us think of the consequences and interpretation that can be given to an instrumental figure to voluntarily discredit and thus create disservice in a public administration. Here we are talking about a completely different area, because we are talking about a secret service agent, who works in the field of state security. So, in fact, the figures are not superimposed, because the reflexes and effects are completely different. Therefore, in my opinion, the analogy does not exist.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u166	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u167	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u168	We're at the electronic vote... [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Senator Santangelo was pointing out that he wanted to request an electronic vote. I asked for a quorum check first. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 12.36 p.m. and resumed at 12.59 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u169	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u170	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u171	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u174	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, in four days' time, the thirty-sixth anniversary of the Ustica air disaster will be celebrated without a single and shared truth about what has happened. We have recently discovered that very important documents classified as secrets and very secrets, which we have been able to consult as members of the Committee of Inquiry into the assassination of Aldo Moro - but whose disclosure after 36 years is still punishable - contain valuable indications to explain the causes of the explosion of the bird. We have urged the Government to desecute these acts, because the public and the victims' family have the right to know the threats of retaliation on innocent victims repeatedly advanced by the popular front for the liberation of Palestine maneuvered by the Libyans in May-June 1980, until identifying an aircraft (DC-10) as a possible target of retaliation itself. The publication of these acts can make a decisive contribution to debunking even hypotheses from science fiction and misdirections that have poisoned the history of this air disaster. We therefore urge the Government once again to respond positively to the appeals that every year, coinciding with the anniversary, come from the high offices of the State. In fact, again this year, on 27 June, the Head of State, the President of the Senate and the President of the House will make an appeal to achieve the truth, beyond any convenience. Therefore, for this to be pursued, it is necessary that the Government, after thirty-six years, finally makes these papers public and leaves to historians, to public opinion, to the magistrates, the possibility of making an opinion on a situation still open today, which sees us in conflict with the United States, with France, and which inevitably must have a shared and unique truth. [[Applause from Senators Albertini and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u177	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, everyone is aware of the very serious earthquake that struck Emilia-Romagna in May 2012. Everyone surely remembers the images of the plundered countries: Mirandola, Medolla, Cavezzo, Finale Emilia, San Felice sul Panaro and many other villages. It was a disaster for lost lives and destruction. In order to manage the emergency and to provide for the various stages related to the reconstruction, the public administration also made use of administered workers. The Emilia-Romagna Region, together with the agency Objective work, first, and Manpower, now, has not planned a training course in itinere for each worker in order to facilitate the relocation of work, once the earthquake emergency has ended. However, all kinds of skills have been made available, with important professional experience. With the excessive use of administered workers, the public administration shows that it contributes to the precariousness of work, giving the idea that disposable workers can exist. The formula is always the same: I take you, I exploit you as long as I need you, I let you do a job like that of other employees, but I don't recognize the guarantees at work, and above all, once I don't need you anymore, I send you home. It is clear that if a worker finds himself in this situation he will always be blackmailed, hostage of the arbitrariness of the leader placed by the politician on duty. Interim workers thus become a commodity of political exchange and this applies both to the workers of "Sisma Emilia" and to all the others. It is not ethical to use an employee, in the way they have been assigned in the context of reconstruction, more than fifteen to eighteen months without offering in return some prospect of employment or at least re-use of the skills acquired. To date, the functions performed by the administered within the local authorities represent the backbone of many offices (public reception, interface with external professionals, site inspections); activities that before the 2012 earthquake were not even planned for the staff of role. Therefore, it is likely that many recruitments had the sole purpose of using staff to cope with shortages of staff for ordinary activities or to dispose of backward work. Given the delicacy of the topic, I have also filed an act of inspection union addressed to the Minister of Labour Poletti, because the Ministry vigilant on what is happening in Emilia-Romagna, so that these workers and their rights are protected.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u180	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, it was July 2013 when I began to tell the story of the Il Forteto community. Today the work of the commission of inquiry of the Tuscany Region on the events occurred within the community Il Forteto has been completed; I repeat that it is sexual abuse lasted years and years. We have tabled a draft law to set up a committee of parliamentary inquiry, because we want to get to the bottom of it. It is the same conclusion that the members of the commission of inquiry of the Tuscany Region have arrived: commissioning of the cooperative Il Forteto, because it is still involved with the victims and the executioners of these absurd and atrocious facts. I therefore call on all the Tuscan Members of Parliament to take responsibility for this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry and to sign the text deposited at my first signature, the Senate Act 2093, in order to finally put an end to this tragedy, which has struck not only the victims, but all the citizens of Tuscany and Italy, because it is a real shame that has been put in place in this country. I therefore renew the invitation to the Tuscan Members to sign the text and finally to bring it to the Commission, to set up a Committee of Inquiry in order to really investigate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-644.ana.u181	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.06 a.m.
