ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. The first question will be asked 3-201944 on the appointment of the new Director-General of the ATAC of Rome Capital. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u4	Madam President, I begin by saying that today's reply, because of the delay it is given, loses a little 'value, having the Director General Francesco Micheli taken the decision to put back the position of director of the transport company of the capital. So this is a response that we leave to the acts because of the legal importance it has, but not because of the effects that can be derived from it. The question requires clarification on the procedures that have allowed the company to entrust the task of general manager to a subject in quiescence, specifically to Dr. Francesco Micheli, having regard to the provisions referred to in article 5, paragraph 9, of Decree-Law No 95 of 2012, which regulates the case concerning the prohibition, for the public administrations referred to in article 1, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree No 165 of 2001, for the public administrations included in the ISTAT list and for the independent authorities (these are the three cases to which the norm applies), to assign assignments to subjects in quiescence. I note that on the subject the Department of the civil service has issued special circulars (the n. 6 of 2014 and n. 4 of 2015), which have the purpose of strengthening and specifying the scope of the norm contained in article 5 cited. The above circulars reaffirm the prohibition of conferring duties on any employee placed in a quiet state, regardless of the nature of the previous employer and of the person who corresponds to the treatment of quiescence. In addition, the circulars explicitly ask the administrations to avoid elusive behaviour consisting in conferring on persons close to retirement posts and posts whose term of office is essentially carried out at a post-employment stage. For these subjects, administrations may consider granting a free assignment, but I will come back to this later. The ratio of the norm lies in the need to prevent public administrations from continuing to avail themselves of employees placed in quiescence, assigning them significant responsibilities in the administrations themselves, effectively circumventing the same institution and preventing top posts from being conferred on younger employees, with the risk that, as they remain in service, there is also a continuity sometimes not always transparent. The standard therefore aims to facilitate both the replacement and the rejuvenation of staff in public administrations. Like other provisions in force which already limited the possibility of conferring duties on persons in quiescence, contained in the laws of stability of previous years, these rules are not intended to introduce discrimination against pensioners, but to ensure the physiological replacement of staff in administrations, to be balanced with the needs of transfer of knowledge and skills acquired during working life. The rules in fact allow to entrust assignments free of charge for a year, precisely with the aim to facilitate the passage of deliveries and the transfer of competences between those who leave the administration and those who take over. I conclude by saying that - as I said at the beginning - Dr. Francesco Micheli no longer holds the position of Director General and that the competence of the Department of Civil Service and Government does not allow us to act directly on decisions concerning companies not included in the ISTAT list and owned by entities other than the State. This does not mean that other instruments can be activated to highlight incorrect behaviour, when the situations concern entities to which the reference legislation directly applies and on which the Government has direct competence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u7	ARACRI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to thank the representative of the Government, but, as he himself pointed out, we are talking about a question from a while ago. In the meantime, I have presented others on the ATAC, to which perhaps, if it has time, it will be able to respond before the end of the parliamentary term. Thanks anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u8	There follows the question 2-00395 on the bestowal of an award to one of the perpetrators of the massacre in the prisons of Schio, in the province of Vicenza. I call Senator Giovanardi to illustrate this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u9	Madam President, some time ago this news was shocked because, objectively, throughout the Resistance affair, those who participated in the war of liberation were on the right side, but one thing is objectivity, another thing is the subjectivity of behavior during the war of liberation and, above all, after. This is a famous episode, which occurred between 6 and 7 July 1945: 54 people, including 14 women (the youngest of 16 years), were slaughtered in a prison where they were held. Moreover, few of them were held in prison for reasons related to the then militancy in the Italian Social Republic, while many were detained for other reasons. The fact that the person responsible for this massacre, condemned to death and then amnested for this affair, Valentino Bortoloso (called "Teppa"), had received this medal of the Resistance, indeed, has aroused great clamour for, in the end, this to defy the true Resistance. This recognition, given to a person with those precedents, degrades the sacrifice and commitment of so many people who have fought to restore our freedom and who were certainly far from imagining such situations. For this reason, in June we presented this question to the Ministry of Defence for clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u10	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u11	On 25 April 2015, on the occasion of the anniversary of the 70th anniversary of the War of Liberation and Resistance, the Minister of Defence intended to confer on the partisans, former internees in Nazi lagers, as well as on the fighters in the regular departments of the armed forces still alive a commemorative medal called "medal of Liberation." The initiative, strongly desired by the Minister, found further support in a parliamentary resolution, approved by the VII Commission of the Chamber of Deputies (No 8-00100), aimed at conferring a certificate to the partisans, fighters, patriots, veterans and military who contributed to the liberation struggle. The same initiative has received huge consensus throughout the national territory and has recorded a great participation of citizens, in particular of young people, in those who have proved to be real popular celebrations, thus helping to keep alive the memory of the founding events of our Republic and to transmit its value to future generations. To date, in the face of these events, during which about 6,000 medals were delivered, the case highlighted by the Senator is the only one with critical profiles. In this regard, on 16 June last, the ceremony was held at the Prefecture of Vicenza to deliver the medal of liberation to 83 partisans reported by the National Association of Partisans of Italy (ANPI), the National Association of Christian Partisans (ANPC), the Italian Federation of Volunteers of Freedom (FIVL), the Italian Federation of Partisan Associations (FIAP), the National Association of veterans from imprisonment, internship and the War of Liberation (ANRP) and the National Association of Fighters of the War of Liberation framed in the regular departments of the Armed Forces (ANCFARGL). These associations took responsibility to collect all the requests, verify and certify the requirements of the moments and send them to the Ministry of Defence. Mr. Valentino Bortoloso was also present among the distinguished. Following further investigations conducted by the Defense at the request of the local authorities, it has been established that the person concerned was involved in a serious criminal event, called just by the questioner, which took place in the prisons of the city of Schio between 6 and 7 July 1945, following which he was sentenced in a definitive form. For this reason, the Minister of Defence decided to withdraw the medal of liberation attributed to the Bortoloso and the consequent cancellation of the name from the Register of the Awarded, notifying this decision to the Prefect of Vicenza and the ANPI already on August 5, 2016.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u14	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr Undersecretary, thank you for your reply and of course I am satisfied. I would have liked to satisfy my curiosity about who indicated it for this award. This has not been specified; I imagine it was an association that did so and maybe it will be the subject of another deepening. Since those who participated in the Second World War are at an advanced age, I take advantage of the presence of the Government and in particular of the Undersecretary, who had his military experience, to ask if it is not appropriate to give at least a symbolic recognition to the few left of those unfortunate soldiers and officers who participated in the campaigns in Russia, Albania and Africa, where they were definitely sent and certainly did not want to go volunteers, as it was done with the boys of 1899. In fact, I believe that they too have served the Homeland at a difficult time and in dramatic situations. It is important that the Republic also remembers their sacrifice as long as it is in time to do so: it could be, at no cost, an idea to cultivate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u15	Following is the question 3-03069 on the reinstatement in service of the army of a citizen victim of a judicial error. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u16	Madam President, as regards the premises justifying the act of inspection union, it should be noted first that, by executive decree No 10 of 5 January 2012, the person concerned was excluded from the competition procedure and from the relative ranking of merit due to lack of moral qualities and conduct provided for in Article 35, paragraph 6, of legislative decree No 165 of 2001. The legality of the measure was sanctioned by judgment n. 5628 of 2012 of the TAR del Lazio, then became final by failure to appeal. Therefore, no service relationship was established between the person concerned and the defence administration, which could be reinstated by the judgment given by the court for the preliminary investigation of Nocera Inferiore. On the substance of the request for the reinstatement measure, although I understand the honourable Member's wish, it cannot be adopted in the present case. The administration, then as it is today, is deprived of any discretion in the management of the competitive procedures and must instead conform its work to the legislative dictates under which, in order to access the competitive procedures and to establish a valid relationship of service, it is necessary that the competitor possess and maintain continuously, until the entry in role, the requirements previewed by the legislator. The continuous possession of the requirements to constitute the service relationship is a general and mandatory principle that informs the whole system. In fact, even for the establishment of contractual relations with the public administration, it is necessary that the private contractor has and maintains the moral requirements provided by the legislator, not only during the stages of the procedure and in the conclusion of the contract, but also until the end of the execution of the relationship. In relation to the parties involved, since they were not a reintegro in a position already held, but of a role for which the competitor had lost the participation requirements, the measure would also affect the quota entered into permanent service. Therefore, the measure requested would be affected by a further profile of illegality, affecting, since then, the ranking: it would in fact affect the legitimate positions of the employees already placed in the role and violating interests of higher rank, such as the par conditio of the participants in the competition, the stability of roles and the interest of the same administration. Not even the element of novelty constituted by the judgment of the judge for the preliminary investigations of Nocera Inferiore, passed into judgment, is able to affect the administrative action, failing the omitted appeal to the Council of State against the aforementioned decision of the TAR of Lazio. In relation to the above, the defence administration appears at the moment unable to take a measure to revoke the act of exclusion adopted at the time. The profiles set out by the Senator, however, make it appropriate to examine any further proposals, even for more comprehensive assessments of these cases compatible with the military order.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u19	EXPOSED Giuseppe (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, your answer is very technical and arid and, in some ways, I can also say superficial. It must be said, in my opinion, quite strongly in this House, that the Constitution and the Italian laws provide that a good father of the family should be followed in the management of public administration. It is a military named Raiola, who has been three times in Afghanistan and has participated in special operations. One morning in November 2011 he was arrested and spent two years between jail and house arrests. In these two years he should have been hired, but he was not hired - as it is said - for losing his moral rights. Later he was acquitted and with full formula, for not having committed the fact. Mr. Undersecretary, do you know who the magistrate who put Private Raiola in jail? It's called Marmo and it's the same guy who put Enzo Tortora in jail and also lost the lawsuit with Tortora. And how does the state respond? He responds by kicking out Private Raiola and preventing the realization of his dreams. His first dream, in fact, was the assumption in the Armed Forces, which is denied to him by the State, that is, by that public administration that, on the one hand, put him in jail in an illegitimate manner and, on the other, although he acquitted him, kicked him out of the Defense. All this seems really absurd to me and therefore I am not at all satisfied with the response given by the representative of the Government. Mr. Undersecretary, your offices could have worked better and I know your sensitivity is higher. Is this the message that the public administration and the current Government intend to give, saying no to a citizen who asks to be able to continue to do their work, in defence of security, the state and the Italians? I remember that not only the magistrate was wrong - magistrate to whom, by chance, the current Government has given a position of prestige in the public administration - but the State also had to pay soldier Raiola a refreshment of 41,000 euros. And yet we tell Private Raiola it's not morally acceptable. Sounds kind of weird to me. I will therefore continue my battle, which we called "Save Private Raiola." This gentleman must return to his place, in the line of defense. These days we are collecting signatures for a petition to be submitted to President Mattarella. We will continue through social networks, websites, newspapers and all possible tools, to fight for this case. Finally, Mr Undersecretary, regarding this absurdity which you have dealt with in a technical way today, I would ask you, for the next time, to find a different argument.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u20	Following is the question 2-00388 on the rental of a property to canon derisory by the Consortium of Reclamation of Piacenza. I call Senator Giovanardi to illustrate this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u21	Madam President, I do not intend to explain the questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u22	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to the questioning, which has not been explained, but which I imagine is known.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u23	Madam President, that is exactly what you have just said. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to point out that the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy does not carry out surveillance and control activities on reclamation consortia, which are carried out by the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, which regulate them with specific regulations. This place, precise that, on the basis of the information assumed by the Consortium of Piacenza, the property in question is of State property and has been entrusted to it for the exercise of the relevant institutional activities. It is, in particular, a stable in charge of the shelter of materials, spare parts, equipment and means necessary for the daily performance of the reclamation activities carried out in the Arda-Basso-Piacentino area. In this context, the property is also used as a service accommodation for personnel who carry out the custody and supervision of the material and equipment deposited there. As stated by the Consortium in question, this last employment, in addition to being in conformity with its institutional purposes, is expressly contemplated as a form of remuneration in kind, by the national collective agreement of the employees of the reclamation consortia. For the above, the competent administrative committee has decided to allocate the property in question, also for 2016, to accommodation of service of its employee, identifying a flat-rate fee to partially cover the expenses (in fact small) incurred by the Consortium for the maintenance in use of the property.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u26	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I take note of the answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u27	The following is the question 3-02965 on the deficiencies of registry staff in the Italian courts, in particular in the case of Naples. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, by means of this inspection act, the honourable Members ask what initiatives the Minister of Justice intends to take, under different and convergent profiles, with reference to the situation, represented by the President of the Naples Appeal Court and taken up in various press articles, concerning the failure to implement definitive measures for the inadequacy of the administrative staff in the district. The Minister of Justice has launched, in the immediacy of the publication of the aforementioned press articles, targeted insights into the delays of the criminal execution office at the Court of Appeal of Naples, through the competent groups. The general inspectorate then reported, in a preliminary information, that a critical situation had already been detected during the ordinary inspection carried out in 2013. In particular, the files pending completion by the Registry were 9,878, of which 4,370 judgments, 3,647 proceedings to be returned to the court of first instance, 1,860 returned by the Court of Cassation and waiting to be retransmitted to the court of first instance and 330 to be transmitted to the Court of Cassation, having been submitted the related appeal. Similar delays had been noted with regard to the recovery of procedural costs and financial penalties. It was also apparent - with regard to the delay in the compilation of the executive extract for those convicted on the loose - that, in cases of severe penalties, the Registry had done as a rule promptly and, however, because of the high number of cases, there was a risk that sentences of conviction would remain unexecuted for an excessive period of time. The inspection, therefore, highlighted the need for a redistribution of staff among the various services, so as to engage additional units in the suffering sectors, as well as to provide a turnover of the work positions that can generate stress, reducing productivity. Among other things, similar criticalities had been detected by the inspectorate at other similar, even large, judicial offices, and also in such specific and detailed cases requirements had been given for the standardisation of services. For Naples, therefore, at the outcome of the inspection of 2013, a precise invitation was issued to the head of the office to adopt formal governance directives necessary for overcoming delays, including through the re-visiting of work models and the distribution rationalization of human resources, as well as the verification of the results to be achieved through those measures. Therefore, in June of this year, the statements of the President of the Court of Appeal of Naples, according to which 50,000 sentences are not executed, of which 30,000 are sentenced, and, among the latter, 12,000 sentences condemning the sentence of imprisonment, bringing the remaining sentences to other kinds of penalty. As noted above, the Ministry has ordered immediate investigations in relation to the volume of the unexecuted judgments and the adoption of effective management models. At the outcome of preliminary interlocations, the head of the inspectorate and the head of the department of the judicial organization last September 8 carried out a targeted visit to the offices of the court of appeal of Naples, at the conclusion of which the president of the court was asked an extraordinary plan of urgent intervention, to whose execution the ministerial offices have assured wide support. Moreover, it should be noted that the Presidents of the Courts of Appeal, in order to deal with critical situations, have, in the exercise of their supervisory powers, the measures of the commands and of the applications of staff of the district. The effective implementation of the extraordinary plan, to be adopted with the urgency of the case, will therefore be closely monitored by the Ministry, also for the exercise of its prerogatives. In general, it must also be reiterated here that the Ministry has placed administrative staff at the Italian judicial offices at the centre of its attention, in order to assure them of this fundamental support. The work of these years has allowed to achieve important results and to trace new paths, in whose wake it is necessary to continue to direct the administrative action of the Ministry. In particular, in this context, the extraordinary measures for the recruitment of new resources are recalled, with the call for voluntary mobility for 1,031 posts published on 18 February 2015, and the mandatory mobility procedures promoted in implementation of the stability laws for 2015 and 2016; the start of the requalification procedures authorised by Article 21-c of Decree-Law No 83 of 2015, converted with amendments by Law No 132 of 2015, which allows the passage of area to the two fundamental qualifications of chancellors and officers for notifications, executions and protests (NEP); the signing, in November 2015, of the agreement on the Single Administrative Fund, with which were finally redistributed 90,496,445 euros for the years 2013, 2014 and 2015, intended for all the staff of the Ministry, and in which for the staff of the judicial administration, for the first time, a gradual system of introduction of premium mechanisms has been outlined. To these objectives have been added the fundamental measures introduced by Decree-Law No 117 of 2016, converted with amendments by Law No 161 of August 2016, with which the significant result of the entry of new resources into the judicial offices has been achieved, through recruitment procedures, which will open to the process of professional rejuvenation and the passage of professional skills in the judicial administration for many years expected. This is a structured recruitment programme, with the immediate permanent recruitment of a thousand new non-directive administrative staff units, to which additional resources may be added, even more significant resources once compulsory mobility procedures have been completed. This decree not only achieves the fundamental objective of starting new recruitments, after years of substantial stagnation in the sources of competitive recruitment, but also sets out a comprehensive framework of legislative provisions, which will enable the administration to take more effective action to improve the quality of justice services to which citizens are entitled. The rule provides, in fact, for the possibility of introducing new profiles, including technical ones, and to adjust and revise the existing professional profiles and their quotas, priority to meet the new and increased competences of the administration related to the transfer of compulsory expenses for the operation of the judicial offices and the renewed impulse of the processes of advanced digitization. The authorisation to revise the organic equipment of the individual areas with a simplified procedure allows, then, to accompany the recruitment procedures for mobility and those of retraining in a coordinated and consistent way with the contribution of new resources that will arise from the recruitment. The Minister has outlined the lines of intervention for the staff of the judicial administration with his own directive of 8 September last, in order to assure the new staff the most suitable and adequate training, enhancing the competences already spread in the various offices on the territory and making use of more innovative and agile tools of training. In the overall picture and in a general situation of scarcity of human resources, the Ministry paid particular attention to the offices of the district of the court of appeal of Naples, precisely in view of the overall situation found. The Ministry has, in fact, assigned 24 officials to the offices since 2014, out of a national total of 138 availability, following an agreement to share the rankings related to competitions launched by the Institute for Foreign Trade and the Ministry of the Interior. Also following voluntary mobility procedures, 116 posts were published, 28 of which were covered. Further posts have been made available through the mandatory mobility procedures referred to in the aforementioned Stability Act for 2015, through the special portal managed by the Department of Civil Service. In fact, compared to a total of 104 places offered in the district of Naples, there were 54 options by staff that must be relocated. At present, to the district of the court of appeal of Naples are assigned endowments in organic plan pairs to total 4.241 units, of which 3,450 resources present. The coverage rate is, therefore, 18.65 percent, below the national average of 20.87%. It should be made clear - unlike what was represented in the question - that the current structure of organic plants of administrative staff has been determined, with ministerial decrees of 25 April 2013 and 19 May 2015, taking into account the workloads recorded in the immediately preceding period. Therefore, the planning of administrative staff needs was drawn up at the end of the process of reviewing judicial geography, initiated in 2012, considering appropriately the new structures, in terms of resources, resulting from the amalgamation of offices. The situation of the offices, both as regards judicial and administrative staff, has been constantly monitored and, as a result of the availability of consolidated statistical data relating to the years following the entry into force of the reform of judicial geography and of an in-depth analysis of the elements suitable to represent the actual operational needs of the judicial offices, a proposal has been prepared by the offices of the Dicastery for the re-determination of organic plants of the judicial staff of the judicial offices of first instance, now in the examination of the Higher Council of the judiciary, which will follow the consistent revision of the needs of administrative staff. In preparing the new organic plants of administrative staff, account will have to be taken of the structural simplification outlined in the new regulation of organisation of the Ministry of Justice. Finally, the increased operational efficiency, achieved also through the unification of the management of the goods and services serving the central administration and the peripheral offices, will allow to respond more quickly to the needs of the judicial offices, supporting the process of renewal of the relative organizational structures and the increasing computerization of all the services inherent in the administration of the justice. In order to give effect to all the organizational measures already adopted and soon to be adopted, the quotas of the individual professionalisms, also of new institution, which will subsequently be divided between the judicial offices and the central and peripheral structures in which the judicial administration is divided, will be identified within the new overall allocation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u31	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, I immediately declare that we are not satisfied with the answer. Unfortunately it is in clear bureaucratic language, it refers to future events and quite uncertain and does not respond specifically, because it does not detail what happened between the inspection of 2013 and the statements of the President of the Court of Appeal of 2016; it does not provide explanations on how it is possible that a similar load of judgments passed in court and not executed, nor does it account for the inspection of 2016; it does not clarify however whether there are responsibilities from the organisational point, since the previous recommendation was to reorganize the offices. Among other things, your reply, Mr Vice-Minister, does not take into account the measures that are now being taken; I am not referring to the future, general and general measures that will be taken for the administration of justice and all its evils, which we hear every time. There is a problem here, a major problem: these are thousands of unfulfilled sentences, people who do not go to prison and we still do not know who is responsible for this and what caused it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u32	Following is the question 3-02989 on the architectural recovery of the abbey of Nervesa della Battaglia, in the Province of Treviso. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u33	Madam President, I am referring to the question by which Senator Puppato asks the Ministry for news about the Benedictine monastery of the Abbey of Sant'Eustachio located in Nervesa della Battaglia, in the Province of Treviso and in particular about the custody of the works by the Municipality of Nervesa della Battaglia, in the mores of the iter of investigation on the procedure to public evidence concerning the granting of the execution, the restoration and the architectural and structural recovery of the abbey, still in progress, by ANAC (National Anti-corruption Authority), to which are subordinate the definitive contractual conclusion and the consequent delivery and start of the works. It should be noted that the property has been declared of cultural interest, pursuant to the combined provisions of Articles 10, paragraphs 1 and 12, of Legislative Decree No 42 of 22 January 2004 (code of cultural goods and landscape), with provision of 13 March 2014. The property belongs to the Municipality of Nervesa della Battaglia, in the Province of Treviso which, in application of the provisions of Article 55 of the Code (which regulates the saleability of properties belonging to the cultural property of the State and other territorial public authorities), forwarded to the competent Superintendence, in May 2016, an application for the authorization to the concession in use, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 57- bis of the same Code, which provides precisely the possibility that the assets of the cultural property can be rented or granted in use. The authorisation requested by the Municipality was the subject of a collegial evaluation on 9 June 2016 of the Regional Committee for Cultural Heritage. The College examined the case on the basis of the advice given in the matter by the Superintendence of Fine Arts and Landscape for the Provinces of Venice, Belluno, Padua and Treviso, and issued the authorization order for the transfer of the property by concession in use, pursuant to paragraph 3 of the above mentioned Article 55 of the Code, dictating the following requirements and conditions. First, under the heading "prescriptions and conditions for planned conservation measures', it is established that the preservation of the good will be ensured by appropriate restoration measures, with particular reference to the architecture of the monument and the areas of discovery of relevance. Pursuant to article 20, paragraph 1, of Legislative Decree No. 42 of 2004 must be communicated in advance to the competent Superintendence any possible change of destination, in order to ensure its compatibility with this provision and with the historical or artistic character of the property, excluding any prejudice to its conservation. Under the heading "public use conditions of the goods," taking into account the situation resulting from the previous uses of the goods, the measure provides that the modalities of public use will be those permitted by the intended cultural, exhibition and educational uses, coinciding in particular with the preservation and use of the monument, and its conditions of decoration. Finally, under the heading "congruity of the modalities and the time limits for achieving the objectives of valorization indicated in the request" the objectives of valorization indicated in the application for authorisation to the concession in use and the period of five years from the date of concession in use for their achievement shall be considered to be appropriate. The measure has been issued within the scope of the authorized competence referred to in Articles 55 et seq. of the Code and, consequently, does not enter into the substance of the term of eighty years of duration of the concession, which is an argument that falls outside the field of protection, even if related to the time of realization and the financial commitment that the objectives of valorization require. In fact, the subject is more properly related to the sphere of market freedom and the defence of free competition. In fact, the question was referred to the National Anti-corruption Authority which, in the recent resolution on 5 July 2016 (deliberation that, in fact, the Senator could not know, because the date of the resolution of the DAC coincides with that of submission of the question), considered that it did not see any margin for its own intervention. I conclude by pointing out that, in any case, the execution of the project attached to the application for a concession remains subject to the competence of the Superintendence of Archaeology, Fine Arts and Landscape for the metropolitan city of Venice and the Provinces of Belluno, Padua and Treviso, pursuant to Article 33, paragraph 1 (b) of the Code; according to which the Superintendences authorize the execution of works and works of any kind on cultural goods, and they also exercise all the faculties, attributed to them by the second part of the Code, of supervision, inspection, protection and conservation of the cultural good.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u36	PUPPATE (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary for his very comprehensive reply. I would point out that, of course, we will be watching, because we are talking about a concession that in temporal terms is much more assimilable to a surface right (which we know is a sub-dimension of the sale, of the perennial sale), rather than a normal public-private partnership, which would have been appropriate. In fact, we are talking about an 11th century abbey, located in an extraordinary position on the hill of Montello, massacred by much carelessness over the centuries and, largely destroyed following the First World War, which has manifested itself with all its brutality right on Montello. The perplexities obviously remain. The Undersecretary mentioned the resolution of the DAC of July 2016 and the opinion of the Superintendence of Fine Arts and Landscape of the previous month. Well, I inform the Undersecretary that in April (therefore two months and one month respectively before the said institutions pronounced), the Municipality has finally awarded the property, by open procedure, to the concessionaire, with the consequent delivery and start of the works. The work is certainly subordinate to the findings of the inspection activities of the DAC and the Superintendence, however we must consider an anomaly the fact that we proceed as if nothing were nothing, thereby further demonstrating that obviously there is a poor sensitivity. In fact, it is not possible for an abbey whose property was received by the Municipality in 2003 to proceed so quickly, without first waiting, as would have been mandatory and more than appropriate, for the opinions of the competent bodies. However, we will ensure that the use of the public good keeps its destination in the course of the time to come. In the meantime, in the five years planned for the valorization of the abbey, I hope that the building planned to latere will take place in full compliance with the code of cultural goods and landscape.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u37	The questioning and questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u38	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-690.ana.u39	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 4 October, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.46 p.m.
