ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. The first questions will be asked 3-02594 and 3-02655 on the stabilization of the precarious educators of municipal kindergartens and teaching staff in kindergartens and children's schools, in particular in Rome. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u4	Mr President, I am answering these questions, which call for clarification on the stabilisation of precarious staff in the education and school sector within local authorities. With the conversion of Decree-Law No 113 of 2016, introducing urgent measures for territorial authorities, the problem of so-called precarious kindergartens has been solved for over 36 months, which risked the failure to renew the contract. The rule, strongly supported by the Government, allows the regular start of the school year. In fact, it allows the municipalities to proceed, in 2016, 2017 and 2018, to an extraordinary three-year plan of permanent recruitment of teaching and educational staff necessary to allow the maintenance of levels of training offer. This will ensure the continuity of the education service in the nursery schools and nursery schools of the local authorities, as already happens in the national education and training system, and thus ensure the quality of the service itself. In addition, in order not to disperse the professionalism acquired by the above-mentioned staff engaged with a fixed-term employment relationship, the municipalities are allowed to recruit staff present in the rankings, as well as the staff who will be included in other rankings to be defined following selective tests for qualifications and examinations. Selective procedures have been authorised for qualifications and examinations, for permanent employment contracts, reserved for teaching and educational staff, with three years of service, even non-continuous, on a fixed-term basis, employed by the administration which indicates recruitment procedures. The government, therefore, with extraordinary intervention, has equipped the local authorities with every useful tool to solve a problem of high social sensitivity, allowing - as also requested by the questioner - to exceed also the limit of turnover, scheduled for 25%, of the cessations. It is now up to the municipalities to make the best use of these instruments, not frustrating the effort that has given rise to this exceptional commitment. Among the cities that had reported the problem and that had shown that they had real difficulty starting the school year, we point out that some of them have already activated them abundantly - I mean the cities of Turin. Bologna, Milan, Genoa and Rimini - while others have started but are more difficult. I am thinking of the Municipality of Rome, which had pointed out particular difficulties of uncovering in staff and contracts that were due to expire. We hope, therefore, that all administrations will proceed and that they will be able to give life safely at the beginning of the school year.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u7	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr Secretary, first of all, I would like to thank you for your very brief reply, which, however, omits a number of problems which, unfortunately, are still open. You have just indicated a series of municipalities (Turin, Genoa and others) that are starting to use the tools we require, such as, for example, the 25% increase in percentages compared to turnover. The subject of the questions was clear: it was quite incredible that, at local level, especially towards educators, a real injustice was perpetuated since many of these have been precarious for some time. According to the European Union's ruling, thirty-six months later they would have had the right to finally see a permanent employment relationship recognised; at the national level this was paradoxically gaining access and instead there were many local impediments. But you of all the municipalities did not indicate the Municipality of Rome, because obviously the situation of the Municipality of Rome continues to be very complicated. In the plan for a possible stabilization of 485 educators and educators of kindergartens - before the Commissioner's intervention and also at the beginning of this junta - only 100 kindergartens signed the contract. So the reality for the 207 kindergartens of the Municipality of Rome is heavy and many risk not to open or to provide a reduced service. We therefore allow ourselves to arrive at a solicitude towards the Municipality of Rome, but also of the same Ministry in order to ensure that what many municipalities are doing is carried out also within the Municipality of Rome, as well as in other municipal administrations, to solve once and for all the problem of these precarious who, among other things, have guaranteed in all these years the possibility of offering an absolutely fundamental service in the cities for families and children.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u8	The following is Question 3-03111 on a competition procedure held at the Veterinary Prevention Department of ASL in Pavia. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u9	Mr President, I respond to this question, which calls for clarification on the cancellation of the selection procedure for an administrative assistant post in the veterinary prevention department of ASL in Pavia. Article 60 (6) of Legislative Decree No 165 of 30 March 2001 assigns to the Inspectorate for the Public Service tasks of supervising compliance of administrative action with the principles of impartiality and good performance, pursuant to Article 97 of the Constitution. In view of its functions and in order to ensure compliance with the principle of merit, as last recalled by Article 17 of Law No 124 of 2015, the inspectorate, at the initiative of the Minister, has started an investigation to understand the reasons that led to the annulment of the competition procedure to which the questioner refers. The Director-General of ASL of Pavia, following the request of the Inspectorate, with note with protocol number 43415/2016 of 29 July 2016, has specified that the recruitment procedure started does not have the characteristics of public competition, as no formal notice has been published in the Official Journal and a special examination commission has not been established with the presence of external members to the institution. As a result, ASL argued that these are aptitude tests aimed solely at assessing fitness. However, before proceeding with this procedure, ASL requested Pavia's employment centre to provide a ranking of the names that were eligible for the required position. Of the 64 persons enrolled in the above ranking, only 47 participated in the selection; the first and only suitable place to be filled was Mrs. Daniela Cosentino, who had already had previous working experiences within the same Department, with fixed-term and atypical employment contracts. In analysing the committee's work, ASL found that it was not limited solely to a fitness assessment, but used criteria, both for the definition of the applications and for the evaluation of the individual tests, exceeding, in the opinion of the same body that initiated the procedure, the criteria underlying the selection. As a result, ASL decided to act on its own initiative and by Decree No. l37 of the Director-General of 12 July 2016, clarifying the reasons for the cancellation of the selection, without, however, canceling the previous steps in full on the basis of the principle of the preservation of administrative acts, thus giving the possibility to all participants - the 47 of the list provided by the employment office that had responded positively - to carry out the tests again. In the light of the information provided by ASL, the Civil Service Inspectorate requested further specifications from the administration concerned, considering that the reasons for the administrative action followed by the institution are not clear today. Therefore, in view of this further observation, the inspectorate asked for further clarifications and specifications bearing in mind that we are within an exclusive competence in the area of health of the Region and that, therefore, the ASL is subject to powers of control, supervision and direction by the Region itself and that the Government, from this point of view, has no substitute powers vis-à-vis the Region in order to activate different procedures. The Government undertakes to pay full attention to the topic and to follow the Region in the implementation of the procedures in order to ascertain whether there have been any injury of rights against the participants or the person who has proved appropriate or if, instead, as the ASL considers, all the rules in force to date have been respected.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u12	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I believe that the answer is comprehensive and I can take note that the control that the Government has carried out is very detailed and specific. I would ask, if I may, to be in possession of the answers you have received from the local authorities so that we can continue to follow and monitor to verify that the procedures are followed in the most correct and appropriate way.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u13	Following is the question 3-201903 on the pollution of the Val Basento in Basilicata. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u14	Mr President, with regard to the questions raised by the honourable Member concerning the discharge into the subsoil of the waters resulting from the extraction and separation of hydrocarbons of the Val d'Agri di Viggiano Oil Centre, on the basis of the elements acquired by the appropriate Directorate-General, as well as by the competent national and territorial authorities, the following is true. The ENI, following the preventive seizure by the judicial authority of some plants of the Centro Olio Val D'Agri (baskets enslaved to the 560 unit and reinjection well "Costa Molina 2" last April, announced that it had proceeded to the gradual closure of the production of the wells, as well as the temporary general stop of the plants of the Centro Olio Val D'Agri. The Region Basilicata, with the resolution of Giunta of 12 April 2016, has arranged the suspension of the exercise of the activity of discharge in deep geological units of the waters of layer through the well "Costa Molina 2" with immediate effect and for a period not exceeding ninety days, beginning from the date of notification of the provision. The environmental compatibility office of the same Region has communicated to the ENI the start of the review of the procedure of integrated environmental authorization (IAA) issued with resolution of the Regional Council n. 627/2011, in accordance with the provisions of the legislative decree n. 152 of 2006. Following the confirmation of the seizure by the Court of the review of Potenza on 16 April, the ENI has started a program to secure and conserve the assets of the Oil Center Val d'Agri and the wells related to it for the duration of six months, which includes all the activities and interventions to be carried out on the three macro-areas: collection network, Oil Center Val d'Agri, oil pipeline COVA-Taranto. ENI informed the Region and the ARPA Basilicata about this programme of interventions. The judicial authority on 1 June 2016 ordered the temporary discharge of the two tanks and the Costa Molina 2 injection well in order only to allow the realization of the works and works indicated in the acts, as ordered by the prosecutors, setting as the deadline 31 August 2016 for their realization, or even before that date, if the company were to declare the completion of the adaptation works. In the same month of June, the ENI communicated to the Basilicata Region the request for non-substantial modification of the plant for the implementation of interventions aimed at adapting the plant to the technical elements advanced by the judicial authority related to the management of the layer water produced during the exercise of the Val d'Agri Oil Center. With the appropriate resolution of the Regional Council of 25 July, the resumption of the activity of the Costa Molina 2 well was authorised and, on 4 August, the Public Prosecutor of the Republic at the Court of Potenza gave a favourable opinion to the seizure of the tanks and the Costa Molina 2 well. As regards the quality of surface and groundwater, last May ARPAB provided data on the analytical surveys carried out on groundwater in the area adjacent to the Costa Molina 2 injection well in the period from January 2014 to October 2015. These analyses, carried out on samples of water taken from sources called SG4 and SG8, provided values which were always below the limit of analytical detection over the specified period. ARPAB has also further integrated the documentation with the analytical results relating to the surface waters of the Pertusillo invader, intended for the production of drinking water, as referred to in Article 80 of Decree-Law No 152 of 3 April 2006. These analyses, carried out in the years 2014 and 2015, show that, at the specific point of sampling of the Pertusillo invade located near the point of collection of drinking water, hydrocarbons, both total and aromatic, were lower than the parametric values provided by the aforementioned legislative decree. As regards the risk related to the seismic activity of the area, it is specified that the Ministry of Economic Development has developed guidelines for mining activities such as extraction and reinjection of fluids, to be applied for the monitoring and prevention of seismic risk. The document was also drafted in collaboration with seismologists of the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology and other research institutions. The indications in the guidelines provide that re-injections must be carried out only with incompressible fluid pressures that do not exceed the original natural pressure of the reservoir rock.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u17	PEPE (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr. Undersecretary, we are not entirely satisfied with the Government's response. Unfortunately, the situation in Basilicata remains urgent and people continue to get sick. It is clear and clear that there is such a problem of pollution that we cannot understand where this pollution comes from. If the ARPA, on the one hand, says it doesn't pollute, on the other hand the analyses carried out by private individuals show us exactly the opposite. We have both the situations of aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) and heavy materials that are present in a water basin. Remember that the Costa Molino 2 well is near the lake of Pertusillo, a drinking water basin that should provide water even in Puglia. Unfortunately, the situation remains in its total gravity. We ask the government to do what is possible and to put pressure on the ARPA in such a way that there is continuous monitoring, because it is not possible that the analyses we are talking about date back to 2014-2015. We should carry out continuous monitoring so that at least where these pollutants come from, that - I repeat - there are, there are and, unfortunately, they are putting Basilicata in a condition in which people get sick and die.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u18	Following is the question 3-02098 on the continuous fires in the Fire Land. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u19	Mr President, with reference to the question on the phenomenon of the burning of waste in Campania, on the basis of the elements acquired by the appropriate Directorate-General of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and the other competent administrations, the following is represented. According to reports from the government responsible for the contrast of the phenomenon of the burnings of waste in the Campania Region, at the prefecture territorial office of Naples, the trend of the phenomenon of the burnings of waste is constantly monitored by the provincial commands of the fire department of Naples and Caserta. Starting from 2013 - the year in which the activities of contrast and prevention of the phenomenon have been strengthened - the interventions of the fire department to shut down fires of waste show a trend in net decrease. Data for 2015 confirm and expand the declining trend, with less than 63 percent in the Province of Caserta and less than 42 percent in the Province of Naples. Fires can be attributed to conducts and uneven causes. Part of it is the result of practices of improper disposal of waste, even special ones; some fires take place near the Roma fields, in areas used abusively for the storage and disposal of materials; the greater number of interventions of firefighters is concentrated, finally, in the urban territory of Naples. In recent years all types of fire and every type of material, especially the most dangerous ones, have been affected by the reduction of the shutdown operations, as confirmed by the statistics relating to the first months of the current year: from January to April no tyre fire occurred in the Province of Caserta, while in the Province of Naples there were eight against 39 of the first four months of 2012. The results obtained are the result of the commitment with which the institutions, the Forces of the Order, the Army, the local authorities, the environmental associations and the civic committees adhere to the activities promoted under the pact for the land of the fires, stipulated on the initiative of the head of the government for the phenomenon of the burnings of waste in Campania and coordinated by the same in the cabin of interinstitutional direction with the prefectures, the Campania Region and the local authorities. Among the many measures taken are highlighted, in particular, those dedicated to the strengthening of the controls of the Forces of the Order, which also avail themselves of the extraordinary competition of 200 soldiers of the Army, assigned to the prefects of Naples and Caserta. In order to make repression more effective, moreover, a working table was established at the office of the government representative with the prosecutors, the law enforcement agencies and the territorial institutions, to give full implementation to Article 256- bis of the single environmental text, sanctioning the crime of arson of waste, and to Law No 68 of 2015, which introduced the crimes of environmental pollution, environmental disaster and omission to clean up, starting, in agreement, a specific training activity interforce for environmental detectives, which involved more than 300 men of police forces, firefighters, local police. In parallel, on the administrative level, measures are under way for legal, technical and financial support in favour of the ninety municipalities participating in the pact, favouring reclamation, redevelopment and remote control of the territory, and the free withdrawal of abandoned tyres with over 10,000 tons of tires recovered and removed from the stakes. In order to expand the involvement of environmental and civic associations, the network of civic observatories for the protection of health and the environment, with over 500 members, has been activated between the Government and the Federation of Civil Associations and Committees, in implementation of the "Europe for Citizens" programme. The activation and participation of the citizen also makes use of the application for smartphones "Help us to turn off the fires ", which allows every citizen to activate the interventions of fire brigades, municipalities and forces of order on places of fire and waste abandonment. The installation of these measures has been shared and implemented in the programme of interventions drawn up by the Commission established by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 7 December 2015, in implementation of Law No 6 of 2014 (so-called Land of Fires). This document is currently being investigated. Its approval, without prejudice to the financial aspects, would allow further strengthening of the prevention and countering of the phenomenon of abusive disposal and burning, since the consolidation and extension of the ongoing actions and the activation of new operating lines are foreseen. Finally, as regards the press article cited by the Senator, it refers to the fires that occurred during the months of June and July last year in Giugliano, near the vast ex-SIN areas, including a number of landfill sites, which are still being seized. Investigations have been carried out on these areas and safety measures are being carried out by the Commissioner responsible. The incendiary episodes, on which the court of Naples Nord proceeds, are not attributable to a single matrix. As a result, close surveillance services close to the areas most affected by the fires were further strengthened in Giugliano; police services were stepped up along the roads connecting to the illegal storage sites of waste and in the illegal spilling areas, aimed at identifying those responsible and at seizing the means used to transport the material. In addition, checks on economic and production activities for the verification of waste and waste disposal procedures were further strengthened. Added to this are the interventions carried out under the Covenant for the Land of Fires, which have allowed to recover about 1,500 cubic meters of waste - urban and special - in places, for decades affected by abusive dumping practices, of which there is also provision the redevelopment with the equipment of cameras, connected with the operating rooms of the local police and the Forces of the Order. Following these activities, the fires in the territory of Giugliano were drastically reduced. For complete information it is also noted that, according to the ARPA Campania, the same has foreseen, in the context of the activities governed by Law No 6 of 2014, to investigate numerous agricultural land falling throughout the wide area of Giugliano, to identify those not suitable for agricultural production, for the presence of contaminants related to fires and illegal disposal of waste. In this context, in the last two years, many land and agricultural crops in the area in question have already been investigated and the results are published on the Agency's website, where it is also possible to observe the location of the investigated land, which is close to the most carefully maintained landfills. These investigations add to the copious ones that ARPAC has already carried out in previous years at the request of the Commissioner of Government Delegate in the context of the activities of its own relevance, concerning the safety and reclamation of the areas of Giugliano in Campania and of the lakes of Castelvolturno. In the light of the information presented, as far as its competence is concerned, the Ministry of the Environment continues its ongoing monitoring activity without reducing in any way the state of attention on these issues, also in order to assess any involvement of other institutional entities.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u22	PEPE (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). I must say, Mr Secretary, that this time too we are not satisfied at all, because very little has been done. It is true, yes, that in Giugliano part of the problem has been solved, but it has moved towards Casal di Principe and, in part, in the province of Naples North. It is a fact of recent news a fire of great proportions in a Roma camp where, most likely, there was the intervention of the underworld to try to send them away in order to obvious building speculations. These, however, moved not far away, practically behind my house. So, I can testify with almost mathematical certainty that the problem has only been moved. In addition to the problem of the Roma, there is this continuous spilling of garbage on all roads, even on the median Axis, always in those areas, where, practically, there is no possibility of intervening, except waiting for someone to pass and, within a few seconds, trigger a fire. Then, the moment the officers arrive, it's too late. The only positive note is that when it rains, the problem magically resolves. We cannot, however, always hope that the Father will put his hand on us and continue to prevent this from happening. We need the repression of a phenomenon that is now affecting not only Naples and Province. It is now clear that there is such a problem in all the Italian regions. The other painful note is that the ARPA continues to mock us, monitoring only PM10, when it turns out to me that pollutants such as dioxins and furans are not monitored, which are almost certainly present in the fallout of the fires. We do not understand, therefore, why the ARPA does not do this kind of analysis, and we do not understand why there is no coordination of the Forces of Order. Of the military you mentioned, in fact, I did not see any of them in the area I mentioned earlier. Therefore, we need a greater commitment from the Forces of Order, whose financial difficulties we realize. If, however, we find money for financial international missions, then it is also a war, as those who live in our parts claim. We would like the ARPA to carry out more serious controls, because the control only on the PM10, honestly, seems like a mockery. We would like further analyses to be carried out, also because dioxins and furans are known carcinogens.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u23	Following is the question 3-03110 on the case of an employee of Telecom Italia SpA with visual disability. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u24	Mr President, with reference to the parliamentary act of Senator De Petris, concerning the discriminatory behaviour of an employer towards a worker with serious disabilities, I would like to explain the following. Article 3 of the Constitution sets out the principle of equality, recognizing to all citizens equal social dignity and equality: "before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions." This principle refers to all citizens as such and not already in relation to their work. Paragraph 2 of Article 15 of the Workers' Statute, as amended by Legislative Decree n. 216 of 2003, provides instead a specific form of protection against discriminatory acts and pacts, including those for reasons of disability, put in place by employers towards workers. Among the other legislative measures in the area of guarantee against discrimination, legislative decrees no. In 2003, 215 and 216 respectively, with which equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin and equal treatment in employment and working conditions are protected. These decrees have a common structure, but different scope: Decree No 216 specifically concerns access to employment and employment. Decree No 216 of 2003, in particular, protects, inter alia, access to employment and employment, both self-employed and dependent; employment and working conditions, including career advancements, pay and dismissal conditions; access to all types and levels of vocational guidance and training, further training and retraining, including professional traineeships. Article 2 provides the concept of discrimination, distinguishing between direct and indirect, while as regards the subjective field, Decree No 216 of 2003 protects the worker, whether subordinate, self-employed or unsubordinate. As regards the judicial protection against the discrimination in question, Legislative Decree No 216 of 2003 refers to the rite governed by Article 28 of Legislative Decree No 150 of 2011 by which it is possible to address the court in order to obtain the cessation of injurious behaviour and the adoption of a behavior suitable to remove the effects of the discrimination established, as well as, where appropriate, the compensation of the damage. I would also point out that the right to act is conferred on the worker who has been discriminated against, as well as on trade union organisations and associations and organisations representing the law or interests of the injured party. I would also point out that Law No 67 of 2006, which lays down measures for the judicial protection of persons with disabilities who are victims of discrimination, promotes the full implementation of the principle of equal treatment and equal opportunities for persons with disabilities. This law states that in cases of discrimination against persons with disabilities relating to access to work and work, the provisions of Legislative Decree No 216 of 2003 apply. As regards the initiatives that the Ministry of Labour can take in this field, it is clear that the territorial directorates of the aforementioned Ministry may carry out, at the request of the worker who complains of discrimination because of his disability, investigations aimed at acquiring evidence usable by the same worker in the competent courts. Finally, as regards the case of the worker mentioned in the parliamentary act in question, the territorial direction of the work of Rome has announced that the matter has been defined by conciliation minutes signed by the parties at the Court of Rome on 11 June 2015.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u27	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for the list of all the systems and rules governing the protection of workers and aimed at combating discrimination in the workplace. Unfortunately, you know well, Undersecretary, that we live a little different times. In fact, the weakening of the protection system means that these episodes of discrimination, so heavy and so obvious, alas, multiply. In this particular case, as happened many times before, there was a ruling of the labour court, which had, among other things, declared the measure of Telecom discriminatory and therefore had canceled the transfer itself; but, as often happens (in this case it was Telecom, but it happened to FIAT and in many other companies, unfortunately), the company did not comply. There is another serious point on which I would ask for further action. In this case, conciliation took place after the question was submitted. I therefore ask that there be special surveillance and verification of the existence in Telecom - denounced by several parties and not only in my question - of a sort of "ghetto" department, where all those who may be doing trade union activities more pushed or who are not considered welcome by the company or by some of the company's managers would be confined. I would like to stress that, unfortunately, the legislative apparatus - not of our Constitution, but of the legislative apparatus to protect the rights of workers and anti-discrimination - has, in our opinion, been greatly weakened (even because of the political climate that we breathe), to the point that, even in the face of judgments and ordinances of the judge (as in this case, but I could make an exterminated list), companies continue not to comply with it and to implement discriminatory behaviours. The very serious episode of yesterday in Piacenza, concerning the dead and overwhelmed worker, shows how it seems to have returned to the climate of the fifties in some jobs.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u28	Following is the question 3-03113 on the employment of foreign workers, instead of Italian workers, by Total in the Oil Center of Corleto Perticara, in the Province of Potenza. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u29	Mr President, I would like to explain the parliamentary act of Senator Barozzino concerning the Oil and Gas Centre "Red Tempa" in Corleto di Perticara. In this regard, I provide the information acquired in the context of the investigation carried out by the Ministry that I represent. First of all, I would like to point out that the inspection activities carried out by the competent territorial direction of work are not yet completed due to the complexity of the yard, characterised by the fragmentation of the activities carried out under subcontracting to several undertakings. The overall project relating to the construction of the Oil and Gas Centre "Tempa Rossa," located in the Municipality of Corleto di Perticara, was, in fact, entrusted by the oil company Total to the ATI between the Tecnimont SpA and the KT SpA as contractor and general contractor for the design, supply of materials, construction and start-up of the plant, which uses a supply chain of contractors for the different structures. At the date of inspection of the territorial direction of the work, on 9 August last, there were no. 1,852 units of which 1,557 Italian and 295 foreign. Compared to the total of 1,852, 407 workers were administered by interim agencies, 54 posted by other companies, while 10 were self-employed. Moreover, the proportion of foreign workers currently stood at 16%. In any case, the figures concerning the employment of personnel on the site are verifiable, week by week, and communicated to the competent prefecture for anti-mafia purposes. I would also like to point out that the head of the oil company Total has stressed its attention to compliance with environmental and safety and health standards at the workplace included in contracts signed with contractors. The Basilicata Region, requested in this regard, reported that on 29 June, at the request of the trade unions, a meeting was held at the Presidency of the Region between trade unions, Total and the management of the companies that carry out the work for the realization of the Oil Center of Corleto Perticara. The Region of Basilicata has announced that it has received, during the meeting, assurances on the will to verify every opportunity useful to the continuity of work of the contracts in expiration or recently expired, within the limits of the possession, by the workers concerned, of the tasks necessary for the requested operations. Moreover, the Region and the trade union organizations were assured of a subsequent reconnaissance, by the same companies present at the discussion table, aimed at the exact verification of the consistency of foreign labour at the time employed and of workers resident in the areas adjacent to the Oil Centre or in any case in Basilicata. I would also point out that the Region of Basilicata has called for the establishment of a discussion table between the trade unions and the companies operating, leaving to the latter the management of the problems in question. Finally, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will continue to follow this issue, also in the light of the results of the ongoing inspections.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u32	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I welcome the Government's interest in this, which seems to me to be a very sensitive issue, which is absolutely not to be underestimated. The only thing I know - I repeat - with pleasure, however, is the fact that there is a sort of inspection being carried out. This is a good thing, because the news you gave is not what I received and that I received a few minutes ago. There there is a replacement of workers; there are no longer any contracts awarded to other firms. From my information and my sources, which are very reliable because they come from the territory, the foreign workers who work there are more than half of the Italian ones. That's also a problem, but that's not all there is. It is not that there is a lack of work or that they carry out a different job; these workers in fact replace the Italian workers, with the same jobs and with the addition that, while the Italian workers take 9 euros so far, the foreign workers take 5. They also make totally different schedules and have no contact with Italian workers, so they don't talk to each other. It is clear that this does not help to create integration. On the contrary, this is the classic struggle among the poor, not worthy of this country; this government - we must say - on labour policies is totally absent. We hope that, with the further determination that you said you wanted to make, this will be a good time to give answers. It is also necessary to ascertain (because my sources also report) the health aspect in which foreign workers live, which is another very worrying element. So, I take it as a good thing - and I thank you for having anticipated it today - that there will be a further check because I think that certain answers should be given. I repeat: we are not talking about workers who are going to perform a different or more burdensome job, but about workers who are replacing other workers. This is the pettyst thing that can happen in the world of work. I would ask you, therefore, to stand by what you said because I take it at your word and I am used to being very annoying from this point of view.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u33	The following is the question 0-32734 on the use for human consumption of hyperpure and recrystallised salt. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u34	With regard to the question raised by the question, it is represented that the food salt is defined in Article 2 of Ministerial Decree No 106 of 31 January 1997 (on the production and marketing of food salt) as the product obtained - I quote - from sea water, from underground salt deposits or from natural salamoias. The same decree states that salt obtained as a by-product of industrial processes cannot be used for human consumption. According to Article 3 of that Regulation, the food salt must contain: not less than 97% of sodium chloride calculated on dry matter; not more than 0.5% of water insoluble substances calculated on dry matter; not more than 0,3 per cent of substances insoluble in hydrochloric acid (0.1) calculated on dry matter, and must not contain contaminants in such quantities as to constitute a health hazard. Food salt may contain certain natural secondary constituents in varying quantities depending on the origin and method of production (e.g. sulphates, carbonates, calcium, potassium, magnesium and sodium bromides, calcium, potassium and magnesium chlorides). Article 5 of that Regulation also lays down the labelling provisions; the following particulars must be given: the sales name (salt name, supplemented by the food specification, for food, cooking or table use), the type of extraction (sea water, underground deposits, natural brine) and the specification of the form of presentation (salt or coarse salt). Recently, the World Health Organisation recommended that the adult population consume sodium chloride less than 5 grams per day (equivalent to 2 grams per day of sodium). The salt produced by generic industrial re-crystallization processes would, according to the information provided, result in a final purity (as a percentage of sodium chloride) of 99,9 per cent compared to a food salt with a purity of at least 97 per cent (less dry matter content provided for in the decree); therefore, a salt with this content would in any case comply, in terms of the title of sodium chloride, with the provisions of Article 3 of the aforementioned decree. In any case, it should be stressed that the diversity of raw materials used makes food salts inevitably available with natural fluctuations in terms of sodium chloride content. Therefore, the hypothetical increase in sodium exposure through the consumption of a food salt with a content exceeding the statutory minimum limit (in any case a maximum additional contribution of 3%) does not appear to be significant. It is also emphasized that the taste of natural salt is related to its composition which, by the nature of the product, may differ both in qualitative terms (for compositional profile) and in terms of concentration. Therefore, it does not seem possible to automatically and objectively correlate the taste of a food salt with its natural composition, however characterized by variability depending on the type of production. Finally, with regard to the problem of recrystallised salt, it is stressed that salt, in order to be intended for food use, must always respect the provisions of the aforementioned decree and that, in any case, food safety must be guaranteed through the control of potential dangers that would arise from different origins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u37	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am only partially satisfied with the Government's response, for a very simple reason. While the first part of the answer acknowledges the legislation, which has been widely cited in the question, it essentially fails to answer on the fundamental issue of recrystallised salt, that is, salt obtained through an industrial process. In fact, even if the industrial treatment for the recrystallization of salt succeeds in obtaining a product that has the parameters of sodium chloride required by law, it nevertheless determines a series of alterations because, in the process of elimination of the sludge, it eliminates a whole series of other substances - including magnesium, sulphate, calcium and potassium - through the chemical reagents that are inherent in the process of processing; thus a fundamentally different substance is produced and that, in some ways, can be considered harmful to health. The fundamental question, in our opinion, is that the current legislation does not provide for correct, complete and complete information to the user citizen, to the consumer. The consumer has the right to know when he buys a package exactly what he is buying, where he originates the product and how the product has been obtained and processed. In practice, I believe that the ministries referred to in the question, in particular the Ministry of Health and that of agricultural policies, must act well to ensure that a correct information companion and, above all, proper labelling avoid distortions as well as potential damage to the health of the citizen.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u38	Following is the question 3-02814 on transport activities related to transplant activities. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u39	With regard to the questions raised by the question in question, it is first mentioned - as also mentioned in the text of the question by Senator Bianconi - that with the State-Regions agreement of 25 March 2015 (review and update of the State-Regions agreement of 21 December 2006) the previous agreement of 2006 has been revised and updated, since the efficiency of the system of the transport of organs, transplant teams and biological materials represents a fundamental component for the proper functioning of the national transplant network and the management of the event "Transplant Donation", which I remember in our country presents this year very positive and growing data compared to the previous year. In fact, over time, the loss of recorded organs was mainly caused by incorrect preservation of the organs or by transport carried out with timings not adapted to the times to maintain the suitability of the organ for transplantation. In particular, the Agreement aims to provide guidance on operational standards for the safe transport of both organs, transplant teams, biological materials and for the conservation, reconditioning and transfer of transplant organs, in order to ensure a uniform and detectable quality level throughout the national territory, as well as a control system and cost containment in this activity. To this end, in order to ensure uniformity on national territory and, therefore, the harmonisation of transport models currently adopted at regional level, the network of the territorial emergency system has been identified as an organisational reference. It should also be noted that the State-Regions Agreement of 25 March 2015 also implements the forecasts of Decree 19 November 2015, which, in implementation of Directive 2010/53/EU on the quality and safety of organs, contains, in Article 10, specific provisions to ensure the integrity of the body during transport, providing for the definition, with State-Regions agreement, of specific operational procedures to ensure the integrity of the body during transport. In particular, the agreement provided the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces with the organizational indications that allow to standardize the model of transport adopted and the technical requirements and operating procedures for packaging, containers, labelling, temperature monitoring and traceability of position and temperature of the organ have been established to ensure the conservation and traceability of the organ (which must be uniquely identified and recognizable from the picking room and up to the transplant room, at each stage of the transfer, including periods of immobility), and ensure the control of the time and the safety of the transport. In addition, the National Transplant Centre is responsible for monitoring the national transport network and for the operational coordination of the same activity. Therefore, given the stringent measures taken with the agreement, with which the standards of quality and safety of the transport of organs have been raised, and considering that the donation-transplantation event is not programmable and must take place quickly and knowing the responsibilities of those who carry out this activity, it does not seem possible to carry out illicit substances by simulating the transport of organs. In addition, as regards measures relating to controls on the transport of organs, in relation to terrorist threats, it is noted that the bodies must, after this agreement, travel in sealed containers and entrusted to an operator, who may be either medical personnel or 118 or flight personnel to whom they are delivered. It seems to us that the facility provided for in that agreement and the controls provided for therein should better guarantee this activity from 2015 onwards.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u42	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, I welcome the work done by the National Transplant Centre in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. This has allowed to reach a greater awareness of Italian citizens for a spontaneous donation of organs to save human lives. I know very well the agreement of the State-Regions Conference which, among other things, has placed us in the European panorama among the first countries and, as a reference point for the type of agreement provided, for the requirements put in place and for the awareness of our ability to network and protect the organ. I referred to the agreement on the specific situation of the organ's traceability. You, at the end of your reply, pointed out that it would be difficult to plan precisely for the unpredictability of the explantation of an organ for a terrorist. In the folds of the impossible is nested also possible, so much so that one of these unpainted casings was used, through an ambulance, for the transport of narcotics. News reports from a few months ago reported it. Starting from the fact that the traceability of the organ, from the moment of the explantation, to the taking charge, to the carrier that carries it, to the operating room of the transplant, is realized through the mechanisms of traceability or the precise chips previewed in the agreement, our worry is that not all the Regions are activated and they are working through these procedures. Therefore, it may also be that 80% of our regions already apply these rules and that, therefore, there is a procedure of maximum security for the body and of countering any kind of wrongdoing. However, it always remains a small bag of regions that are not adapting to standards that, among other things, have been sanctioned and approved by the State-Regions Conference. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for your answer, which has been absolutely relevant and complete, but I would ask you to verify and control the regions that do not comply with legislation that now has more than one year of life. I ask you for the safety of the National Health Service, so that such important organs are not wasted for people's lives, and finally for national security.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u43	Question 3-03109 on the implementation of the plan for the disposal of public buildings follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u44	Mr President, the question put by Senator De Petris concerns the disposal of public buildings in favour of the Fund, the management of abandoned buildings and the way in which they are sold by the Fund. The disposal operation, which started in 2004, involved a portfolio of 396 buildings, belonging to 70 percent of the central government and the remaining 30 percent of the INPS, INAIL and INPDAP social security institutions, and was financially structured into two separate tranches, the first of which was 40% of the total, financed through the issuance of shares; the second, equal to the remaining 60 percent of the total value of the real estate, carried out through a financing contracted by the Fund with a group of banks combined in a consortium. Pursuant to Article 2 of the Ministerial Decree of 9 June 2004 (so-called decree to initiate the operation), the Ministry of Economy and Finance has selected banks and financial institutions with proven experience in the establishment of the aforementioned Real Estate Fund and in the placement of shares issued by the same. These banks and institutions assisted the Ministry of Economy and Finance in the activities related to the establishment of the Fund, including the selection, by public evidence procedure, of Investing Real Estate, as SGR having the management of the Fund. These properties have been transferred (by decree of contribution 23 December 2004 and two interministerial decrees of transfer of equal date, all published in the Official Gazette 28 December 2004, n. 303) to FIP and, at the same time, assigned as lease (on the basis of a contract concluded between the Funds and the State Property Agency) to the administrations that had previously in use them. In the context of the operation described, the State Property Agency has been entrusted with the role of sole conductor. The relationship between the Real Estate Fund and the Agency (as well as between the Agency itself and its assigned administrations) has been regulated on the basis of the provisions contained in the Ministerial Decree of 15 December 2005 (Public Real Estate Fund: Decree of operation) and subsequently transposed by the lease agreement entered into by the State Property Agency with the Fund and by the allocation regulations signed by the same Agency with the various assigning authorities of the real estate. With reference to the specific questions put by the honourable Member, it should first of all be noted that the sale of the property under consideration by the Funds established under Decree-Law No 351 of 25 September 2001 does not affect the objectives of valorisation of the public real estate since they are now owned by private individuals. Among other things, the question criticizes the Fund's choice of a sky-to-land sale instead of a split sale of the various buildings, where the split would have favoured the exercise of the right of option and/or pre-emption by the holders of passive lease units. The property in question, located in Rome, Piazza Augusto Imperatore, is one of those covered by the sale of real estate in favour of the Fund, pursuant to Decree-Law of 25 September 2001, n. 351. The Closed Real Estate Fund (FIP) was established in implementation of Article 4 of Decree-Law No 351 of 25 September 2001 in the framework of a sale-off of public buildings (for use other than residential) structured according to the so-called sale and lease back scheme. Pursuant to the following Ministerial Decree of 9 June 2004 (the so-called and already mentioned "start-up decree" of the operation), the Ministry of Economy and Finance has selected banks and financial institutions with proven experience in the establishment of the aforementioned Real Estate Fund and in the placement of shares issued by the same. These banks and institutions assisted the Ministry of Economy and Finance in the activities related to the establishment of the fund, including the selection, by public evidence procedure, of "Investing real estate." These properties, owned by the State and some public bodies (INPS, INPDAP, INAIL), were sold to the administrations that had previously used them. Therefore, the State Property Agency is the sole conductor of all the buildings of the FIP Compendium, while the user administrations sign with that Agency the assignment regulations, which reproduce the obligations imposed on the Agency by virtue of the lease agreement signed by the same. In accordance with Article 17 of the lease, in the case of sales of individual properties by FIP, the right of first offer in favour of the State Property Agency is provided that, either for itself or on behalf of the user administrations concerned, it will be able to buy the property back with pre-emption compared to possible third-party buyers. Moreover, with regard to the alleged ownership of a right of pre-emption and/or option, pursuant to Article 3 of the most frequently cited Decree-Law No 351 of 2001, it is evident that this claim cannot be founded in the present case, since: first, all the buildings of the FIP Compendium, including those burdened by a bond of cultural interest (including the property of Rome, Piazza Augusto Imperatore, the subject of one of the questions of the question), which fall within the interministerial decree of 23 December 2004, were made or transferred through a so-called block sale, pursuant to Article 4 of Decree-Law No 351 of 2001; moreover, the provision of the right of option-pre-emption in favour of the holder, referred to in Article 3 (and not 4), refers to the cases of privatisation through the transfer of property to a vehicle company. The present case, however, as we have pointed out, concerns the disposal of real estate to mutual investment funds, regulated in accordance with Article 4. The two forms of privatisation are in fact quite different: the sale of real estate to special purpose vehicles (ex Article 3) complements a cumulative sale hypothesis, without prejudice to the right of option and subsequent pre-emption in favour of the holders (subsidiary and non-subsidiary). In the past, ministerial decrees have been issued for this type of dismissal, which in detail have governed the procedures for exercising the option and pre-emption in favour of the conductors. In the disposal of a real estate fund constituted by the State (ex Article 4), the transaction is more complex and the sale is structured as a so-called block sale. Therefore, in accordance with the legal guidelines on these types of sales, a right of option-pre-emption in favour of previous holders cannot be exercised for any type of property. This is because: firstly, the sole holder of the entire compendium is, ex lege, the State Property Agency; secondly, only the Agency, when the individual building will be put up for sale by the fund (and therefore it may be granted autonomy other than the entire transfer), can exercise the right of pre-emption directly or indirectly (for itself or on behalf of another administration user of the property put up for sale), as provided for in the so-called transaction decree, previously mentioned, and in the lease agreement between the State Property Agency and FIP. In the case of the property in Rome, located in Piazza Augusto Imperatore, the owners mentioned in the question (the restaurant "Gusto" and the shop "Dentice"), therefore did not have a right of option-legal pre-emption at the time of the sale of the property in favor of the fund, and they do not have it today that the fund has put the property for sale, being sub-conductors with respect to the contract entered into with the State Property Agency. It should also be noted that, contrary to what the honourable Member has said, the sale transactions carried out by the Public Real Estate Funds do not provide for any type of prior concerted assessment with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, with regard to the actual opportunity or method of selling a particular property, since the Fund is a private entity which will act in the interest of the quotists. In addition, real estate, once transferred to the Funds, becomes private property of the Funds and as a result sales do not affect, as mentioned, the achievement of the objectives of valorization of the real estate or the balance of public finances. And again, one of the institutional tasks of Directorate VIII of the Treasury Department is the management of activities related to and instrumental to operations for the valorization and disposal of real estate, within the framework of the real estate funds established pursuant to Article 4 of Law No 410 of 2001, but in such activities it is in no way part of the monitoring on the timing of the disposals carried out by the Real Estate Funds in favour of third parties buyers except for the contractual commitments entered into under the responsibility of the State Property Agency or at the expense of the Ministry itself. Finally, as regards activities aimed at minimizing the negative impacts of the aforementioned operation started in 2004, it is added that, within the framework of the activity of the State Property Agency, there is the possibility to withdraw from the lease for individual properties, thus reducing the total passive expenditure of the Compendium granted to the Funds. However, this withdrawal is contractually limited to a number of real estate whose rents amount to a total of 20 per cent of the total rental fee for the FIP, and 10 per cent for the Heritage Fund 1. The Agency, according to the planning carried out so far, aimed at an active management of minimizing negative impacts on the profit and loss account of the State, has basically exhausted the aforementioned withdrawal rates available, having now exercised 19.62 percent of the FIP fee and 8.40 percent of that FP1, compared to the ceiling of 10 percent. And the recesses for the small number of properties, already identified, to which the residual (now very low) withdrawal percentage was applicable, are already in progress: more precisely, a 0.8% for the FIP and a 1.60 percent for the Heritage Fund 1. Finally, it is also pointed out that the Agency, in view of the expiry of the leases with the Funds (December 2022 for the FIP and December 2023 for the Fund of Assets 1) is preparing, in agreement with all public administrations using the buildings and on the indication of the Treasury Department, an action plan aimed at the release of all the buildings within a year from the aforementioned contractual deadlines, always in order to reduce public expenditure on rent liabilities. However, the definition of this plan is characterised by the need to identify alternative allocative solutions for all user offices, including those with particular ubicational, dimensional and plant needs, such as to make "strategic" the properties owned by the Funds currently in use, and therefore potentially not releaseable. The provisional number of such "strategic" buildings, variable according to the interlocations in progress with the various public administrations, is currently equal to 113 buildings out of a total of 341 leased in the first half of 2016.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u47	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, of course I am not at all satisfied with the response of Deputy Minister Zanetti. In addition, Mr Calderoli, you will remember the great debate in this House about Law No 410 of 2001 and the whole securitisation operation. However, this operation, which was divided into different stages, had done so, even through the work of this House, that the right of option was very clear in the law. This right, at the very beginning in this Senate Chamber, was introduced, not only for private conductors, when sold in bulk, but also for commercial businesses. This is all the more so in the historic centres, since this question concerns Rome, where the two buildings which are the subject of the question are located, but also in other areas. Because, Mr Vice-Minister, at the end of the reading of the long answer, there is one point that is not very clear, and it is better to recapitulate it. These properties, which belonged to INPS and INPDAP, are given, within the FIP, under compulsory lease to the Revenue Agency, which has no offices in there. It was the type of operation related to the so-called "decree operation." Beyond the specific story, the question I ask is that in the meantime perhaps it is time to take stock from the point of view of revenue and resources, because it is an incredible fact: it is as if I own a house, I live there, at a certain point I decide to sell it, I give it to a friend and then I am obliged to pay him the rent. In short, at the end of this whole operation, which I believe should have had an important impact in contributing to the consolidation of public finances, perhaps it is time to take stock and consider what actually came in and what the benefits were. Specifically, the concern remains - and on this I insist, because I am not satisfied - for the fact that this has produced and is producing within the historic center of Rome, the eviction of a series of activities that were historical and this has led to a degradation of many parts of our historical center, while it was public interest to take action to ensure that the option could be exercised, even in the case of the sale in bulk, perhaps through the Agency of revenues, to maintain the activities in that area. Unfortunately the evictions occurred in a massive way throughout the area, leading to desertification so today, instead of locals and historical workshops, we find locals and activities that have a very negative impact on the cultural and historical fabric of the city.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u48	The following question 3-0030 on the work on the variant of Aurelia in the sections of Livorno and Cecina. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u49	Mr President, in relation to the questions put by the honourable Member, the company ANAS reports that the ongoing work on the Aurelia variant in the sections of Livorno and Cecina Sud is part of the "bastabuchesullestrade" operation, with which the company has launched a large project of extraordinary maintenance of the road network of competence throughout the national territory. In particular, for the state road No. 1 Aurelia, seven deep paving works were planned in a first tranche, with stabilisation of the road foundation of the running lane and subsequent reconstruction of the bituminous package for the entire roadway, with a draining carpet. In the context of the intense activities started with the resources made available in the 2015 program contract, the following interventions have been completed: the first, started last June, covered the section included from km 238 to km 240 on the north track in the Municipality of Piombino, between the junctions of Riotorto and Venturina, with opening to traffic on 2 July 2016; the second, started again in the last month of June, was carried out from km 208 to km 210, on the south track in the Municipality of Grosseto, between the junctions of Gavorrano and Giuncarico, with opening to traffic on the following 15 July; the third, from km 265 to km 268 on the north track in the Municipality of Castagneto Carducci, between the junctions of Donoratico and Cecina Sud, was started on 11 July 2016 and the performance of the road paving work allowed the complete removal of the yard on the following 21 July. In this section, in fact, the priority measures to ensure the necessary conditions for safety and travelability of the artery have been completed, the circulation on both lanes available for the two roadways has been restored, keeping, only on the north track, from km 266 to km 268, the speed limitation of 50 kilometers per hour. The interventions of completion concerning the laying of the draining carpet have been postponed in order to facilitate the flows of traffic of the summer period, in accordance with what desired from the council member to the infrastructures of the Tuscany Region and demanded from the Municipalities of Cecina, Bibbona, Castagneto Carducci and San Vincenzo; the completion is previewed for next 23 september. Anas also provided the following information on the remaining four interventions. The fourth intervention covered the distance between km 315+790 and km 318+100, on the north track in the municipality of Livorno. The works, between the section from kilometer 315+790 and kilometer 317+319, begun on 18 July last, were suspended the following 21 July with reopening to the traffic on both carriageways; these operations were, therefore, resumed last 5 September and completed on 9, the date from which the section was reopened to transit. From next 28 September to 6 October 2016, the aforementioned intervention is expected to be extended to km 318+950, with the only partialization of the roadway. The fifth concerns the stretch between km 217+900 and km 219+500 on the north track in the municipality of Scarlino, between the junctions of Gavorrano and Scarlino; the works began on September 5, with completion expected within the current month. The sixth one will cover the stretch between km 281 and km 283+590, on the north track in the Municipality of Cecina, between the junction of Cecina Centro and the barrier of the Casello of Rosignano of the Highway SAT; the work will begin on 1 October, with completion scheduled for 21 of the same month. The seventh and last intervention will cover the stretch between km 259+900 and km 261, on the north track in the municipality of San Vincenzo, between the junctions of Donoratico and Cecina Sud; the works will begin on the next 24 October with completion scheduled for the following day 28. A further intervention has also been activated that will cover the renovation of the pavement in the stretch between kilometer 188+300 and kilometer 191+400, on the north track in the Municipality of Grosseto, between the junctions of Grosseto Nord and Montepescali; the works will start on 19 of this month and will be completed on 7 October. Finally, since October there are plans to restore the damaged pavement on the ramps of the junctions of Cecina Nord, Cecina Centro, Cecina Sud-la California and Donoratico in the Municipality of Castagneto Carducci and in occasional stretches between kilometer 300 and kilometer 306 and between kilometer 170 and 222 of the highway n. 1 Aurelia, with always expected completion by October 2016.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u52	FILIPPI (PD). Mr Undersecretary, I have no difficulty in admitting that the act in question was, in some respects, very singular. Firstly, because it was at least abnormal to have submitted an inspection act on the basis of the start-up of work sites, when it is normally inveterated practice that it is the lack of their start-up that is the prerequisite. Secondly, I understand that it was singular to have wanted to maintain the inspection act, namely the question, despite the fact that it had already had its effect, inducing the change in an attitude on the part of the director of the work which had ended up - this is the true problem of the situation that had arisen. All this allows me to thank you, as well as for the timely activation of the ministerial structure and the ANAS, also for the readiness with which you have come to account in Parliament. However, despite the appreciation also for the detailed work that has been being carried out from the point of view of ANAS's maintenance interventions, I believe that the issue raised has not been at all peregrine and that it maintains its topicality from the methodological point of view and probably - I dare say - procedures to be envisaged. The case in question - but, more generally, similar cases - concerns the start of significant and important extraordinary maintenance works such as those on state roads - in the specific case, Aurelia - which, with their crossing of some municipalities (in the case of the Province of Livorno, coastal municipalities), in fact constitute the only sliding artery. The strong and, in some respects, inevitable limitation of the road for planned work risked, in the specific case, to compromise the activity of many economic operators and seasonal workers; more generally, of course, it gives rise to inconveniences not always justified and justifiable to the population, especially at a time of particular tourist intensity, as in the case indicated by you. The question arises, precisely, from a difficulty of intercourse with the person responsible for the activation of the work. I have to say that it surprised everyone, he saw the inevitable involvement of the regional councilor, which he called for, and he pointed to a situation of real difficulty even on the part of the same perfect. The embarrassment arose, precisely, from the obstinacy, certainly in a first phase, in wanting to maintain an intervention that reasonably did not have the conditions of emergency and urgency and for which a reason of seasonality was encamped. I'm gonna stop right here. I believe that the function of the question - if I can afford to attribute a function that goes beyond the answer given by the Government, for which I thank you - was above all to directly stimulate the Government, indirectly the ANAS and, in general, the public enterprises with regard to the need to structure procedures of intervention more adequate and more respectful of the role of the local institutions and to call for greater attention to the sensibilities and economic needs of a territory and a community that, at a time such as the current one, in which a serious economic crisis persists, are certainly interested in the realization of the intervention, but certainly not to pay a price definitely excessive. However, I would like to thank you for the very comprehensive reply and for the update on the state of play of the work in progress.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u53	Following is the question 3-03114 on the calibration of speed detection instruments. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u54	Mr President, with regard to the questions asked, the technical offices of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport make it clear, in advance, that periodic checks and the possible calibration of the devices for the detection of violations at maximum speed limits are already planned, with a different regime depending on whether they are used in an automatic way that is not controlled or under the direct control of the police. In the first case, since 2004, the year of the first approvals of fully automatic devices to be used without police supervision, periodic checks have been scheduled at least annually, as reported in the approval decrees and in the manuals of use; while for the devices managed directly by the police operators the controls to be carried out are provided in the manuals of use and maintenance. Following the decision of the Constitutional Court No 113 of 18 June 2015, it is necessary to amend Article 45 (6) of the current Road Code, in the sense indicated by the Court itself. In fact, the competent offices of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, precisely for the purpose of adapting to the aforementioned judgment, are carrying out a research and deepening activity in order to provide for the obligation, through a special ministerial decree, of periodic checks and inspections for the devices directly managed by the road police bodies, as for those totally automatic, in order to standardize the procedures. Regarding the correct use of speed detectors, the Ministry of Interior, which coordinates the road police services by anyone carried out pursuant to Article 11 of the Road Code, reports that it has long been paying considerable attention to the issue of the full and continuous functionality of such equipment, already in epochs before the cited judgment n. 113 of the Consulta. In fact, the competent central direction of the Department of Public Safety has provided specific directives on the subject to the territorial units of the road police service. In particular, with the circular of 13 December 2013, issued jointly with the Directorate-General for Road Safety of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, even in the absence of a general calibration obligation, it has been reiterated the need, for the road police bodies interested in the use of equipment for the verification and compliance of speed limits, to comply with the procedures of installation and use provided for in the user manuals and, therefore, also the obligation of periodic verification of the equipment under consideration. The Ministry of the Interior also states that verification, as a rule, is required in the approval decree of the individual apparatus, if this is intended to be used completely automatically, i.e. without the presence of a road police operator. With regard to equipment intended to be used exclusively with the presence and under the direct control of a road police operator, the Central Directorate of the Court of Justice, with a circular dated 26 June 2015, in order to allow compliance with the principles set out by the Constitutional Court, invited the territorial units not to use the aforementioned equipment, unless they have been subject to periodic verification of functionality. In this respect, there is an obligation to specify that generally the approval decrees do not provide for a periodic verification of functionality for the latter type of equipment. This is because they are equipped with fault self-diagnosis systems and its functionality can be verified by the operator himself before starting the control activity; these are in particular devices called Telelaser (in all versions) and Provide. As regards specifically the Province of Padua, the road police compartment for Veneto reported that, after the aforementioned judgment, all equipment in use at its territorial structures for the detection of violations at speed limits were stopped and sent to a centre accredited by the National Calibration System. As for the eight speed cameras supplied to the Municipality of Padova, the local administration has communicated that for the same they are previewed by contract an annual ordinary maintenance of calibration, certification of the system and technical monitoring.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u57	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr Undersecretary, I am not satisfied, not only because the answer comes after more than a year, but because, as you yourself admit, there are speeches to be made and you are working on it. But, you see, the safety of people in road traffic is one of the primary aims pursued by the State: this is stated in Article 1 (1) of the road code. That is, the law prescribes, also in the following text and in the following regulations, that fixed speed cameras must be installed in order to guarantee safety on critical roads and with particular frequency of accidents and where it is documented the impossibility or difficulty to proceed to the immediate contestation. We therefore need a study that includes the exact location of the section, its accurate description (with photographic documentation, drawings, plans and plans), traffic data (how and how many vehicles transit), the number of casualties in the last five years (with what consequences and what causes presumable) and any operational difficulties in proceeding with the immediate dispute. Then you need the opinion of the road-owner about the technical compatibility of the installation with the fluidity of the traffic and the safety of the circulation. The prefect, at this point, evaluates the existence of the adequacy of the acts and identifies where it is actually possible to install speed cameras. Then we need a number of other conditions. In order to protect the citizen, the guarantees concerning the correct type-approval, authorization, installation according to standard and the regular calibration and maintenance must be respected. We add that the speed cameras must also be visible and correctly reported, otherwise they are not used to make safety. The citizen who sees a device at the last moment will certainly have a fine, but there will be no preventive effect on safety, in fact, you can induce abrupt braking with the consequences of the case. If not all these conditions are not justified, the speed cameras are not justified and the doubt is confirmed that their installation is not aimed at safety. However, the central question I want to put to you is: who controls the correctness of all these passages? We see a huge number of appeals reported in the press. They're all gonna be pretentious. They're all gonna be instrumental? I have easily collected dozens of appeals won by citizens who arrive at the Constitutional Court and detailed judgments certify our doubts as to whether the regularity of the use of these devices is watering water on all sides. You yourself said that in the Province of Padua they were all withdrawn and sent to control. Well, the consequences are very heavy, because the state has cut the funds to local authorities and the citizen has the clear impression that in return he has provided a means of cashing out resulting in a far west abuse. We deduce it from the same law when it prescribes that half of the sanctions must be invested in order to improve safety - I emphasize: half - by modernising the signs, installing safer guard rails and anything else but the rest goes to cash and this seems to be the main objective. How much damage and how many deaths and injuries do we have to blame for the pursuit of the purpose of drawing money in a surreptitious way, sacrificing the issue of security? Then there are other issues: how much do we clogged our courts because of this far west? Businesses, which see the slowness of the judicial system as a brake on development, are putting us back on the ground. And then resorting costs money. For a citizen who goes all the way and can afford it, there are others who give up and pay for it. It should, in our view, be the State, its Dicastery, which guarantees the regularity of this system, and instead justice and legal certainty must be paid privately by the citizens. Only through their actions have we discovered what and how many instruments were illegitimate and ineffective. So, for all the reports we receive, Mr Undersecretary, for the appeal of so many organizations for the protection of citizens, I asked you, as a Member of the 5 Star Movement, for a technical table. I asked for it as a matter of urgency, because we have a lot of checks to ask, well beyond those on which it gave us partial assurances, and also a lot of solutions to propose. We didn't get an answer. I repeat: we did not have an answer. Then I renew the invitation, here, to the citizens who see us from home, and I remind you that where security is placed in the background, the law is broken and we are responsible for the resulting mourning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u58	Following is the question 3-03115 on the management of the A18 and A20 motorway routes by the Consortium for the Sicilian motorways. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u59	Mr President, first I must say that the management of the Al8 (Messina-Catania and Siracusa-Gela) and A20 (Messina-Palermo) motorways is entrusted in concession to the Consortium for the Sicilian motorways (CAS), pursuant to the agreement concluded on 27 November 2000 with ANAS SpA. Subsequently, pursuant to the combined provisions of article 11, paragraph 5, of decree-law n. 216 of 2011, and related law of conversion, and article 36, paragraph 4, of decree-law n 98 of 2011, and related law of conversion, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has taken over the functions of grantor ANAS for all agreements of concession, construction and management of the highways in existence on the aforementioned date, including also the aforementioned convention with the CAS. With regard to the initiatives to verify the presence of serious failures by the CAS dealer, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is aware of the critical issues raised by the questioner and, as is well known, has already started a procedure of contest against the CAS for serious failures to the convention. This procedure ended with interministerial decree No 457 of 5 July 2010, which ordered the forfeiture of the concession absent from the CAS. However, this measure was declared void by judgment of the Administrative Justice Council in 2011. In the meantime, the competent offices of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport have continued in their activities of verification and control of the work of the Consortium provided for by the Convention, continuing to contest to the same the multiple "non-compliances" periodically recorded on the managed highways, through the activity of inspection by the competent territorial office. In relation to this, a further formal dispute procedure was launched in January 2013 for the failure to comply, both of a technical and administrative nature, with regard to the five-year period 2009-2013. The dispute procedure was subsequently formalized on 4 December 2014 with an act of warning and notice for a new decision of revocation of the concession. Following the counter-deductions put forward by the Consortium, the same have been rejected and, to date, the relative investigation is in the final phase, which can produce a new disposition of decadence. In addition to such formal contestation and for facts subsequent to the initiation of the same, the Ministry of Infrastructures and the transports, also for the purpose of the recognition of the tariff adjustment, has ulteriorly advanced to the CAS contests for failures of technical and administrative nature, to 30 June of the year 2014 (relative to the year 2013), to 30 June of the year 2015 (related to the year 2014) and, last, to 30 June 2016 (related to the year 2015), providing which term for the counterdeductions twenty days, within which the Consortium has not replied, for which the Ministry of Infrastructures and the transports will proceed to the measures of the case. As regards the above, during the annual adjustment of the motorway tariffs, which are investigated by the Directorate-General for the Supervision of Motorway Concessions, no tariff increase has been granted to the CAS since 2007, precisely because of the above administrative and accounting failures. Finally, I would point out that the DAC has joined the initiative and applies the discounts for commuters regulated by the Memorandum of Understanding with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, according to which, from February and until 31 December 2016, the tariff concession for commuters is allowed equal to 20%. As regards the incidents of the claims complained of by the honourable Member, for the event in the Battaglia gallery, the competent office in Catania carried out its verification activities at the time of the events (April 2014). As for the incident within the tunnel Buonfornello, which insists on a road section under ANAS management, the same company reports to have carried out its verification activities at the time of the facts, ascertaining the absence of anomalies connected to the electrical system present in the tunnel and adds, for information only, that also the Regional Agency for the protection of the environment - ARPA Sicily has carried out investigations on the presence of electromagnetic fields within the aforementioned tunnel, without however detecting abnormal values compared to the average. With regard to the lack of adequate tunnel safety systems, I would point out that the Standing Committee on Tunnels, which is responsible for implementing Directive 2044/54/EC on safety for tunnels in the trans-European motorway network, has also shown that there is no compliance with minimum safety requirements, pursuant to Legislative Decree No 264 of 2006, for all 40 tunnels over 500 metres of the network operated by the DAC in relation to the specific conditions recognised during the inspections carried out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u62	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, in fact, the key words are of LaPalissan clarity: serious failure, criticality, mistrust and decadence. That's what this is about. We are counting on the absolute criticality of the system managed by the Consortium for the Sicilian motorways (CAS). In particular, we are aware of the bad practices and poor management of the A18 and A20 motorways. We do not remain, taking note of the awareness just testified by the Undersecretary, that to urge the Government to carry out in absolutely rapid times all the necessary requirements in order to get to the termination of all the contracts in existence, to the decadence and to summarize in the ownership and the power of the Ministry, and consequently, of the ANAS, of these important sections of highways.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u63	The following question 3-03116 on the reopening of the Caronia junction on the Messina-Palermo motorway. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u64	Mr President, in confirming what I have said in the previous act of Senator Mancuso on the competence in the management of the A18 Messina-Catania and Siracusa-Gela and A20 Messina-Palermo motorways, I respond with regard to the junction of Caronia, also known as Furiano, placed at the kilometer 113+500 of the A20 Messina-Palermo, which was originally foreseen as a temporary exit, following the realization of the Sant'Agata stretch of Militello-Furiano. The semi-drain, opened since 2002, provided for the access and exit ramps in the direction and origin of Messina. The barrier was built with elements and plants that were expected to be re-used in the construction stations of the next section of Sant'Agata Militello-Cefalù, demonstrating that it was a work that had not featured in order to constitute a definitive work. The temporary exit of Caronia was built only to allow the exit and entry on the highway to and from Messina. The director for Palermo was under construction. In March 2005 the entire route Furiano-Castelbuono was completed and opened to traffic in both directions and at the same time the junction of Santo Stefano di Camastra was made operational, 21,18 kilometres away from the temporary junction of Caronia. Consequently, in September 2007, in conjunction with the activation of the systems of exation of the aforementioned Furiano-Castelbuono trait, the semi-vincolo of Caronia was definitively closed by the CAS dealer and subsequently dismantled the temporary barrier of exemption of the toll. To date, due to the lack of maintenance due to non-use, the semi-drainage of Caronia has conditions of degradation and its reopening would require the construction of a new extraction station and its installations (lighting, video surveillance and so on), as well as an adaptation to the current legislation, also considering that the access ramp in the direction of Messina is located at the current lane of overtaking of the motorway road Palermo-Messina. Finally, according to the concessionaire, the catchment area that could be affected by this new reality would be quantitatively limited and not to justify the construction of the new plants.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u67	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr Secretary, thank you for your reply, but I must immediately clarify that it seems rather imprecise. Meanwhile, I must remind you that the junction of Caronia, about which we have spoken, is located between the exits of Santo Stefano di Camastra and Sant'Agata di Militello, which are separated by 30 kilometers of motorway path. It is therefore not a section of the motorway affected by numerous junctions, because in that part of the motorway there are absolutely few junctions. It must also be considered that the exit of Caronia allows those who want to enter the Nebrodi Park (one of the most important parks of Sicily and I believe of the whole South) to access more easily some routes and routes of that protected area. This junction would therefore lead to a better use of these places, which are among other things of rare beauty and absolutely suggestive from the naturalistic point of view. These are places that are the destination of many visitors and therefore also the motivation given by the Consortium for the Sicilian highways (CAS) of the scarce catchment area does not convince us, because it is a response that takes into account the residents, but not all users and, in particular, the potential of the tourist development of that territory. In the context of a review of the relations between ANAS, the Ministry and CAS, I would like to refer also to the previous question and, therefore, to a possible termination of all existing contracts, a rethink that can lead to the reopening of that release which, moreover, already exists, as you rightly said, and which must only be rehabilitated.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u68	Following are the question 2-00284 and the question 3-03118 on the situation of public order in Carovigno, in the province of Brindisi. I call Senator Zizza to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u69	Mr President, I would like to point out that these are questions and questions which were tabled a year and a half ago and that the situation has changed completely at the moment. This does not mean that the solicitation of the undersigned to the Ministry still remains valid, because the increase of the Forces of the order and the greater funds for the video surveillance remain very important. The prefectures have made rankings to make the funds available for video surveillance. These rankings, according to my point of view and others, have not been made according to the real needs of a territory that I want to specify, during the summer reaches, with its 20 kilometers of coast, between the 50,000 and the 80,000 inhabitants and, above all, 300,000-400.000 tourist presences. For this area, together with the Alto Salento (the connection is with important cities such as Ostuni, Fasano, the same Brindisi and the protected marine area of Torre Guaceto) it is important that there are funds available, because the system of video surveillance is fundamental to prevent theft and robbery. Moreover, many tourists come here from all over Europe and it is essential to give security to people who have made important investments in our territory. The question was addressed to ask for funds for video surveillance and that the rankings made by the prefecture long ago should be revised as soon as possible to make new funds available.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u70	The representative of the Government has the right to respond jointly to the question and the question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u71	Mr President, with the acts of inspection union on the agenda, Senator Zizza, in placing the situation regarding order and public security in the Municipality of Carovigno to the attention of the Minister of the Interior, calls for the adoption of initiatives aimed at supporting the action of the Forces of the Order. In particular, interventions are required for the realization of a system of video surveillance and the strengthening of the control services of the company of the carabinieri of San Vito dei Normanni and the station of the carabinieri of Carovigno. It must first be noted that all the provincial territory - not only the Carovignese one - goes through a phase of effervescence from the social, economic and occupational point of view with potential repercussions on the order and on the public safety, which obviously the Ministry is aware of. In particular, the context of the Municipality of Carovigno is characterized by a certain liveliness of the phenomena of micro-criminality, in particular of crimes against the heritage, in a framework characterized by a generalized negativity of the economic conditions and the lack of concrete opportunities for development, factors that contribute to creating ever wider bands of social and economic discomfort. In this context, there have also been some incidents of damage and fire to members of the former municipal administration (renewed during the administrative consultations of May 2015), on which the info-investigative activity, coordinated by the judicial authority, was started in good time, although there is sometimes a lack of collaboration from the victims. I would add that there have been no cases of resignation of local administrators possibly due to intimidation. Following the events mentioned, specific inter-force coordination meetings were held at the prefecture of Brindisi in order to gain a complete picture of the elements useful for the reading of what happened. In these fora, in addition to a thorough examination and monitoring of each phenomenon, targeted prevention and repression strategies have been identified, developed through a multiplicity of coordinated actions, for an effective and adequate prevention and contrasting activity responding to the needs of the territory. An analysis of the course of crime shows that crimes committed are only partially attributable to local crime. And indeed according to the investigative findings of the Arma dei Carabinieri has been detected the presence of criminals from neighboring municipalities, which, facilitated by the excellent road network and the vastness of the sparsely populated countryside and characterized by numerous uninhabited villas for the majority of the year prefer the municipal territory of Carovigno to consume crimes against the heritage. In this context, although recent statistics relating to the first half of this year, compared with the same period last year, have shown a significant decline in criminal phenomena, the level of attention on the territory of Carovigno remains high, whose important issues have been examined, even recently, during interforce coordination meetings. In particular, on 18 July last, in order to have a more up-to-date picture of the situation, the prefect convened a meeting of the Committee for Public Order and Security at the headquarters of the municipal palace of Carovigno. In this context, on the one hand, there has been an impetus for targeted police services under the coordinated control plan for the territory, on the other hand, with a view to participating security, there has been no lack of encouragement for the cooperation of the municipal police. In this regard, I inform you that the municipal administration for the summer has ensured its commitment to promote organizational measures aimed at increasing local police units with fixed-term recruitment, also in order to free resources that can contribute, within the framework of its own competences, to the coordinated control of the territory. As for the presence of the Forces of the order on the municipal territory, the station of the carabinieri of Carovigno records an effective staff of twelve units, considered adapted to the requirements of order and public security of the territory, also because the relationship carabinieri-inhabitants turns out in line with the national data and more favorable regarding the regional data. On a more general level, I represent for completeness that the total security device present at provincial level consists of 1,651 personnel units, of which 512 units belong to the State Police, 538 military of the Carabinieri Army and 601 personnel units belonging to the Finance Guard. Finally, with regard to the technological equipment for video surveillance, I note that the entire area of the historic centre of the Municipality in question has been equipped with a video surveillance system financed recently with funds from the previous National Operational Programme security. There is the understanding, after obtaining further funding, to implement the device with the installation, even in the areas of access to the country, of additional video surveillance points that, besides being a deterrent, are obviously a valid support for the investigative activity of the Forces of the order. I assure you, in conclusion, that the situation of security and public order in Carovigno is continuously monitored also by the Ministry and is the subject of constant attention by the provincial authorities of public security and police forces, who will not fail to take, if necessary, any appropriate measures aimed at making even more effective the current mechanisms of control of the territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u74	ZIZA (CoR). Mr. Undersecretary, I want to thank you for your answer. However, what I have noticed remains. Also the presence, in the last period, of several extra-Community, involves a shortage of men made available on the occasion of the arrival of these ships, whose occupants are then distributed in the various municipalities. There are complaints on the part of the law enforcement agencies that these soldiers are also engaged in such services. So, I ask if the Government can assess, even on the basis of these new requirements, the possibility of providing more men and more means to the whole territory of Upper Salento, where the tourist presences are now reaching really positive numbers. It is a shame, therefore, for entrepreneurs, for the whole territory and especially for the many people who work in the sector, not to have the opportunity to give security to tourists who are now an important source of income for all of us.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u75	Following is the question 3-02082 on cases of suicide within the Forces of the Order. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u76	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Crimi requires a series of data on the phenomenon of suicides among members of the police and municipal police, with reference to the period from 2009 to 2014. As regards the State Police, 62 suicides were reported during the period under review, of which three were female personnel. The average age of the subjects involved is forty-four years. With regard to the modalities, in 50 cases the order gun was used, in four cases another type of weapon, while the remaining eight events had run with other dynamics. As for the Carabinieri's weapon, 92 events were recorded during the same reference period, of which only one concerned a woman. The gun was used in 80 cases. The average age of the subjects involved varies between about thirty-nine years in 2014 and about forty-four years in 2012. The figure reported to the Finance Guard is 45 cases of suicide involving only male personnel, with an average age of about forty - four years. In 41 cases the weapon of order was used, in 4 cases the event occurred in different ways. There were 47 events in the prison police force, all involving male personnel. With regard to the modalities, 30 suicides occurred with an order weapon and two with a personal weapon, while the other 15 cases had different dynamics. The average age of the subjects involved is about forty-three years. With reference to the State Forestry Corps, eight suicides were found, of which six were men and two women, all executed with the weapon of ordinance. The average age of the subjects involved is once again forty-four years. Finally, I report that the Ministry of the Interior does not have data on the incidence of the phenomenon in the local police bodies, because these data do not flow to the Ministry of the Interior. With a view to a correct reading of the data I have just provided, I would like to point out that improving the working and living conditions of police personnel is one of the priority objectives of the respective departments. With regard to this Administration, I point out, as a demonstration of the attention given to the topic, that for several years the Central Health Directorate of the Department of Public Safety has activated numerous initiatives in the matter of the prevention and management of psychic discomfort in the staff of the State Police and of support in occasion of critical events and with high emotional impact also not related to service activities. In this context, the aforementioned Central Directorate, also using the collaboration of university teachers and experts in the field, constantly monitors and analyzes the phenomenon. The examination of the acquired data does not show a numerical increase in suicides, but a discontinuous development, while the assessment of the individual cases excludes that the events in question are due to problems of working discomfort or in any case to critical situations related to the activity carried out. I also represent that a document is being prepared, the result of a systematic study of this problem, which will provide all the details and identify further initiatives aimed at preventing the phenomenon in the framework of the State Police. The preliminary findings of this study do not provide - at least to the state - elements of alarm. Finally, the Ministry of Justice has had to specify that a special space has been dedicated to the theme of the well-being of prison police personnel in the context of the articulated initiative of the General States on criminal execution; well-being to be achieved through the strengthening of dynamic surveillance and the valorization of personnel and its training.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u79	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for finally having these figures after more than a year: they were numbers. That was, in tendentially, the question's request; nothing else was asked, simply about the numbers that it is difficult to find. There are associations that make huge efforts, rely on public data - those found in the press - to gather this information and to understand something more. However, it is not satisfactory for the administration itself to look for possible causes or connections. Making the data public, making it available outside, to researchers or other subjects who can carry out in-depth studies, makes it possible for the result to be more objective. In fact, that you tell me that there is no correlation with the work done by the police depends on the fact that you always seek correlation in the specific event, when in reality there is an accumulated stress and sometimes it is not possible to identify situations of stress or criticality related to events that may seem ordinary. Just imagine a local police or traffic police officer who has to intervene in a car accident in which one of the victims is a child of similar age to that of a child who is at home. Apparently it seems like an ordinary intervention, but imagine what can be the emotional consequence for that person and what he takes home, where he then finds his son, and what can happen. Perhaps the relationship between the activity carried out and sometimes the consequences should not be underestimated. The average of suicides within the Forces of Order is twice the national average of suicides, if calculated in percentage terms. The use of the weapon, even the habit of using it, the ease with which they can find a weapon is another element that can facilitate. Then we must consider tragedy, because perhaps suicide attempts are few, because in most cases using the weapon of service unfortunately these attempts all have this tragic end. We also believe that internal psychological support is not enough. This too is another element that should be explored further. We cannot overlap the figure of the evaluator with that of those who make psychological support, because we know well that when you go to denounce a state of mind, an emotional state that can have a triggering cause for tragic effects, you are not free to speak, to be helped by those who know that then or at the same time you will have to assess whether at that time a person is suitable to return to service. This is another aspect to consider. It would be appropriate to set up an observatory on this phenomenon, which should not be underestimated. Unfortunately it has always been taken under the leg and it has always been thought that there was no relationship, because one considers the individual fact, individual, it is considered whether it happened following a specific critical event, forgetting that the subjects who make this gesture are often at the end of a process of decay. It is true that suicides are among the most difficult gestures to psychologically explain, but in any case the Forces of the Order and the Armed Forces - because the phenomenon also concerns the Armed Forces - cannot fail to consider the care of their own personnel, which must not only give the best conditions, but must also concern the continuous assistance and the guarantee that the opening and the taking care is not then the subject of evaluation of non fitness or anything in the immediate. There are doctors who can put a person back in place in fifteen days, with a certain path or path, but if that person knows that the doctor is also the one who will have to evaluate him will hardly make sure that he can help him.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u80	Following is the question 3-02751 on the appointment of the top management of the company ASM Voghera SpA by the Municipality of Voghera, in the province of Pavia. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u81	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Davico, in recalling the events that led to the partial annulment of the local elections for the office of mayor of Voghera in May-June 2015, raises doubts about the work of the prefectial commissioner temporarily placed at the head of the municipal administration, with particular reference to the appointment of the leadership of the participating company ASM Voghera SpA. Before examining the questions raised by the honourable Member, I think it is necessary to reflect briefly on the events which led the Prefect of Pavia to appoint the aforementioned Commissioner; events mentioned with some critical hints in the preamble to the act of inspection union. In the election round, held on June 14, 2015, Carlo Barbieri reported more votes than the other candidate admitted to the second round, Aurelio Torriani, and was confirmed then mayor of Voghera. However, the operations related to the first round of elections, held on 31 May 2015, were subject to recourse to the TAR for Lombardy by a third candidate mayor, Pier Ezio Ghezzi, excluded from the ballot for a four-vote gap compared to Aurelio Torriani. In the examination of the appeal, the TAR instructed the Pavia Prefecture to proceed in conflict with the parties, duly notified, to verify the total votes obtained by the candidates Ghezzi and Torriani to two electoral sections. The operations carried out by the commission established ad hoc by the prefect, composed of three members among which the vice prefect Sergio Pomponio, have shown a discrepancy of the final results with the numbers reported in the minutes of the aforementioned sections, overturning the outcome of the municipal elections of 31 May 2015 in a favourable direction to the applicant. The goodness of the work of the prefectial commission has been recognized by the TAR for Lombardy that, with sentence of 17 February last, has accepted the appeal of the candidate mayor Pier Ezio Ghezzi. The same court order, moreover, in the explanatory statement, has evidenced that the cancellation of the electoral competition, albeit in part, determines the automatic cessation of the functions of the mayor currently in office, being the responsibility of the Authority prefectizia the determinations in order to the government of the agency in the phase before the conclusion of the procedure of repetition of the round of balloting More recently, on 21 July last, the Council of State, in addition to confirming the correctness of the work of the Prefecture in the decision to proceed to the dissolution of the City Council, rejected the appeal proposed by the outgoing mayor Carlo Barbieri. In compliance with the statues of the Lombardy TAR, the Prefect of Pavia suspended the elected organs of the Municipality of Voghera, naming the vice prefect Sergio Pomponio prefectizio of the agency until the conclusion of the procedure of repetition of the round of balloting. The choice fell on Dr. Pomponio both because of the important positions held in the prefecture, that is vice prefect vicar and regent manager of the area in charge of relations with the local authorities, and because of the experience gained in the police agencies, having the foretold already held, among others, the offices of subcommissary of the Municipalities of Parma and Venice. I now come to the complaints of Senator Davico about the procedure for the appointment of the board of directors of the subsidiary ASM Voghera SpA; complaints related, in particular, to the appointment of Dr. Barbara Piermarioli to the office of president of the body. I am obliged to report, first of all, that the law in force does not confer on the prefects holders of provincial offices or other bodies of the Ministry of the Interior powers of control of the legality of the acts of the Municipalities. This is also true in cases where the local authority is provisionally governed by a prefect or presidential appointment commissioner. As regards the specific questions raised by the Senator on the new board of directors of ASM Voghera, Commissioner Pomponio provided Pavia's prefecture with the following information: The renewal of the Board of Directors was necessary, in accordance with the statutes of that institution, following the resignation presented last February by three of the five members. In doing so, Dr. Pomponio noted first that the guidelines and criteria laid down by the Voghera Municipal Council for the appointments and designations of competence of the Mayor were only partially adapted to the figure of the prefectial commissioner, characterized by the monocratic powers and the absolute provisionality and temporal indeterminity of the task. Therefore, it considered it necessary to predate the appointment of the Board of Directors of ASM Voghera by an ad hoc act of address, published at the online Praetorian Register and therefore easily and promptly accessible by anyone. In this document, the Commissioner, in addition to foreseeing the reduction of the number of members of the board of directors from five to three, in line with the principles laid down by the most recent legislation on the reorganization of the corporate participations of the public administrations, has announced the general criteria to which he would have adhered in the appointment of the collegiate body in question: to give the ASM Voghera a purely technical profile, able to ensure the full efficiency and functionality of the company in the delicate phase of transposition of the important innovations introduced by the legislator in the field; to proceed to appointments of professionals tied by a strictly trusted relationship with the commissioner prefectizio itself; to strictly apply the principle according to which the elected administrative bodies of the Municipality of Voghera, suspended, can summarize in full, at the end of the administration, without obstacle or conditioning any, the power/duty to carry out any evaluation and decide strategic choices regarding the perspectives of the society, appointing a board of directors of own direct expression. On the basis of the act of address, adopted on 29 March last with the powers of the Junta and with plenty of reasons for each of the choices made, on the same day the commissioner appointed - this time with the powers of the mayor - the new board of directors, conferring the functions of president to Dr. Piermarioli. Thus reconstructed, the prefectial commissioner wanted to reiterate the correctness of his overall work, also refuting some specific critical remarks contained in the question. With regard to the circumstances of not having drawn, for the nominations in question, the nominations submitted when the elected municipal bodies were still in place and not reopening the time limits for the submission of new nominations, the Prefectial Commissioner stated that he had not followed these paths not for a prioristic judgment of demerit or professional incompetence of the candidates, but because it would have been inadequate solutions in relation to the peculiarity of the commissioner's management. Regarding the statement that the appointed directors are "foreign to the city" with the consequence that this entails "notable and inevitable expenses of travel" the commissioner has specified that the reimbursements are allowed by law and will happen however in compliance with the provisions of law that govern the matter; on the other hand, he has invited to consider positively the circumstance that the fixed and variable compensations of the new president and vice president of the ASM Voghera are individually inferior, in a meaningful way, to those previewed until 2015 for the analogous offices ceased. From the point of view of institutional correctness and administrative transparency, another aspect to be appreciated is the commitment made by the new directors to cease their duties at the end of the Commissioner's mandate, obviously in line with one of the initial clarifications made by the Commissioner himself. With regard to the appointment of Dr. Piermarioli as president of the company in question, Dr. Pomponio has always represented that the choice has been dictated by the curriculum of all respect of the professional, which boasts to its active significant experiences of administrator of public companies, auditor, curator bankruptcy, technical consultant, advisor for the preparation of concordat plans and court commissioner of companies, without neglecting the fifteen-year collaboration with the court of Parma. With reference to the criminal proceedings initiated by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Parma under the responsibility of Dr. Piermarioli, it is stressed that the causes of incompatibility and inconferibility of the tasks in public bodies, companies and companies with total or partial public capital are established by law in a binding manner and at the moment none of them turns out to have recourse to the aforementioned professional. Among other things, a statement made by the person concerned at the time of acceptance of the appointment as President of ASM Voghera is lodged in the proceedings of the municipality.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u84	DAVICO (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary. We should not, Mr Undersecretary, have you come here to tell us that some irregularities have been committed, but I would like to draw your attention to two important aspects. Firstly, you have found yourselves acting in a situation which concerns a fundamental act of democracy - the most fundamental - which is the vote. We have a local authority that has its administrative activity and its political activity suspended, so democracy is suspended in that municipality. This interests all of us a little, then the facts are what they are: appeals, three or four more or less votes, the two sections and not the others and so on. In fact, we must be very careful because this is the most important moment of democracy and the participation of citizens. Secondly, when the organs of the State interact with each other for these events, those who arrive are not superior to those who receive them. In fact, in the loyal participation, as our Constitution says, between local authorities, there must be collaboration, there must be neither prevarication nor overpowering, so it is not said that those who arrive are right and those who suffer are wrong. The events are known, we must move with extreme caution and with the utmost attention. In this case, these aspects have not been respected, have not been observed and therefore have intervened incorrectly or at least inappropriately and indelicately from the point of view of that attention and presence that we should manifest through subjects such as the Minister of the Interior who are responsible for such interventions. In the meantime, there is an inopportune timing: this question is in April, it has been months and we have a democracy suspended here: we have to act now, we have to act now, we have to respond immediately because we cannot keep democracy suspended, people's participation and the citizens' vote suspended. You said that the elections were cancelled, but that is not the case. The second part of the election, that is, the ballot, was suspended. The elected, or those who will be elected on the basis of the outcome of the ballot, are suspended because the first round of the election is in force, is active; so the candidates do not know whether they have been elected or not because this depends on the mayor who will win the ballot. So we must speed up, and I call on you to do so, the roll-out which must take place as soon as possible because democracy cannot be suspended. It was then inopportune and it was a mistake to confuse the recount - what the TAR asked for - with the redeployments: they are technical issues, they are quibbling, but they are important in this sense. I still want to point out the inopportunity in the appointment of that commissioner, but not for the person, because we are not interested in people here. Those who recount probably, for a democratic opportunity, should not be what the Commissioner then does. It is true that the prefecture is super partes in counting, but it would have been appropriate to choose differently. Another inopportunity concerns intervention on participants. As I said before, we must not override: it is not that those who arrive decide. The one who arrives does what needs to be done, because it cannot be done. It would therefore have been appropriate to suspend the appointments in this case too, extending for some time, where possible, the mandate of these commissioners, perhaps assuming in its own management, since that mayor in that participated has more than 95% and therefore a certain power, waiting for the decisions of the local community and the electoral moment and, therefore, the correct and subsequent evolution of the administrative events related to this territorial multi-utility, which produces income and produces well, receiving the compliments and positive considerations of all. In this case too - and I conclude - it has been inappropriate to intervene with outsiders, when there is a municipal regulation that those who arrive should follow, because it is not that the Commissioner makes the regulation. If it is true, in fact, that the commissioner has extraordinary powers, but there is a municipality and a municipal regulation that provides for the accession, indication or self-candidate of professionals, technicians and people with the right curriculum for certain places. We could therefore intervene by extending the mandate, or by taking people from that list, from those competences. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. DAVICO (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Yes, I'm sorry, ma'am. If it is true that the law provides for reimbursements, but if it were possible not to give refunds because people are of the territory, perhaps it would be spared: it is a virtuous act that interests everyone. Finally, there is the inopportunity of that presidency, which, precisely on facts of this kind - I repeat, it is not a personal or professional matter - has experienced other situations which are not properly correct. I therefore call on the Government to speed up as much as possible the evolution of the democratic fact, of the electoral fact and, therefore, the most positive conclusion of events.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u85	Following is the question 3-02948 on irregularities relating to the management of the CARA of Mineo, in the province of Catania. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u86	Mr President, in the question on the agenda, Senator Bertorotta, together with other senators, was drawn to the attention of some press reports concerning a guarantee notice issued by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Caltagirone against six persons involved in the management of the CARA di Mineo in various ways. Taking the cue from this, the senator asks a series of questions to know what measures the Ministry of the Interior intends to take in relation to the worrying situation of illegality that would emerge from the investigations. According to reports from the Ministry of Justice, specifically consulted on the criminal proceedings in question, the investigations of the aforementioned prosecutor showed that, in the period between October 2011 and June 2015, management costs related to thousands of guests resigned and removed formally by the CARA of Mineo on a date following that of their actual removal from the centre, resulting in payment by the Italian State and, to a lesser extent, by the European Union, of amounts not due for a total amount of just over one million euros. In relation to such conduct, the Public Prosecutor of Caltagirone has notified a decree of search and seizure and contextual information of guarantee to the six persons cited in the text of the question, contesting to them the crimes of ideological falsehood and aggravated fraud, committed at different times, in competition and with several actions of execution of the same criminal plan, therefore continuously. In this regard, I would like to stress immediately that the facts subject to criminal investigation date back to an era in which no body of the Ministry of the Interior has carried out, in relation to the structure of Mineo, specific roles or activities that concerned contractual aspects or managers or that were in any case related to the choice of the entrusted. In fact, during the five-year period 2011-2015, these tasks were carried out, with different levels of responsibility, by the Consortium of Municipalities "Calatino land of reception" and by a temporary association of undertakings on the basis of a contract concluded between them. Having said that, in order to answer the questions asked by the interrogators and the question of legality and transparency that they underlying, I think it is appropriate to retrace the actions and measures adopted by the State system in order to overcome the problems that emerged in the management of the CARA of Mineo. When I say "State system" I refer mainly to the action of the judiciary, the National Anti-corruption Authority and of course the Ministry of the Interior. On June 4, 2015, in the context of the criminal proceedings on the partnership Mafia Capitale, the order of the gip at the court of Rome was executed, which also provided precautionary measures against the Consortium of Social Cooperatives Casa della Solidarietà and the company La Cascina Global Service Srl, which are part of the temporary association of enterprises, of which I was speaking before, the contractor of the management services of the structure of Mineo. On this occasion, the investigative judiciary challenged the alleged commission of corruption crimes and the disturbing freedom of the chariots. From the examination of the precautionary order, the DAC has found the existence of corruptive agreements and fraudulent conduct such as to concrete the extremes for the commissioning of the aforementioned companies, pursuant to Article 32 of Decree-Law No 90 of 2014. The penalty measure, proposed by the president of the ANAC Cantone, was ordered by the prefect of Catania on the following 23 June. The two companies were also targeted by an anti-mafia interdiction measure issued by the Rome Prefecture on the previous day, i.e. on 22 June, as well as the measure for the prevention of the assets of the judicial administration decreed on 27 July by the Capitoline court, under the anti-mafia code. In relation to the latter measure, on 10 August, the Prefect of Catania, in agreement with the Anti-Corruption Authority, adopted a measure suspending the commissioning previously laid down pursuant to Decree-Law No 90 of 2014. Another important development took place in 2015. On 23 November, the Prefecture of Catania, on the indication of the Department for Civil Liberties and Immigration, took over from the Consortium of Municipalities "Calatino land of reception" in contractual relations with the temporary association of enterprises responsible for the management of the Mineo structure. In view of the complexity of the tasks to be carried out, the prefecture has been flanked by an ad hoc mission structure composed of two managers of the prefectizia career and six units of non-directive personnel, with important tasks of control and monitoring, as well as preparation of the competition procedure for the choice by the same prefecture of the new managing entity of the CARA of Mineo. These tasks include checking the adequacy of invoices issued by the temporary association of undertakings and periodically transmitted to the prefecture of Catania. The verification is carried out by finding the register of the presences of the guests of the center with the relative movements in and out. At the entrance of the center has been placed a system of automatic detection of the presences that, through a special magnetic identification card, records the entrances and exits of each guest. Automatic disabling of unused badges for three consecutive days is also foreseen. The payment of invoices is subsequently made by the prefecture on the basis of the adequacy check and the ordinary checks carried out by the supporting structure on the accounting documentation of the CARA. (at 17.40 p.m.) (Handing followed, Undersecretary of State for the Interior). I believe that the reconstruction of the facts just exposed evidences how, in a little more than a year, in addition to starting the rotation of the operators of the center of Mineo, new and incisive management and control procedures have been introduced aimed, just in the sense desired by the interrogators, to prevent episodes of illegality like those discovered and prosecuted by the attorney of the Republic of Caltagirone. This constitutes the confirmation that the Ministry of the Interior is a perfectly interested body and guarantor of transparency and legality, as demonstrated also by the role played by the prefect of Catania, as well as that of Rome. This administration therefore has every interest in the structure of Mineo operating according to a new perspective based on the reconsideration of the system of trust and the mechanisms of management, in compliance with the principles of economicity, effectiveness and efficiency. In conclusion, I inform, for completeness, that in the last month of July the prefect of Catania, taken note of the cessation of the judicial administration of the two managing entities of the CARA of Mineo by the court of Rome, has again ordered its submission to extraordinary and temporary management, pursuant to the decree-law of 11 August 2014, n. 90. Finally, with reference to the new CARA di Mineo, which has been mentioned several times in the text of the question, the prefecture of Catania has indicated that it is a consortium of purpose that the temporary association of enterprises that manages the CARA di Mineo has established within it for a better organization of the services of assistance to people. With this consortium the prefecture has never had any direct relationship, even of a contractual nature.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u89	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr. Undersecretary, thank you for your answer, although the question was mainly about the constitution of the new CARA of Mineo, for which we expected the Ministry to carry out in-depth investigations on the composition of the company, because the characters who are part of the board of directors are already known to our courts and have previously had precedents of disturbing the auction, each with his own convictions, none exempt. So, although you're telling me that the prefecture has no direct contact with these people, with our question submitted a few months ago, we wanted to draw your attention to this. We learned from press reports that you did an inspection task force. I know that you too, with the Single Chamber Committee of Inquiry into CARAs and CIEs, have visited these places. However - it happens - in the inspections that we do (usually to surprise and not only in the CARA and in the centres of first reception, but also in the SPRAR and in all the structures that receive minors) we find punctually that what written in the organigrams and in the program of management of people at the human, educational and insertion level never corresponds to what is really realized. When it comes to minors, it is clear that the situation is getting worse. In any case, in our opinion, the question remains about this inspection task force that the Government intends to set up: I do not know how you are already doing inspections and whether their outcome will be communicated to Parliament or to all citizens. In fact, institutional inspections generally leave the time they find. By the way, from press reports we also learn that journalists have managed to enter and settle in the CARA of Mineo and, for a week, have made videos and a very detailed report on the truly creepy conditions of life of migrants. In our view, we must not leave this issue unnoticed, even if you have taken steps forward and set up these budgets that can certainly combat fraud against the state with regard to the daily routes. However, we believe that much more work should be done. Above all, it is necessary to monitor the people who manage these structures, whether they are in ATI or if they have contacts with the prefecture, institutions or not, because they are companies that take money from the state and deal with people. Therefore, the topic is very delicate and we know that today that of migrants has become one of the biggest business in our country, with very poor practical results.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u90	The following is the question 3-02064 on the judicial case following the murder of Rocco Chinnici. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u91	Madam President, by means of the inspection act in question, the honourable interrogators retrace the judicial case concerning the magistrate Giuseppe Recovera, who, as President of the Court of Assizes of Messina, had issued a sentence of acquittal against the brothers Michele and Salvatore Greco in order to charge a contest in the murder of the instructor advisor Rocco Chinnici, and who had subsequently been investigated by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Reggio Calabria for external competition in Mafia association and other. They highlight, in particular, as following the decline of jurisdiction of the judge for the preliminary investigations of Reggio Calabria, on 7 July 1998, the procedural file had been transmitted to the prosecutor of the Republic of Palermo, where, however, the same was not entered in the general register of the news of crime until 2013, when it had taken place the fulfilments consequent to the transmission order and the procedure had been closed to be the suspect by now deceased. They therefore censor the inertia of the Palermo Public Prosecutor who, for fifteen years, would not have provided the registration and the consequent fulfillment, asking whether the Minister of Justice is aware of the facts and what initiatives he intends to take to ascertain the relative responsibilities. With regard to the reconstruction of the case presented, the note transmitted by the prosecutor of the Republic of Palermo, in which it is read as the aforementioned office, was received in 1998 by the judicial authority of Reggio Calabria two separate proceedings, which were part of a single strand of investigation: the first, transmitted by the court of Reggio Calabria following a judgment of incompetence issued by that gup (pronounced on May 21, 1998), reached this office on July 14, 1998, as shown by the stamp of the office receiving the documents of this proxy; the second, transmitted by the prosecutor of the Republic of Reggio Calabria following a declaration of incompetence issued by the gip of the same office (on March 4, 1998), was partially sent by the proxy of Reggio Calabria and received by this office on July 14, 1998 (in the note of transmission, the public prosecutor of Reggio Calabria showed that the entire file in the original, including then the part defined by judgment, had already been sent by the office of the gup); subsequently, other acts concerning the Giuseppe e Scarpisi perveno Pietro at this office in August 8th 199888. He added that only the second of these proceedings, in respect of five persons, was recorded in the register of crime of this office and ended with a request for filing of 20 August 1998, received by the gip at the court of Palermo on 11 September 1998. On the other hand, no registration is made - but on the point the prosecutor makes reservation of additional elements pending the completion of the checks - with reference to the proceedings coming from the court of Reggio Calabria, against Recover Giuseppe and Scarpisi Pietro. The acts of the relevant proceedings were in some way included in the sole file also covered by the order of incompetence. This procedure was only found in 2013. The Attorney of the Republic ordered it to be entered in the model register 21, providing for its assignment. This procedure was then defined with request for storage also on the merits with reference to the position of the Scarpisi that partially reflows on that of the Recovery, meanwhile deceased, on 25 November 2013, fully and de plano received by the gip of Palermo on 6 December 2013. The procedure was therefore detailed within the time limits indicated by the competent prosecutor. With regard to the exercise of the prerogatives granted to the Guardasigilli according to the Constitution and the laws, any appropriate assessment on this matter will be carried out by the Minister of Justice to the outcome of the transmission by the prosecutor of the Republic of Palermo of the results of the verification activity to which he has reserved. Pending the findings of the investigations, therefore, the honourable Members are reassured that the Minister will give the utmost attention, within the framework of his powers, to the matter, taking due account also of its delicateness and particular complexity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u94	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, I am absolutely not satisfied with this answer. It is not possible that for almost fifteen years there will remain a very serious accusation against a magistrate, a section president, accused of having received 200 million lire and even a horse from the thighs (so writes "the Republic"), without an investigation being carried out. Fifteen years. And we're talking about giving justice to a state servant, Rocco Chinnici, the carabinieri who escorted him, and innocent people who lost their lives. After a year, we're still investigating. Fifteen weren't enough to know who had the task of telling us if that magistrate was guilty of what he was accused of. And we remind you of those events. That trial came from two decisions of the courts of merit of condemnation of the Greek brothers, both annulled in cassation and included among the 500 judgments against mafias cancelled by Corrado Carnival. The sentence condemning the perpetrators of the Chinnici massacre says that you cannot condemn the Greeks, because the judged has passed: that shameful judged. Obviously, in fact, the sentence of Judge Recover, of Messina, was immediately ratified by the Cassation. Therefore, to say that you have merged into the sentence of acquittal and filing of Scarpisi, it is false. This is stated in the final sentence, which concerns, however, only a part of those who have been guilty of such a serious crime. Some even unknown, as the sentence says, and others covered by the judgment. Shameful! So, Madam Undersecretary, we cannot be satisfied with this answer, at a distance of so much time.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u95	The following is the question 3-02865 on a better distribution of the Single Fund for Justice, with particular reference to the Bari Public Prosecutor. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u96	Madam President, through the act of inspection union under discussion - which recalls a note, reported by the press, addressed by the prosecutor of the Republic of Bari to the Ministry of Justice in order to represent the critical situation in which the office of the Bari district attorney for the lack of administrative personnel - is asked to know what initiatives, of normative and organizational type, the Minister intends to adopt in order to guarantee minimum standards of functioning of the judicial system. With regard to the specific questions raised, it is reiterated here too that the adoption of structural measures to support the judicial offices was the primary objective of the action of the Minister of Justice, pursued - among other things - through new policies for administrative staff in the judicial offices, after years of absolute stagnation. The information provided by the competent ministerial body shows that 123 administrative staff are currently in service with the public prosecutor of the Republic of Bari compared to the forecast of 134 human resources in an organic way, with a coverage rate of 8.21 per cent, below the national average of 21.80 per cent. Specifically, with particular reference to the most important profiles, for the purpose of the proper functioning of the office, it appears that the managerial position is temporarily covered by regency and that the staff of the accounting officer, the judicial operator, the driver of vehicles and the auxiliary are entirely complete. As for judicial officials, a vacancy has already been filled with one of the winners of the call for external mobility published in 2015. In addition, both posts (one of a judicial officer and one of an accounting officer) were covered by the transfer procedure at the request of the staff of the judicial administration, while only one unit (one Registrar) was removed from the office. To the outcome of the first phase of the compulsory mobility procedure, pursuant to article 1, paragraph 425, of the law n. 190 of 2014, managed through the portal of the public service, has been, moreover, hired an administrative director, coming from the lists of redundant personnel, that has assumed possession in the office last 1° september. With the procedures for the acquisition of personnel placed in compulsory mobility, they took overall service on 1 September last, on the national territory, 344 new staff resources, 73 of which came from large-area entities and 286 from other sectors. The equivalence of their duties and profiles has taken place in accordance with current legislation, but the Ministry has already planned specific training courses. Additional units may be recruited once the mandatory mobility procedures have been completed and, at the same time as the turnover is unblocked, it will also be possible to resume ordinary recruitment capacities. A specific amendment to the decree-law on the telematic administrative process, converted by law passed by Parliament on 3 August, now provides for the permanent recruitment of 1,000 units of non-directional administrative staff in the Ministry of Justice. The law also provides for the possibility of introducing new professional profiles, including technical profiles, which are essential for the management of office operating costs and advanced digitisation. Precisely in order to implement a regulatory framework that has initiated extraordinary procedures for recruiting new resources through calls for voluntary mobility, compulsory mobility, retraining and finally, new recruitment thanks to Decree-Law no. 117 of 30 June 2016, which not only authorizes the Ministry to a real recruitment programme, but effectively completes a comprehensive framework of legislative provisions in the field of personnel, the Guardasigilli addressed, on 8 September, to the heads of the offices a directive containing the lines of intervention to be referred to. The aim of the Directive is to provide the new staff with the most suitable and appropriate training, enhancing the skills already available in the various offices on the ground and making use of more innovative and agile training tools. In addition, the professional profiles will be revised and re-modulated, the definition of certain tasks will be reconsidered and new professional figures, currently not present in the administration of justice, will be included, according to a plan of lines of action that effectively complements the overall framework of legislative provisions on staff already started. As part of the comprehensive programme of new recruitments for justice, which is thus emerging, new resources can also be allocated to the office under examination. Similar efforts have been made to ensure that the offices have adequate staff of the judiciary. In this perspective, the structure resulting from the reform of judicial geography has been the subject of continuous observation, in the whole of the interventions, not yet exhausted, of normative and organizational type, necessary to construct an orderly structure suitable to respond satisfactorily to the demand for justice and to the needs of the territory. The complex process of revision is now going through a further, important phase, with the sending to the Supreme Council of the judiciary of the draft ministerial decree concerning the determination of organic plants of the offices, judges and requirers, at first instance, resulting precisely from the revision of judicial districts, and which transposes the needs of the offices according to their territorial location. In this context, an increase in the staff of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bari was envisaged in a post of Assistant Prosecutor and two posts of Deputy Prosecutor. Presse to point out that the increase of a post of assistant prosecutor responds to the specific aims of the district prosecutors anti-mafia, aiming to ensure a greater effectiveness to the action of contrast of the phenomena of organized crime of mafia type, in the case of particularly serious and alarming species in the district of Foggia. As regards the determination of the additional units, the same was done on the basis of statistical parameters - population, flows, dimensional clusters - complemented by qualified indicators of the demand for justice, such as the number of enterprises present on the territory and their concentration by area, the incidence of organised crime, accessibility of the service for citizens (the so-called city users). In the same way as the combined reading of these indicators, therefore, the prosecutor of the Republic of Bari has been equipped with additional units, in the largest increase of the judicial staff of the district, which sees overall assigned to the Bari judicial offices seven posts of judge and two deputy prosecutor of the Republic. On the other hand, as regards the initiatives aimed at amending the measures of the penal code adopted in the area of improcability for the sake of consistency and decriminalisation of certain cases, with a view to ensuring the proper functioning of the justice service - as outlined in the question - it is not possible to study further legislative initiatives in this area, given the recent entry into force of the deflated institutions. In order to remedy any problems or interpretative problems arising from the application of the new legislative text, the same delegation law has provided, moreover, the possibility to issue, within eighteen months from the date of entry into force of the last of the legislative decrees of implementation, one or more corrective and complementary decrees. This leaves the regulatory path open for any correction, which is considered necessary for the outcome of the first monitoring carried out. Moreover, the Ministry of Justice is responsible, every two years, for the Regulatory Impact Assessment (VIR), in accordance with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 19 November 2009, n. 212, based on the data resulting from the monitoring of the effects of the regulatory intervention for the purpose of possible corrective changes. With specific reference, finally, to what is deduced in the inspection act in relation to the possibility of allocating part of the resources that flow into the Single Fund of Justice (FUG) to the operation and the strengthening of the judicial offices (including, in the species, those of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Bari) is represented that - as is known - Article 2 of Decree-Law No 143 of 16 September 2008, converted with amendments by Law No 181 of 13 November 2008, entrusted to Equitalia Giustizia SpA the management of the Fund. With regard to the distribution of resources merged into the FUG, Article 2, paragraph 7, of Decree-Law No 143 of 2008 states that by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Economy and Finance, in agreement with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, the quotas of the available resources to be allocated, by reassignment, on the basis of statistical criteria and by rotation, to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, as well as to the budget of the State. The 2009 Implementing Regulation No 127 stipulates, in Article 7, that the immediate reallocation of the sums to the Ministries of Justice and Home Affairs is ordered by decree of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. The decrees issued so far have always provided for the allocation of 49 percent to the Ministry of the Interior, 49 percent to the Ministry of Justice and 2 percent to the State budget. In the years 2011-2015 the Ministry of Justice has achieved, as an anticipation, the total sum of 600,520,000 euros. The amount of resources allocated to the Ministry of Justice is therefore determined by the current regulatory parameters.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u99	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, I appreciate the effort that has been made to answer my question, an answer which I consider to be absolutely insufficient, because it does not basically offer itself, even in terms of perspective, a solution to the complex and numerous critical issues highlighted in the act of inspection union, recovering the cry of alarm that, with a specific note of last 4 May, the prosecutor of the Republic has brought to the attention of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. With regard to the last point that has been raised concerning the Single Fund for Justice, the sum that has been allocated to the Ministry of Justice in part has been quantified, but there is no answer as to what sum of this Fund has been allocated to the judicial offices in Bari, as envisaged and also mentioned in the reply. It remains, however, only in terms of commitment and therefore in terms of the hypothetical future perspective, a very weak answer in terms of gravity, denounced by the offices of the prosecutor and in any case already brought to the attention of the undersigned in the past legislature with similar acts of inspection union, of the situation relative to the inadequacy of the staff. Nor, on the other hand, can the situation of Bari's judicial offices be considered happy, because they are in a condition less worse than that of other judicial offices in our country; it remains a particularly serious and critical situation, not only in view of the lack of staff. It is thought that only in the current year will ten employees reach the age of retirement and it is known that the mobility ban for now provides for the allocation of a single unit of staff. It also awaited the situation of particular gravity denounced by the offices of the attorney for the district of Bari as regards the complexity and virulence of the criminal acts carried out by the mafia clans operating in the territory of Bari, but also of Foggia (it is thought that, in recent years, more than 200 mafia murders have been recorded, not to mention the long strip of blood, which stretches all the way behind the door of the institutions), this would impose a greater attention, which seems to me not to find even the most labile feedback in the response provided, with particular regard - I repeat - to the difficulty recorded as regards the organics, which, as defined today, do not allow - this has been expressly denounced by the appropriate acts - the execution of the normal activities of justice. It also denounces the absolute inadequacy of the legislative initiatives put to the attention of Parliament by the Government, fired by Parliament itself, which had a deflagrating tendency and which, on the other hand, is highlighted, even have a further effect on the responsibilities and regret to see that there is no provision for integration or modification of the existing rules, even the most recent ones, approved by Parliament with the aim of having a deflagrating effect on the system.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u100	Following is the question 3-02884 on the overcrowding of prisons and on the shortage of staff of the prison police, in particular in Puglia. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u101	Madam President, with this inspection, the honourable Member deals with a number of issues relating to the execution of the sentence and the prison system, with specific reference to the surrounding house in Taranto and to an incident of revolt of the prisoners there. The report submitted by the Department of the penitentiary administration shows that, in fact, on 30 April 2016, a collective protest took place at section B of the prison institute in Taranto, during which a prison police officer suffered a violent assault. The same, however, was timely and effectively contained and the prisoners identified as promoters were sanctioned disciplinaryly and transferred for security reasons to other prisons outside the Region. With specific regard to the human resources assigned to the surrounding house in Taranto, it must be noted that 293 units of prison police personnel are currently in service and that the cover with respect to the organic forecast is 46 units, equal to 13 percent of the total, almost in line with the national data. In order to cope with the cover-up, during 2015, the staff of the Tarantino prison was assigned a mountain of overtime of 65,050 hours (which corresponds to a job contribution of about 30 staff per day), which was not necessary to employ in full, having been used 63,396. In general, the Ministry pays particular attention to the working conditions of prison police personnel, to which a specific thematic table has also been dedicated within the General States on criminal execution, an initiative recently concluded. In order to adapt the staff of the prison police force to the organizational needs and the treatment purposes, already in 2014 the Department of the penitentiary administration has expanded the human resources endowment up to 45,325 units and - with the law of stability for the current year, thanks to the commitment made by this Ministry, have been allocated the economic resources necessary to proceed to the realignment of the leadership roles of the prison police force with those correspondents of the other police forces. The concrete realization of this forecast is entrusted to a normative provision, for whose elaboration a joint analysis with the Ministry of the Interior is currently being carried out, within the framework of the overall reorganization of the police forces. Similar efforts are being made in the area of improving penitentiary structures. In this regard, it must refer to the work of the joint table, established between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, for the implementation of important interventions aimed at improving living conditions, both personnel and prisoners, through a plan for the modernization of the prison structures able to align them to the standards envisaged at European level, according to the Plan prisons subject to continuous verification and updating. The initiatives mentioned also interested the Puglia Region through the realization of important interventions, in course of execution near the structures of Lecce and Taranto. In particular, for the Taranto penitentiary the structural recovery work of the block C and the observation department has already been started for some time. Specific interventions have also recently focused on common areas for social activities and worship, as well as green areas for treatment and recreational activities and talks with children. In addition, resources are already allocated for substantial renovations at the surrounding houses of Brindisi, Bari and Trani. Thanks to these initiatives, the detention capacity of the Puglia Region - which currently has 2,359 seats - will be further increased by 600 seats. With regard to the further question raised by the honourable Member - with whom concern is expressed about the risk of intimidation of prison operators - it must be pointed out that constant and extensive monitoring is carried out within the prison institutions, carried out in close cooperation with the prosecutors of the territorially competent Republic. As regards, finally, the complex question of the transition from psychiatric judicial hospitals to the REMS, it must first be specified that the competence of the Department of the penitentiary administration has been limited as a result of the agreement established at the unified conference on 26 February 2015, and is limited to providing the judicial authority with an indication of the residential structure of reference for the admission of persons reached by the implementing measure of the detention security measure. On the other hand, the Ministry of Health and Regional Administration is responsible for the material implementation of the measures issued by the judicial authority. As you know, the failure of the Regions to implement a sufficient number of beds to accommodate persons subject to prison security measures has led to a situation of general criticality. This situation, however, is in the process of being resolved, as a result of the unfulfilled Commissioner of the Regions, which was set up by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in October 2015 and the appointment, last February, of the Extraordinary Commissioner, recently renewed for a further six months. Thanks to the significant efforts made also by the Puglia Region, have been activated the REMS of Spinazzola and Carovigno that offer, respectively, 20 and 18 places, in line with what established with the general programming presented and approved for the financing from the same Ministry. More specifically, Spinazzola's REMS, with 20 beds, came into operation on 25 November 2015 and quickly reached the maximum reception capacity. Finally, with the recent activation of the interim REMS of Carovigno, it was possible to take place the transfers of the internees of the Puglia Region already hosted at the psychiatric hospitals of Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto and Caltagirone. The question of the limited capacity of the structures is also addressed in the context of the Senate Act 2067, amending the penal code and the Code of Criminal Procedure for the strengthening of defensive guarantees and the reasonable duration of the trials, as well as the penitentiary order for the re-educational effectiveness of the sentence, currently under discussion in the Senate. The Government will pay particular attention to all the ideas and solutions that may emerge from the parliamentary debate. With a view to ensuring the most appropriate treatment for prisoners suffering from mental illness occurring during the restriction, it was also envisaged at the Lecce district house to activate a section called "Articholazione per la protezione delle sanità mentale" (Articholazione for the protection of mental health), carried out with criteria that allow the completion of the investigations referred to in Article 112 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 230 of 2000. The work on the adaptation of the section has been completed and, due to its effective activation, it is expected that the ASL in Lecce will complete the procedures under the responsibility of the regional health service. What has been reported so far shows the attention of the Ministry of Justice's policies to all issues related to the execution of the sentence and reassures the honourable Member of the commitment that the Government will continue to devote to this crucial area.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u104	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Madam Undersecretary, thank you for your timely reply, but unfortunately not satisfactory. I have visited the penitentiaries of my region for about ten years and I must point out that, with regard in particular to the Taranto penitentiary, against a planned staff of 340 units, there is an effective one of 288 units, with a shortage therefore of 52 people. It must also be pointed out how and how much this deficiency becomes even more serious, given that, given the penitentiary's capacity of 306 posts, there are 486 prisoners. So, basically, there's a lower staff, but there's a larger prison population. I agree with the Secretary of State in making a note of particular appreciation for the effective work that employees and, in particular, prison police bodies play together with administrative and managerial roles in the performance of their duties. In addition, of the 288 people employed in Taranto, 118 are over fifty years of age and 145 have more than twenty-five years of service and 58 enjoy the facilities provided by Law No 104 of 1992. All these considerations as a whole undoubtedly determine the concentration of a greater amount of work on a smaller audience of subjects, with obvious reasons for overloading for a job which in itself is particularly usurpable. I also find it unsatisfactory to respond to the Government's commitment to the implementation of the REMS. It is true that we had in Puglia the activation of two REMS, one in Carovigno and one in Spinazzola, but I inform the Undersecretary that, with the question 4-06330, presented today, I question the Minister of Justice in relation to a very serious pathology, of which I would like to take charge right now, concerning the illegal detention of an inmate at the prison of Taranto, which should instead be sent in a REMS that you cannot find. Despite, in fact, the management of the Taranto penitentiary sent first to Carovigno and then to Spinazzola the aforementioned prisoner, it has been found the denial to hospitality for lack of places and, therefore, this person who, by order of the gip, must be held in a REMS, today is illegitimately held at the prison of Taranto. I believe that this is a particularly serious pathology from the point of view of the organization of the system, which naturally requires effective interventions which, I hope, can be carried out, but which I do not think in the reply note are indicated as immediate in the imminent proximity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u105	The following are questions 3-02464 and 3-03074 on the rationalization of territorial courts in Sardinia. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u106	Madam President, by means of the act of inspection union under discussion, the honourable Members of this House fear - in the context of a broader reconstruction of the results of the revision of judicial districts - the abolition of certain Sardinian judicial offices, with the sacrifice of the principle of proximity to jurisdiction, according to the conclusions of the ministerial committee on the reform of the judiciary. He therefore asked whether and in what terms the Minister intended to implement the reform guidelines set out in the final report on the work. As you know, the Ministry of Justice has now consolidated the process of adapting the judicial geography following the overall reorganization of the offices of first instance, arranged with the adoption of legislative decrees no. 155 and 156 of 7 September 2012, as amended. The revision of the ordinary courts has been one of the most important structural reforms in recent years, leading to a significant increase in the efficiency of the judicial system through the recovery of economies of scale and, above all, the improvement of the timing and quality of judicial decisions by virtue of the promotion of the principle of specialisation. The reform has, of course, started a significant process of saving expenditure, in the course of progressive implementation and verification, as well as the effects of the actions implemented are constantly monitored, also in order to identify possible corrective remedies to the criticalities highlighted in the implementation phase. The process of revising judicial geography is therefore subject to progressive verification and is further oriented towards the redefinition of second-degree offices. With reference to the district offices, in fact, the analysis of statistical data shows that the distribution of workloads at the individual court of appeal is extremely heterogeneous both for the civil sector, and for the criminal sector, with unbalanced distribution of business between the offices. The need for new measures in the field of judicial geography, with specific reference to the setting up of second-degree offices, has therefore been set up. The Minister therefore set up a study commission, chaired by Professor Michele Vietti, to which analysis and study activities were entrusted with the formulation of legislative proposals, in the general perspective of updating and rationalising the system according to the principles dictated by the Constitutional Charter and with the objective of efficiency in the performance of justice, also with specific reference to the development of the process of revision of judicial geography. With this in mind, the Commission has drawn up an intervention which aims to complete the process of rationalising the distribution of judicial offices in the territory, aimed at increasing the effectiveness of second-degree offices and at achieving savings in public expenditure, through the redefinition of the territorial planning of the districts of the court of appeal, also through the allocation of districts of courts belonging to neighboring districts, according to objective criteria of the extension of the territory, the number of inhabitants, workloads and the index of excesses. In addition to these criteria, and in the light of the honourable Member's point of view, the committee's study considered the territorial specificity of the user base, including the particular infrastructure situation, as well as the measure of the impact of the reorganization of offices on the need to combat criminal phenomena as identified in the individual reference territories, in the search for a balance between the various interests involved in order to identify the most suitable solutions to improve the efficiency of justice at the service of the citizen. With a view to ensuring the widest institutional confrontation and to acquiring further elements of reflection, the committee also carried out appropriate talks with the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the National Council of Forensics, the National Association of Magistrates. Following the outcome of the work and taking into account the fact that the proposals put forward offer themselves to the wider political and institutional debate, further assessments may be submitted to the Government for consideration for the start of the parliamentary path of the appropriate legislative initiatives. The technical content of the legislative projects that will gradually take shape must therefore still be outlined and more widely discussed. The proposals put forward will, in the state, be subject to further reflections and evaluations, especially with regard to specific territorial realities.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u109	SERRA (M5S). Madam Undersecretary, I am not satisfied with the answer because it does not show what is meant by the courts of Oristano and Lanusei, which are strongly lacking in terms of both geography and transport. I repeat, therefore, that I am not satisfied at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u110	The following is the question 3-03051 on the escort service to the former president of the precautionary measures section of the Palermo court, Silvana Saguto. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u111	Madam President, in relation to the inspection with which the honourable Members ask to know whether Dr Silvana Saguto, already president of the first criminal section and for the preventive measures of the court of Palermo, is still assigned the protection service, must be specified in advance that, pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law No 83, converted into Law No 133 of 2 July 2002, and Ministerial Decree No 133 of 28 May 2003, subsequently supplemented by Ministerial Decree 23 November 2011, the procedure for the allocation of protection and protection measures against the high institutional personalities, as well as persons who, for the functions exercised or for other proven reasons, are subject to danger or threat, is assigned to the competence of the Ministry of the Interior and, in particular, to the central office of interforces for personal security. According to the aforementioned legislation, it also falls within the competence of the aforementioned Ministry of the Interior the adoption of guardians' devices against the magistrates, in addition to the management of the personnel employed in the protection service. In the merits of the specific case covered by the inspection, the prefecture of Palermo has communicated that the provincial committee for public order and security, on May 11, 2016, had arranged for Dr. Silvana Saguto the security measure of the "guard" on specialized car (protection III level of risk), in its ordinary configuration, with the exclusion of the reinforcement already arranged in its favor since 2013, integrated by a general surveillance system radio-connected to the house, and with validity until August 31, 2016, unless further verification. By letter dated 14 September 2016, the Ministry of Interior informed that, in the framework of the periodic review of the protection measures, the technical meeting of police coordination at the prefecture of Palermo reviewed the degree of risk exposure of Dr. Saguti and, on the proposal of the prefect, the central interforce for personal security of the Department of Public Security mitigated the measure of personal protection, bringing it from the third to the fourth level of risk, thus adapting it to current needs. I would like to stress that these are protective measures which are taken by the competent public safety authority.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u114	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary for being very precise. I would like to make it clear that this question was tabled in October 2015 and above all wanted to take stock of two things. The first is that of the security and precautionary measures related to the supplyes. Unfortunately we all know that this problem is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, but there are many subjects who are kept under escort even when the danger has failed. Many times, these stocks, when they reach the fourth level, end up being mere companions. We all know that it is very difficult to get to the withdrawal of the escort, even when in fact the risk that he had caused the escort to be assigned is reduced considerably, and I refer to the case of Dr. Saguti. But here we are faced with a case in which Dr. Saguti, suddenly, was entered in the register of suspects because former president of the section of the precautionary measures of the court of Palermo, and an investigation for corruption, induction and abuse of office was extended. These are very serious facts because Caltanissetta's attorney is still investigating the illicits in the management of the assets seized from us, which besides Dr. Saguti also involves some of his family members, administrators and magistrates, and the extension serves precisely to continue to investigate about forty judicial administration. Since I submitted the question, I must say that this magic circle has extended, made of favors and gifts in the administrations, of riches taken from the bosses, creating a system that is described as the Mafia of anti-Mafia. It is a concern to think that a subject, accused of doing favors and or using his role to benefit characters and distribute assets seized with the anti-mafia, is still considered at risk and is being kept under guard. I think we should use escort staff for much more serious and risky cases. Thank you again, Madam Undersecretary, for your reply. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u115	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-680.ana.u116	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 20 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.34.
