ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1375. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u9	Madam President, I am completely Afona, and I therefore ask whether Senator Marcucci, President of the 7th Commission, can carry out the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u10	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you of the words spoken by the President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, in the aftermath of the massacre at the Théâtre Bataclan in Paris: "We are reacting to terrorism with more theatres and more culture," a strong and unequivocal political message, widely shared by public opinion and political forces. Culture, music, dance and theatre stimulate freedom of expression against the obscurantism of fundamentalism, strengthen the sense of belonging to a community, promote social cohesion, integration and the sharing of identity values. That is why in those dramatic days the government decided to allocate a billion in security and one in culture, so that Europe, shaken by horror, could react not by erecting walls, but by building bridges, strong of our clear cultural identity and our values of freedom. In this context the discussion of the bill Pagliari has been included in the 7th Commission, gathering the unanimous will of the Commission to contribute to the support of two important national festivals, the Festival Verdi and the Festival Romaeuropa, not only for their artistic, aesthetic and cultural value, but also for the moral, civil and social one of the country and of the whole Europe. 2013 was the year of the second centenary of the birth of Giuseppe Verdi; He was born in Le Roncole (now Roncole Verdi), a hamlet of Busseto, in the province of Parma, on October 10, 1813. By law no. 206 of 12 November 2012, the Parliament wished to celebrate the figure of the Master declaring 2013 "Verdi year", recognizing the places where important memories of his life and of his work of interest particularly important to the senses and for the effects of article 10, paragraph 3, letter d), of the code of cultural goods and landscape, referred to in Legislative Decree no. 42 of 22 January 2004, and allocating an extraordinary contribution of 6.5 million euros for interventions of promotion, research, safeguard and dissemination of knowledge of life, work and places related to the figure of Giuseppe Verdi. The celebrations for the bicentenary have attracted increasing attention to the figure of the Master of Busseto in Parma, in the Verdi places, in Italy and in the world; attention we wish to keep alive once the celebrations have ended, precisely because the Master of Busseto and his works represent a fundamental value for the national identity. To this end, this bill aims to recognize to the Fondazione Teatro Regio di Parma, for the realization of the Verdi Festival, an annual contribution equal to what the law 20 December 2012, n. 238, has recognized to other Italian music and opera festivals of absolute international prestige. The Verdi Festival was founded in the second half of the eighties and took place until 1993, and was then reintroduced in 2001 on the occasion of the National Celebrations of the Verdi Centenary. The Festival is promoted and organized by the Fondazione Teatro Regio in Parma, able to extend the production activity also to the Verdi theatre in Busseto, with a consolidated visibility able to exercise a strong international appeal. The Festival takes place every year from October to November and includes opera performances, symphonic concerts, opera-choirs and chamber music, congressional initiatives, research and training activities involving many other public and private institutions, including the National Institute of Verdi Studies. The purpose of this bill is therefore to propose the provision of an annual financial contribution, starting from 2017, of one million euros in favour of the Fondazione Teatro Regio for the organization of the Verdi Festival in Parma and Busseto so that it can develop in a way comparable to other music festivals of national and international importance. Also in Article 1 of this law, it is allocated to the Fondazione Romaeuropa Arte e Cultura for the realization of the Romaeuropa Festival. The Romaeuropa Foundation is one of the most prestigious institutions in Italy and Europe for the promotion and dissemination of art, theatre, dance and contemporary music. For thirty-one years the Romaeuropa Festival has been the reference point for music, contemporary art creation and live performance in the Capital of Italy. The Romeeuropa Festival was founded in 1986 at the Accademia di Francia - Villa Medici on the initiative of Giovanni Pieraccini and Monique Veaute. In 2015 and 2016 he received the High Patronage of the President of the Italian Republic. It is supported by the Embassies of France and Spain, the Goethe-Institut and the British Council which are present, together with Roma Capitale and Regione Lazio, on the board of the Fondazione Romaeuropa Arte e Cultura, which organizes the Festival. The Romaeuropa Festival also collaborates with many European activities and embassies in Rome and is included in the Creative Europe programme, the Quebec delegation in Italy and receives the patronage of the embassies of Belgium, the United States and Greece. The Romeeuropa Festival takes place every autumn with a program of about seventy-five days in 20 spaces of the capital, in public and private theatres, historical spaces (such as the Palatine and the Baths of Diocletian), museums of contemporary art and independent spaces. It presents an international artistic programming of great masters and supports the renewal and the young Italian generations. The Romaeuropa Festival collaborates and produces with major European festivals, such as Avignon, and is a member of the European networks Theatron, Aerowaves, The Little Project. Over the years, Romeeuropa has hosted the main representatives of music of our time, avant-garde music theatre, sound experimentation, new electronic music and musical traditions in a relationship of encounter and dialogue with all the arts including dance, theatre and visual arts. It presents on average more than 40 projects of music and show, for about 120 performances, with over 40,000 appearances. Every year the Festival devotes ample space to the formation of young people and the public with 12 free programs and paths, meetings and insights before and after the shows, has a strong presence on the web through its own social channels, has a historical archive recognized by the Mibact of over 3,500 titles and is attentive to the relationship between creativity and new technologies through its Digitalife section. He collaborates permanently with the Accademia Nazionale di Santa Cecilia, the Special National Superintendence for the Colosseum and the Central Archaeological Area, the Theatre of Rome and the Opera of Rome, the Macro and Maxxi, the private theatres of the city of Rome and the centers of independent culture. Crossroads of cultural exchanges with the whole world, the mission of the Festival is to intercept the energies of the contemporary in order to transform them into art and culture, into innovative artistic experiences capable of expressing the tension towards the future and moving ever further the frontier of the artistic investigation; but also in new models of development and business management in the cultural field. Faithful to its mission, Romeeuropa has in recent years pursued and achieved the objective of bringing a vast and composite public closer to contemporary world art creation, as well as promoting the knowledge of the great masters and young talents in the field of the scenic arts. [[Applause from Senator Puglisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u12	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u13	Madam President, I realize that these important issues come almost as an escape from a wider and more binding problem, which sees the country engaged in real despair, in some cases, such as the increase in unemployment or the reduction in recruitment. There is no thrust, but let us stick to the agenda. It seems to me that on the Verdi Festival of Parma and Busseto everyone looks carefully because it cannot be said that it is useful to the cultural growth of the entire country, not only of that institution and the territory on which it insists, to the realization of a wider and more qualified program, what is, precisely, in the intent of the foundation that oversees the organization of this Festival. In this sense, Madam President, allow me to appeal to the Government and its majority to see on this occasion, in this parliamentary debate, on today's agenda with issues all related to the development of culture and education in Italy, the opportunity to plead a cause compared to other institutions important for the overall and harmonious growth of the entire country. I am talking about the event, just as important, which is the Festival of the Itria Valley in Puglia, perhaps the most important Festival of the Mezzogiorno from the point of view of quality, the number of productions, the interest it has aroused for forty-two years. This Festival, born in the mid-1970s, has a noble father who, already with having lent his name and also his work, has allowed the Festival to grow even in terms of cultural dignity. His name is Paolo Grassi, the then superintendent of the Teatro alla Scala in Milan. Paolo Grassi, originally from Martina Franca - his parents were born in Martina and then emigrated to the North, precisely to Milan - wanted to recognize in his homeland a value of cultural and social nature. In the Mezzogiorno we grow, we flee to the oblivion of backwardness through cultural growth, the "cultural insemination." Paolo Grassi at the time had this intuition, which was not only a luminary and a visionary from an artistic and cultural point of view, as he was, but also involved extraordinary names. Strehler himself had the opportunity to give this Festival its moral support. Therefore, in Martina Franca every year, for forty-two years, the Festival of the Itria Valley takes place, which among other things stands out in the panorama of Italian and international events of the genre because it has at heart the rediscovery of the most unusual repertoires and authors of the Neapolitan and Apulian school, particularly of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. I quote some names: Paisiello, Piccinni, Mercadante, Traetta, Leo. The Festival also has the merit of having brought back the great European opera tradition. It boasts an established school of beautiful singing and has created the stage crafts, producing in its own costumes and sets. It has staged 1,500 productions, since the year it was founded. The performances and concerts usually start in mid-July each year to close in the early days of August. With more resources available the Festival could lengthen the season allowing greater revenues aimed at self-sustaining, generating economy for the territory in terms of tourist presences already remarkable for the undisputed quality of musical artistic productions. For this reason, the organizational efforts of the foundation that oversees the organisation and promotion of the Festival should be supported with greater funding. The contribution could allow the Festival to reach levels of organizational and artistic quality able to generate induced to the territory, putting into system the tourist economy of the Murgia dei Trulli, an area that groups about fifteen civil communities dedicated to hospitality and receptiveness. Above all, the new resources could stagnate the artistic program with unmistakable benefits for fans all over the world. In the same way as these considerations, I consider it important for the Assembly to approve this draft law. I call on the Government and the entire Assembly to make their own the wishes, ambitions, efforts, sacrifices of a part of the country, which has so far been spent on the dignity of culture, including in the Mezzogiorno, so that it can have the opportunity, not only to survive, but also to improve all this, in favour of the entire national and international culture. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u14	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u15	Madam President, Verdi is a great man. I don't need to say it. It would be really ridiculous to now describe the reasons why this funding is important. I just want to make a point, which I don't think is accessory. Here are international festivals; it's about giving stable coverage to festivals that have an international dimension. Why didn't the Verdi Festival enter into Law 206 of 2012? Because at the time the Festival enjoyed special funding, linked to the Verdi celebrations. And it was only to avoid an overlap of funding that the Festival, at the time, was not included in the law. The final report of the Verdi celebration committee, signed by Senator Soliani, already showed very clearly. In other words, it was hoped that the Green Festival would be included in the stable financing given the international dimension. Verdi is the most performed musician abroad; Verdi is an ambassador not only of Italian music, but also of Italian language because one of the most relevant data is that the penetration of the Italian language also passes through opera books, to the point of forcing the singers to become not experts in the Italian language, but of the connoisseurs and to practice in a vocabulary that is not simple and in the diction. The Italian language courses for beautiful singing are active in all parts of the world and are certainly fed first of all by Verdi's booklets. Madam President, I have no intention of making a speech that celebrates the greatness of Greens and the importance of this funding, and I would rather take a few pebbles off my shoe. The story starts from far away. In 2013, exactly one year after the funding for the celebrations was over, a request was made, however supported: Senator D'Alì, who looks at me, remembers it well. We knew for sure that the stable financing of the Green Festival was provided for in the Single Fund for the show; in fact, one million was allocated to Greens in the FUS. We tabled an amendment (which is all in all the right instrument) to the law of stability, because it was not a question of establishing a principle through a law, but of integrating funding, in full recognition of the importance of these celebrations. The amendment was not adopted. The amendment was tabled by Senator Pagliari, who rightly asked that the first signature be his being a Senator of the territory. The amendment - I repeat - was not adopted. Always to remove pebbles from my shoes I remember that Senator Martelli, who was sitting next to me and who certainly inside my former Group is the one who expresses the greatest culture in the musical field, when my colleague Lezzi then expressed himself on the law of stability branding the request of the Festival as a marchetta (requested, however, failed, presented through our offices and signed also "by us" because I was in the 5 Star Movement at the time) jumped on the chair and I jumped with him. Moreover, defining the Green Festival in this way is indicative of cultural poverty that has no borders and of a cultural horizon so narrow that it makes you shudder: even if you think so, you would not dare to say so. The amendment did not pass and a lawsuit was opened with Senator Pagliari on the territory because he began to skip the first million fixed funding. The Municipality of Parma did not lose heart and continued to raise the difficult financial situation in which the theatre Regio had fallen. None of us lost heart and retabled the amendment to the Art bonus decree-law in May 2014, to the 2014 Stability Act, to the 2015 Stability Act, and we lost funding one year later. Therefore, EUR 3 million was lost for the financing of this important event. The Municipality of Parma, however, did not lose heart and continued to work believing in the value of its cultural proposal. The 2015 Stability Act also marked another curious moment, because even then the amendment was tabled by the undersigned. No one escapes that the mayor of Parma has been systematically, regularly, scientifically and repeatedly unsupported by the party of which he was a member. Consequently, since, despite the bell towering that often animates my colleagues from beyond the Val d'Enza and since they are from Reggio (for some of you this will mean little, but you know how strong bell towering is in Italy), in the name of a shared value (which I believe goes far beyond the territories of the Provinces), I have never missed my support (both for cultural interest, and for the value that unites us all) and my person always at the forefront for the promotion of the Italian language and culture abroad. So once again we presented this amendment, triggering reactions in the 5 Star Movement Group, especially that of the House (which even sent special envoys to the press conference that we had called to present the proposal). However, the amendment was not supported and was rejected. I would point out here that, appreciating the path of this bill that sees me signatory (among other things with Senator Pagliari) I will not miss, even when examining the next law of stability, to re-table the same amendment, since it can be discussed (even if it does not involve so many senators: surely even those who are not present in the Chamber know very well what the importance of the Green Festival is) and the financing there is; therefore I do not see why we could not make it immediate, starting from the next law of stability, and therefore give the City a guarantee. The mayor of the Municipality of Parma, moreover, precisely on the Verdi Festival and in particular on the Fondazione del Teatro Regio, has attracted to himself an attack that has gone even through the prosecutors, because Senator Pagliari presented an exhibition, later archived, precisely on the appointment of the new director of the Teatro Regio. In my profession this would be an "out of theme: vote 3, only for commitment." The route of the mayor of Parma made me understand something else very important: the fundamental aspect is not so much that the prosecutors do not investigate you, but that the prosecutors file any proceedings against you, because this means much more than not being investigated. It means that your work is examined and considered entirely legitimate. This is also the responsibility of an administrator who is again attacked by prosecutors this morning in the newspapers. But there's a judge in Berlin and they're not all Cortigians, the villainous race. There is a mayor in this country who continues to work, who has paid millions of debts, who today has not only raised the fate of the Teatro Regio but with his means and his forces has courageously continued to promote a culture that is not only local culture; there is also a mayor who has shown that he is able to transform, together with his excellent city councilors, a cultural value in economic value for the territory. In fact, the Teatro Regio not only incredibly increased the number of tickets torn, but there was a significant increase, with a strong spillover over the entire territory, of the influx of visitors, which was already constant. Now tourists come and talk about the welcome, because when tourists find an organized, systematic welcome and find satisfaction in all their requests (which are not only cultural, but also of other kind), miraculously expands the audience, miraculously tourists increase and here this mayor (I would like him to be my mayor and I would very willingly change) manages to operate in this sense. Not only that: this year also started an initiative, Verdi Off, that in the full spirit that brought that mayor to the government of that city does not just make Verdi the evening event in which to participate with the evening dress and the purse, but brings the Verdi culture to everyone, with an imprint that is the most in the strings of the teacher. In fact, the work is not a worldly event, but a great popular event: it was the instrument of sentimental education, culture, interest and aggregation of a people that is much wider than what goes to the Teatro Regio in the evening dress. This activity is recognized not only by citizens. This morning I was looking at this mayor's Facebook page (which was also attacked today in the newspapers for a sale that, among other things, had not been decided by him: but, I repeat, there is a judge in Berlin) and the comments are all of the following tenor: "Mayor, go ahead," "Mayor, I would like you in my city," "Mayor, you are consistent." This is the response of the citizens, but not only theirs, because in Parma the Verdi Off is also supported by a brilliant and praiseworthy initiative of industrialists, which is called "Parma," I'm there!" with a synergy that is the most useful for our country: the one that develops in the territories, that brings together both the will and popular support and the ability of those who have the economic availability and who responsibly put their face on initiatives that value the territory. This enhancement is not a brand, of course, but it is a sign, a symbol, an example: it is something that must be encouraged, it must be carried around, it must be followed and helped, because it can become a model and an example to follow. I believe that no one will vote against the bill concerning this Festival and I hope that this will also result in the adoption of an amendment that precedes and tries to avoid the shuttle that so sorry to Senator Marcucci. Senator Marcucci, this unpleasant shuttle that has pushed you to change the Constitution so radically we can avoid it immediately, because in the law of stability, which is about to be presented, you yourself could safely insert this amendment; and if you do not put it, we will, so we can prove that once again the shuttle is surpassable through an action, perhaps of the Government. Given that this bill also contains funding for the foundation Romaeuropa Art and Culture for the creation of the Romaeuropa Festival, I hope that today our former colleagues of the 5 Star Movement will not believe that this too is a marchetta. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and the Senators Berger and De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u16	Senator Giro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u17	Madam President, I would like to reassure my colleagues that they will have the patience to listen to us that we are not dealing with the financing of the "Pizzarotti Festival" in Parma: here we are talking about Verdi, not the controversy that divides 5 Stars in Parma, ex 5 Stars and the antagonistic left. We are talking about a Festival dedicated to a protagonist of national culture, perhaps the most accredited protagonist to claim our identity, our memory, our united tradition. So let's not talk about the festival of the mayor of Parma, but about the Festival of a foundation that should be autonomous and free to decide its own cultural program. If we in this House always lose hours and hours to say that the parties and their secretariats must remove their hands, hands or hands from the lyric bodies, then we must be consequent. So let's not lose ourselves in controversy, which are always the same. I believe that many Italians who voted that party in 2013 today have regretted, because if we have to turn every legislative initiative into a controversy between 5 Stars and ex 5 Stars, I think it is mortifying for them first of all that, perhaps, I think and imagine they were thinking of a season of change, of reform, of constructive proposal and not of continuous quarrels that must involve Chamber and Senate even when we deal with shared topics, voted together in the Commission. However, we remember here a commendable initiative, that of the Festival Verdi, which also involves the city of Busseto, precisely because in 2013 we also supported the centenary of the birth of Verdi economically there. I want to remind you that 2013 is an important date for opera, because, with an important amending work, we have converted into law the decree-law Bray No. 91 presented in August, which was - alas - yet another urgent intervention for the protection, the valorization and the revival of cultural assets. In this decree, as the members of my Commission will remember, there was a fundamental measure concerning the EUR 25 million committed to foundations that undertook to restructure their debt. I would like to recall this important legislative step, which involved the Senate in particular and the Commission chaired by my friend Andrea Marcucci, because it is necessary that these 14 - an exorbitant number - lyric-symphonic foundations have a virtuous attitude and behavior, otherwise the debt increases, is not restructured at all and the problems remain on the table. In this regard - I would like to remind especially my friends elected in Rome - from a newspaper certainly not suspect to be center-right, the Republic of Italy, we have learned that the Opera House, which seemed to have risen thanks to the enlightened guide of Carlo Fuortes (who is also a personal friend), is overtaken by 54 million euros of debts, increased in the last year by 10 million: from 44.4 million euros to over 54 million euros of debts. What do I want to report in this House? Attention, today we approve - and I have no difficulty in saying so - a measure even with the vote of Forza Italia, a leggina (the famous "reads of the last hour," as Senator Liuzzi said), to finance with a million euros the Verdi Festival of Parma and Busseto and the Romaeuropa Festival: two important initiatives, which I also know directly for having attended them and for having been among the public, which is increasingly enthusiastic and growing over time; they are initiatives of absolute quality, also at international level. But, my friends, we have the Single Fund for Performing Arts (FUS), which allocates almost EUR 500 million a year for culture and cultural activities, and half of this fund is allocated to lyrical-symphonic foundations. We are proud to have passed the Bondi law in 2010, amid a lot of controversy; it was, in fact, the only measure approved with a night session: in the five years of the legislature, the only night session was dedicated to the Bondi reform of the lyric-symphonic foundations, in which they were simply asked to tidy up the accounts; otherwise I believe that the state had the right and responsibility to curb the increasing disbursements intended for them. The State must be able to allocate its resources to foundations that deserve it and show that they can return from debt: this was the guiding principle. There has therefore been an intervention on the new employment contract, on debt restructuring, on the quality of artistic production, with a close dialogue, but true, with the union forces, which cannot be, they, master of the lyric bodies, but must be at the service of culture. The lyric institutions, in fact, receive - I remember - more than 200 million euros of Italians, which weigh on the general taxation. Money is not born from today to tomorrow: it is the result of taxation and I believe that the citizen has every right to see his resources managed in the best way, even by lyrical-symphonic foundations. We tend to make so much poetry in the parliamentary classrooms; I love and read poetry, but we also need to be concrete and realistic. Let's ask ourselves the question: are the lyric-symphonic foundations, which are envied by us from all over the world, managed in an authoritative way? Have the Bray reform and, even earlier, the Bondi reform achieved its goal or do we have to intervene continuously with laws, leggings and funding? One might even wonder: why was the Green Festival not funded? And how come the cover still falls on the FUS? How is this Single Show Fund managed? Do we want, lively God, to open a survey of how the Single Fund for Performing and Theatre, for lyrical and symphonic foundations has been managed in these twenty-thirty years or, ambiguously and subtly, do we begin with some measures, such as the Law on Cinema, to detach the various sectors of culture from the Single Fund? It is better to detach, then eliminate the FUS cinema and create a new national fund for film production and audiovisual production, of 400 million. So we have the "FUS 2 cinema," which we have also approved; but we need transparency on the funds that are being used. So, to answer Senator Mussini, she won't be a marchetta, maybe she's a marchettone. However, be careful, we are talking here about hundreds of millions of euros, in a situation where Europe still has to give us the green stamp for the law of stability. Maybe he'll give it to us, because we have a referendum! "We have the referendum!" and Senator Liuzzi is right, saying that between a referendum and the other we put these laws of spending, tips and tips for everyone, and then we say nothing. So let's do the serious people: the Commissions of merit also take charge of monitoring. Or are they just the usual letterhead commissions, since we now approve of everything that the government tells us? We try to start a serious confrontation also with the union forces and with all the professional associations, to find the best way to do things better, since the money is there or there would be and since it is public money. The Veltroni law (always Veltroni: guarantee fund for cinema, 1,000 billion of the old lire thrown out of the window for films never made, never seen, never produced, never made, and all these directors, large, medium and small, have all home in the historic center) on the lyric and symphonic institutions of 1996 has created 14 lyrical institutions; these are foundations of private law that have nothing private, but they have everything public (especially money). Here, we want to clarify these passages or we want to continue with decrees, decrees and decrees, that we convert immediately, in haste and fury, why can't we say no to national culture and our identity, since there is always the centenary in turn? I know that my speeches are almost paradoxical, because then I will have to announce myself, in a few hours, the vote in favour. The vote will be in favour, however, provided that there is clarity once and for all on the foundations' accounts, because we have the live entertainment law, which we have deleted (because the government also demanded a delegation) and which will have to return to Parliament. Then let Parliament do its duty. Therefore, in a whirlwind of dignity, we try to follow these steps, since culture, cultural heritage, cultural, historical, artistic, monumental and landscape heritage are the fundamental resource and since a euro invested in culture produces 7 euros; we try to be consequent and to do our duty to the full. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u18	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u19	Madam President, I will say straight away that I am not a member of the Commission for Public Education, Cultural Heritage and that therefore some of the issues that have been dealt with in this House escape me from their actual roots, from the legislative point of view and also from the point of view of the dynamics of certain sectors. I believe that this measure enhances, recognizes and amplifies two institutions that, in a different way, are part of the Italian cultural heritage. Of course, on the Verdi Festival, I think there are few words to spend on the value of Verdi's heritage, but also on the strength of Verdi as a vehicle for culture, identity and Italian language. I would like to stress one point, because I have listened to some rather paradoxical considerations. The measure under consideration confirms the line and political direction of the Government and the majority to put culture at the centre of public policies as a vehicle of civil growth, identity and inclusion, but also as a bridge with other cultures. The bill confirms the objectivity of this policy, since - I had not even realized it and Senator Mussini highlighted it in her speech - the two interventions in question concern institutions located in municipalities administered by mayors belonging to the 5 Star Movement. This confirms the absolute impartiality of the choice of the majority, in the sense that, wherever an institution worthy of consideration appears, it is financed at national level. Therefore, I must say that the exploitation in terms of confrontation within the 5 Star Movement is something truly painful, because one cannot bend culture to the clash between Pizzarotti and others or believe that the financing at the Romeeuropa Festival is a recognition to the mayor Rays. I would like to point out that, with regard to this initiative, the 5 Star Movement did not have any promotional role. Evidently, it is inattentive to the needs of culture in Rome, just as it is to those of the rest of the territory, obviously not being the priority of this movement the politics in favor of culture. Montevecchi (M5S). What are you talking about? LANZILLOTTA (PD). I say what I'm saying and please don't interrupt me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Montevecchi, allow Senator Lanzillotta to express her opinion, as is normal and legitimate in this House. Montevecchi (M5S). You can't say that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Lanzillotta. LANZILLOTTA (PD). I say this because I have felt really uncomfortable listening to considerations that identify this measure as an instrument of political struggle. On the other hand, with regard to the question of the relationship between individual legislative measures and the Stability Act, I would like to point out that this law is not the right place to provide individual appropriations for individual initiatives. The law of stability is not a Christmas tree, because it must provide resources which, in the course of the year, will then be used by Parliament, with specific legislative initiatives - which are in the readiness of the Commission for public education, cultural goods - to use and allocate. Therefore, the fact that some amendments tabled to the Stability Act have not been transposed, even though they deserve attention in their content, does not detract from the interest in those initiatives that the majority had in any case, because - I repeat - the Stability Act is not the instrument for providing microfinance for individual institutions. Finally, I would like to focus briefly on the value of funding at the Romaeuropa Festival, which - I think - enters for the first time into legislation to support cultural initiatives. I want to focus on this issue because over the years the Festival Romaeuropa has become, for the city of Rome, a reference point for contemporary culture and for the aggregation of European cultures. Indeed, as President Marcucci said, the event is supported by a very large number of European embassies that, through the Romeeuropa Festival, convey the contemporary cultural experiences of their countries, making it a place of mutual knowledge of European cultures. The festival has also become a place of aggregation for young people, who find the expression of their contemporaryness in a dedicated Festival, in its various events (from theatre, music, ballet) exactly to this and the contamination between culture and new technologies, which represents the future of cultural expressions. I therefore believe that this initiative has been promoted by people of culture who have had the vision of how European identity should be based primarily on its culture, because that is the origin of our unity and the ground in which Europe's unity can be revived and strengthened. For this reason, I believe that this measure deserves the utmost attention and support from Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u20	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u21	As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in her reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly I would like to thank the 7th Commission and the rapporteur for this draft law, which goes exactly in the direction desired by the Government, namely that of "using" culture as a weapon against a sense of identity disintegration that is going through Europe and therefore also our country. However, I believe that the demands of my colleagues, Senator Liuzzi and Senator Giro should be considered very carefully. It is true that in Italy there are many initiatives worthy of support and it is also true that there is a problem related to ordinary activity, both musical and theatrical, which still suffers from the lack of resources. It is also true that the criteria for the distribution of public funds must be the subject of in-depth attention by this Ministry through a new decree. We are perfectly aware of all this and I believe that in a frank dialectic that is meant to underline the principles of transparency and effectiveness, we will be able to achieve a result towards which is our Ministry that this Government wants to aim. Very briefly, I would like to add that perhaps many people have wondered why we did not have a festival dedicated to Verdi. It is very difficult to think that a country like Italy does not have a Green Festival, beyond the celebrations and anniversaries. In fact, it is clear that if we talk about ambassadors of our culture, not only musical, in the first place we can only find Giuseppe Verdi. It is equally clear, as far as the Festivaleuropa is concerned, that the Festival has bridged the way for the major European cultural institutions. This tired and tired Europe, which struggles to regain its cultural and identity roots, must be able to do so through the language of culture. This is the meaning of the Creative Europe programme, this is the meaning of the actions of the European institutions and I think that in this sense we also support today a line that is also shared by other European countries and that must remain a primary line in the action of the European institutions and consequently of the Italian ones. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u23	To enable the 5th Commission to meet to express its opinion on the three measures we are debating today, I suspend the sitting until 11.45 p.m. The 5th Commission is therefore authorised to convene immediately. (The sitting was suspended at 10.30 a.m. and resumed at 11.46 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u24	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u25	Mr President, I am against Amendment No 1,100, but I call for Amendment No 1,101 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u26	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u27	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u28	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u29	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u30	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the students and teachers of the Liceo Scientifico (scientific high school) Amedeo Avogadro in Rome, who would have had to attend our work if the session had not been suspended. [[Applause.]] I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.50 a.m. and resumed at 12.10 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u31	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100. Verification of the telephone number COMAROLI (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the draft law n. 1375 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. It's not approved. On Amendment 1,101 a call for withdrawal was made by the rapporteur. Do you welcome him, Senator Liuzzi? LIUZZI (CoR). No, Mr President, I would ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,101. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,101 tabled by Senator Liuzzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,100 is therefore excluded. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u34	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, we regret the fact that the Government and the majority have not accepted our courteous suggestion to include in the measure, concerning the Verdi Festival and the Rome Festival, also the Valle d'Itria Festival. We urged, in essence, a social and cultural equalization; we called for - and we still urge - a willingness on the part of the Government to glimpse also in the virtuous initiatives produced in the South something that could contribute to the total growth of the entire nation from the cultural and social point of view. We want to bring to the attention of this House the efforts of an organization that for forty-two years has contributed to making that Festival a spearhead of which the entire Apulian economic, social and cultural system boasts. [[Applause from Senator Perrone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u37	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, I believe that what we are going to approve - regardless of some of our colleagues who have spoken of pebbles or marcettes - is a due act and has taken place at the right time. It is right that an international festival should be dedicated to Verdi. It was from Busseto and, therefore, Parma can only organize it. We are deeply convinced that, beyond the celebrations for the centenary of his death in 2001, and for the bicentenary of his birth, the great commitment to this international Festival is correct, as Senator Pagliari rightly said, which is from those places. How correct is the reference made by Senator Giro to the Bondi law, which has worked well and which, in fact, is now recognized as a law necessary to give order to lyric-symphonic foundations. We also believe that the commitment dedicated to the Romeeuropa Festival, which is one of the most prestigious events in Italy and Europe, to the promotion and dissemination of art, theatre, dance and contemporary music, is right. We do not go any further, because we share the bill and congratulate both the rapporteur and the President of the 7th Commission because, at the right time, these two important recognitions to Italian culture in the world have arrived. I remember that Verdi's lyrics can only be exclaimed in Italian. And, therefore, another instrument is added to the diffusion of the Italian language in the world, alongside that of a great Pope who recites all his homilies in the world in Italian. This is nothing but a hymn to our language, to our beloved language and, as a Tuscan, I can only rejoice at what has been done. Mr President, I would like to make one final point. After the Bataklan Theatre massacre in Paris, our President-in-Office said that we needed to react to terror with more theatres and culture. Today, we, as Parliament, are responding with this tangible sign to the commitment made by the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u40	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, the vote on this draft law will also be in favour of us, because we believe that the Green Festival is one of the most important in our national territory. It is a world-renowned festival, not only by lovers and proponents of the Master, but also by those who know him to a lesser extent. It is, therefore, an event that not only concerns, as someone may think, the city of Parma and the territory of the Province of Parma, but also Italy as a whole. What, however, puzzles us, as always, is the fact that - alas - culture is being used (as we see now with this measure, but also with the other two on the agenda) to make melina. Given and considering that we do not know what to do to make a living and that something must be examined and approved in this House, pending 4 December, then we throw into the Green Festival. We believe that culture deserves a little more attention and respect from politics, which only uses it when it is needed, when it has to be seen and, as in this case, when it has to cover holes. So, despite our vote in favour, we stigmatize majority and government. We do not approve of the measure because Renzi made his exit after the events of the Bataclan. We approve of this because the Festival is important and will go beyond this Parliament, this majority and this chatty President of the Council. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We do not use culture to make political propaganda when it is not necessary and inappropriate. Our vote is in favour of the Festival, all the volunteers and those who work every year to make it more and more important and more successful. Alas, dear promoters of the Festival that you watch from outside, it is carried on in a moment to make the melina. Take note of that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u43	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, my explanation of vote may be very brief if I just say that we will vote in favour of the draft law under consideration, but I believe that we need to make some clarification after what has been said in the general debate. The clarification focuses first of all on the criticisms I have made that I would have made a political speech. Culture is political and politics has a strong cultural component, as has been said by those who have just preceded me. In any case, mine is also a tribute to the Master, because Verdi was a man of great interest in politics and who personally committed himself, having also been the recipient of an elective mandate. Verdi knew well that through music and the work is made political. He was a convinced anticlerical, a convinced man of the Risorgimento and this expressed him in his works. I know it's politics in here, because we're here to do this. I do politics, not with people exposed to prosecutors, but in suitable venues like this one. And here it is right to tell the truth about a path that - as has been pointed out - also had a course of its own political nature. On the other hand, an operation of truth is necessary compared to those who listen to us and those who - as Senator Centinario recalled - supported the Festival while the millions of funding were late to arrive and did not arrive. If in 2013 the spectators were 14.661, in 2016 they were 21.449. If in 2015 the total income was 707.000 euros, today it is 1.270.000 euros. This is the truth and it must be said because it is not only a cultural fact, but also a political and administrative one. And I think it's fair to say it. And, because of the fact that I am not from Parma, I cannot be accused of making a policy of a bell towering nature. I want to take a line from Verdi: "To banish every petty city idea! We must all strive for a fraternal hand, and Italy will again become the first nation in the world, to make it clear that this is the meaning of the intervention I have made and that it aims to show how the money and the tools made available with the art bonus can be widely used. To support the Festival, a fundraising activity has been put in place that has led the theatre to the first place in the ranking of traditional theatres for the collection through the art bonus. It is an intense activity that has to do with political choices on the basis of principles are not only cultural, but also political. And this is the place to talk about it. I sincerely do not accept the hypocrisy of those who say: today we are talking about Verdi, we are talking about the Master. Yes, today we are talking about Verdi, we are talking about the Master, but we are also talking about an Italy that needs a lot of things, much more than what is being done. Today we are talking about a country that, if it wants to maintain or confirm a primacy, must make this as many other choices that hypocritically, instead, are left in the shadows. I would also like to make one point: Senator Lanzillotta said that the amendments were not tabled to the Stability Act. I would like to point out to Senator Lanzillotta that, apart from the fact that the proposal had also been made in the examination of the decree on the so-called art bonus (worthy location), those amendments have never received the contrary opinion of the Committee on Budgets either as inadmissible or as inadmissible. Try to decide, then, Senator Tonini: because if there are rules, then they must be made clear; otherwise, if the rules are different for Guy, Caius and Sempronio, we must say so, in order to orient ourselves to a better use of the law of stability. Otherwise, we're all responsible. In any case, I would like to point out that the most appropriate measure would have been the measure on 'art bonus, approved in 2014 with confidence, and therefore without being allowed to include this proposal, and this made the Festival lose another 2 million euros. In conclusion, I do not want to reopen the speech that revolves around the story of the Festival of Rome and that sad event that took place in the Budget Committee during the examination of the law of stability last year, when neither was approved, nor the other amendment, with truly ridiculous stunts and with attributions of responsibility towards those who were in opposition. I remember, however, that out of 30 Commissioners 22 were of the majority and, therefore, they could easily have adopted those proposals. They are not polemics: it is the truth and it is right that we know. Everyone should know how we're working. With this I repeat the vote in favour of the entire Mixed Group on the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u44	I address, on behalf of the Assembly, a greeting to a delegation of the National Association between the mutilated and disabled of war in Vasto, represented by the ladies who are attending our work in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u47	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to announce the vote in favour of the People's Area with cultural reasons, i.e. referring to the validity of this Festival, which has reached a great international importance and is distinguished by the multiplicity of proposals that are put on the cartel each year. In addition to the shows are to be emphasized the studies and the activities of research and training, the congress initiatives involving public and private institutions and the search for young talents. Today we can also express a judgment on the program of the Festival 2016, currently underway, which presents a dense calendar of shows, concerts, meetings and study days, which takes place in historical places linked to the great musician, such as the Teatro Regio of Parma and the Teatro Giuseppe Verdi of Busseto, to which from this year and for the next three years the Farnese Theatre is joined, a place of monumental beauty, regained to the theatrical use thanks to a convention signed with the Museum Pole of Emilia-Romagna, which the Festival offers to the creativity of the great masters of international direction for a difficult challenge: the setting up of a work of Verdi that values the limits that the preservation of the museum space imposes; a real challenge that makes a leap of quality to the Festival also from the point of view of innovation. The second intervention is in favour of Romaeuropa Festival, organized by the homonymous foundation, one of the most prestigious institutions in Italy, which offers a rich program of shows whose protagonists are contemporary dance, contemporary theatre, music and cinema. Ample space is reserved for young people who find a showcase of great importance: innovation and experimentation are the constant of all appointments. Although it is not very ancient - it has about thirty editions behind - Romaeuropa Festival is now recognized as the most important Italian festival able to present the best of contemporary artistic creation and boasts an audience of faithful to which new spectators are added every year exercising a strong appeal also on foreign ones. Both programming, although with different characteristics, have a significant international connotation and therefore constitute instruments of great importance to disseminate the knowledge of the places that host them and to support and nourish the revival and valorization of our territory through synergies and coordinated efforts, with important positive effects on the economic activity of tourism. It affirms the principle, therefore, of cultural activities as a driving force for the economy of our country. The financial intervention in support of these two programmings is entirely justified, and we do not believe it to be a regalia to this or that administrator, as it seems to have taken from some interventions during the general discussion. It is the right recognition and support for a high-profile initiative, which is necessary at a time when private intervention in favour of cultural initiatives is more difficult, and useful to provide certainty of the resources available. In this regard, I would like to make the proposal - and I call on the Undersecretary Borletti Dell'Acqua - to evaluate the extension of the application of the rule of art bonus also to cultural initiatives as well as to the recovery of monumental assets. The People's Area vote, as announced, will be in favour. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u50	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I speak only to announce the convincingly favourable vote of the Autonomous Group, Socialist Party and MAIE on a measure that recovers a delay in carrying out a permanent initiative that enhances the artistic and intellectual production of a great Italian, which has been and is a reference point for those who love our country not only for its positive food and wine characteristics, but also for the permanent contribution it has made to the world of art and music over the centuries. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u53	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are very pleased that the first reading of this important bill is being concluded, which recognises structural funding for two Festivals, the Verdi di Busseto and Romaeuropa, of undoubted cultural value and, as far as the Greens are concerned, of indisputable value for the valorization and promotion of our culture in the world through the stimulus to get closer to our beautiful Italian language. I am also personally happy for two reasons: firstly, because I had the pleasure of personally attending performances at the Verdi Festival and I was able to see their quality, as well as having been able to drink of the beauty of the small theatre that hosts them, a jewel of incomparable value; secondly, I was lucky enough to be born in a family that gave the opera one of its most appreciated voices and performers in the 1930s and 1940s, and that transmitted me from an early age interest and love for fine song, Pia Tassinari. Is that a good provision? Yes. Could it have been improved? In our opinion, yes, for example, by accepting the amendment, at the first signature of Senator Blundo, who asked to introduce on the list of beneficiaries of the contribution also the Festival Donizetti Opera of Bergamo and the Bellini Festival of Catania, in order to make a network to better concert strategies aimed at enhancing and promoting our significant musical heritage; and to increase the resources allocated to this operation. Networking is so important and so difficult in Italy in many areas of the life of our community. We are talking about resources: scarce resources - in our opinion - that have been thinned and that continue not to be additional; resources that go to draw on the Single Fund for the show, which has been the subject of a recent reform, much disputed because of an evil algorithm that has sanctioned the closure and put in danger the life of many cultural realities; a reform that is also the subject of a ruling by the regional administrative court (if I am not mistaken, the sentence is expected for 23 October). And the FUS is waiting for an ad hoc measure by the Government and Minister Franceschini who represents it, following the deletion of Article 34 of the provision governing cinema and audiovisual. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the measure on the Romaeuropa Festival and the Verdi Festival does not exhaust what the Government is called upon to do to heal the crisis situation in which theatre and dance still lie in Italy, which are still waiting for the slogans to be translated into concrete on several occasions. And I also take this opportunity to reiterate that we are waiting for the ad hoc decree that Franceschini promised us. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to draw the House's attention to the serious situation in which our lyrical-symphonic foundations are still in place, despite the fact that the Bray Act provided for a rehabilitation process. I am referring in particular to what is happening at the Arena Foundation in Verona. Local newspapers are dealing extensively with this issue, but little is known and read in national newspapers about what is happening as a result of the recovery plan, which sees the impairment of many jobs. I therefore draw the attention of the Government and of the Undersecretary Borletti Dell'Acqua, particularly sensitive to these issues, so that the situation of the Arena of Verona will be seriously handled and political interference will not be allowed, as has happened recently (and not only recently, but also before the Tosi Council). Finally, I would like to reply to Senator Lanzillotta, who says that the 5 Star Movement is not present on the themes of culture. I am sorry that Senator Lanzillotta, who is so interested in the fate of this measure, is not now here to vote on it. Your colleagues will remind you that, if an amendment has been included in the cultural value decree that provides for the verification of the anatomical interests paid by foundations in banking relations between them and credit institutions for the assignments, if this verification, sacrosanct and necessary in the context of the renegotiation of their debt, has been introduced, it has been thanks to an amendment proposed by the 5 Star Movement when examining the relevant bill of conversion. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Similarly, many of our other amendments have been accepted in the cultural value decree to assign space to young artists. These are amendments which have recently been implemented with ministerial decrees, which have stated that these areas are for the benefit of young people at reduced rates. And it was possible thanks to the 5 Star Movement. It is thanks to the 5 Star Movement that in this legislature the map of abandonment has been made: a cognitive investigation that urges the Government and local institutions to achieve an organic mapping of our abandoned and degraded places of culture, and then to start an overall project of recovery and planned destination, through functional programs. It was thanks to the 5 Star Movement that a conference on industrial archaeology and the need to recover abandoned industrial areas was organized within the Parliament institution, in conjunction with the examination in 10a. Commission of a bill for the recovery of disused industrial areas. The 5 Star Movement has tabled amendments and some of them are very much appreciated by the first signatory of the bill, the Senator of the Democratic Party Camilla Fabbri. One of these amendments provides for the recovery of certain buildings, after an appropriate diagnosis, so that they may be intended for schools, research centres and hubs for innovative start-ups. And finally, if in the art bonus we have come to a regulation that has foreseen the establishment of a portal and the systemic introduction of the practice of crowdfunding and fundraising in this country was also thanks to the work that the 5 Star Movement has carried out not only in the front line, but also in the rearguards within the Ministry, to promote this type of practices, then merged into the art bonus. So tell Senator Lanzillotta. Senator Lanzillotta evaluates the world by looking only in her small garden in person that has never been present in the Commission public education, cultural heritage on the themes of culture. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Caleo]] And we have not seen any other senators present in the Commission during the examination of the measure on the Verdi Festival in Parma, senators who want to name the battle for this Festival and who have not had the pleasure to see in the Commission. But I thank Senator Lanzillotta, because she said something real. Law No 196 of 2009 provides for the exclusion by law of micro-sectoral interventions. Everyone should be made inadmissible, because the budget law is programmatic and, therefore, in that place, it was necessary to provide for a single fund to be allocated to all festivals and then refer to subsequent management of the programming of the funds, because the risk - as happens in this law - is that perhaps the funds will prove insufficient. Despite this and despite the criticalities, for all the reasons that I have listed the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of this bill, because it is not said that the 5 Star Movement uses the bill for political purposes and because it is said that the 5 Star Movement has at heart culture and is committed to culture. Those who have had the pleasure of confronting themselves also at institutional level with the members of the Commission for Public Education, Cultural Heritage of the Senate and the Committee for Culture of the House know that the 5 Star Movement is there. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u54	We greet teachers and students of the Scuola Medio Statale (San Giovanni Bosco-Summa Villa) in Somma Vesuviana, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u57	GIRO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will be brief, because we have had the opportunity to explain our position with great transparency and clarity. I hope that the approval - and I am voting in favour of my Group - of this measure will also represent a positive call to the Government and the Commissions of merit to put a hand once and for all on a very controversial subject, particularly opaque and full of mischief that has demanded - and we have seen it in today's debate - many decrees. In fact, the word decree is the most evoked (implementation decree, legislative decree, ministerial decree). In fact, there is no framework legislation; or rather, we have framework legislation, but it has produced only failures and has dispensed money in an absolutely uncriterious way, with regard to both lyric and lyrical-symphonic foundations as well as traditional theatres, which have been considered as foundations or lyrical entities of minor series. We absolutely must insist with the Government and we have an opportunity to do so, because we will soon have to face an important legislative step, having voted in this House a few days ago the deletion of the delegation entrusted to the Government on live entertainment. So let us try to do - as I said earlier - our duty to the full and above all try to finally open up once and for all the doors of this important sector of national culture, which we boast all over the world and which the world envys us, to private individuals. Let's open the doors to private people, private resources. It is true: in the past years we have approved the so-called art bonus, i.e. the tax credit of 65% on the amount donated for the redevelopment of the cultural heritage. We can multiply the initiatives aimed at supporting a sector that is in crisis - as we have seen - and that is overwhelmed by millions of debts, giving a chance to the private sector. But the private intervenes if there is a clear framework and system of relationships of mutual loyalty, where one knows who does what and not where one asks and claims only, while the private has to limit itself to providing in a unique way, without participating in the construction of a project. I have always in mind the paradoxical story of Diego Della Valle who, after many judicial disputes, managed to give the State 25, 30 million euros for the complete restoration of the Colosseum, an extraordinary monument, perhaps the most visited in Italy. And yet, we struggled so hard and were attacked for it. And now what has been done has become an imitated model in all the measures that the Government is adopting and in different areas. We try to be consistent and to start a path, continuing it to the end, otherwise it is right who preceded me, saying that it is only extemporaneous and rainy interventions, laws and leggings approved quickly and fury by the House and Senate in moments of pause like what we are living. The great referendum on 4 December seems, in fact, to have blocked and frozen the parliamentary activity and, therefore, we treated yesterday the cinema, today the opera, tomorrow, perhaps, the situation of the young geologists who have been waiting for an answer for a long time and the day after tomorrow who knows what. These are subjects that deserve further study, a comparison in the merit committees and the time required. They are also positive measures, but they are approved quickly and furiously, without the necessary reflections and assessments of merit. I therefore vote in favour of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, despite all the concerns that I have tried to explain in the general debate. We are given the opportunity to rewrite the legislation together, especially in the parliamentary committees, and Parliament still has its own value. In the next referendum we will vote on overcoming the bicameralism of equality: I wonder and wonder where is bicameralism, because Chamber and Senate are completely overtaken by a pervasive and omnivorous government, which no longer distinguishes executive power from legislative power and which asks, imposes and does everything. On this subject, too, we had put forward a very detailed proposal on the substance and, in this case too, we had the shortcut and the agreement signed quickly and furiously. So let's try to slow down and seize the opportunity to rewrite a framework law on live performance, which will see us engaged in the coming months in a shared way, involving the merit committees of Chamber and Senate, who still have a lot to say and do about it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u60	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, the almost unanimous consensus that we see on this draft law is obviously the most significant sign of the fact that, with its presentation, I wanted to put at the centre of attention a demonstration that deserves to be national and international. I thank the Senate for its attention and recognition, of which I understand the full meaning, and that is the mandate given to Parma to make the Verdi Festival of Parma and Busseto what it really can be, that is, an international event with positive repercussions for the whole country. The recognition and funding that are given will certainly be the basis for achieving such a result, through a design that must be ambitious and perspective, aimed at an organization, an approach and a project of the Green Festival that can so really have the international dimension that it does not have today. As a Parmesan I really thank with emotion and - I repeat - I know that this recognition involves a mission that we Parmesan will try to follow. I would like to thank the Committee on Culture and the President of the Group. I thank the Premier and, above all, Minister Franceschini, whose work has helped to bring this bill to fruition. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u61	We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u64	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the order of business to be reversed in order to give priority to the bill No 2342 relating to the Gramsci House of Museum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Does anyone want to speak for or against this proposal?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u67	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I do not agree with Mr Arrigoni's proposal and I would ask that the agenda be respected.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u68	Colleagues, in the face of opposition, we proceed to the vote on the proposal to reverse the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u69	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u70	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 13.13 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.53 p.m. and resumed at 13.13 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u73	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to point out to you that it will also be impossible to develop the speeches at the end of the sitting by providing that there will again be a lack of quorum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is This, however, cannot become an intervention on the Senate's work. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). In the afternoon... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] If you will excuse me, the preventive complaints must end in this House. Is that clear? [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti. Comments from the PD Group]] The agenda for the afternoon sitting is to answer questions, but the problem is that the Government does not answer questions and questions. I have in fact repeatedly presented them together with my colleague Gasparri, on the shipwrecks of the boat of April 2015, on the recovery of the bodies and the relative expenses, to ask for an operation of truth about what is happening. We saw that last Tuesday, the Undersecretary of State for the Interior, Manzione, and Prefect Piscitelli held a press conference in Syracuse, giving random numbers (1,000, 500, 100), without clarifying whether they were buried or not if they will do autopsies, without coming to Parliament to answer. I would therefore like to understand why the Government does not come to Parliament to answer the questions of the senators and, on the same subject, goes to make press conferences that do not clarify anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u74	I agree, Mr President. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). I therefore ask the President to take responsibility for urging the Government to respond in Parliament - as is his duty - since he has time to go to press conferences around Italy. The government's reference point is Parliament, it's the people, and it's not the press conferences.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u75	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for a reversal of the agenda, which was previously put forward by Senator Arrigoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u76	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u77	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, I'll take the session off.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-705.ana.u78	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.15 a.m.
